02 - Mind In The Worlds Of Existence Existing and living, we know the cross-material world. For us, it's only one-third of the surface of our planet. The rest is water. Very small indeed. At least for the orthodox science today, it became very small. So, this is a world of existence in which we can study phenomena of life. Billions and billions and billions. Start from the Amoeba, the world, everything are all phenomena of life. Having a cross-material body. What do we study? That all these phenomena of life obey to certain rules and laws. Therefore, there must be the lawyer and the one who is ruling these things. And what are these rules of the cross-material world? Nothing can exist in the cross-material world unless it has a form. And a cross-material body in that form. Which form? Billions and billions and billions and billions of forms. Do you see billions of phenomena of life all around us? We can study. In the mineral kingdom, the crystals, metals. In the vegetable kingdom, in the animal kingdom. There are so many, many things to study and reach to our conclusion that definitely behind every phenomena of life is a super-intelligence beyond our comprehension which is almighty keeping that and any of these phenomena of life in the circle of existence and possibility. Nothing can escape from that circle of possibilities. We can study also the probabilities, many probabilities in a definite circle of possibilities for every existing being. These are the laws of the cross-material world. Now, what the mystics can find also beyond this knowledge of the cross-material world entering, not consciously, but self-consciously in this cross-material world they will find there the same law. Phenomena of life. Of life continuing their life from the cross- material world there. Or even phenomena of life only in the psychical world. Again, they must have a form to exist. A form dressed up with the substance of that plane as the forms are material and the cross-material plane. Now, can you trace God there? More easily. Now, I have some just experience which I tell you later. Now, entering in the nautical world more light, it's full of light. There matter is emanating light. We are in the world of the light in the nautical world. There to exist also one should have a form. Different form for us human beings. No, exactly our human form and each one with his characteristics. Seeing George and John there, you will understand that it's there. Even if I have a sun on their face or something, you will see it there. All the characteristics are there. But you see now, that form more luminous. More lovely, more beautiful. There is nothing which is ugly in the nautical world. In the nautical, going there. There is a form there, but in different sense is the form there. Then you can see the soul- spirit form. What you call a spirit body, which is a body and it isn't a body also. Why it is and it isn't? Because to see a form in the lower world, in the gross material world, you will find it in its course of existence in time. Starts from the sperm also, growing, growing, growing, growing, growing. If you complete the circle of possibilities, then going on. So you see the human form in the gross material body continuously changing. But still the sum total of everything is you. You say, yes, if you have photos, you say how nice I was when I was 20 years old. Now I am grown up with wrinkles on my face, like that. Everything is in your circle of possibilities and existence. So it is how you see a human being in the gross material world. In the world of continuous change. Now in the psychical world, you go there in the psychical world. Usually those who go in the psychical world and you contact them, you see them younger. Because they want to look younger. And so the psychical substance of their form is more under the influence of what they like and of their thoughts. Conducting self- consciousness to people in the astral plane who have departed, you see them much younger and beautiful. And they prefer a certain age. And they can remain in that age for a long, long, longer time, but not forever. So what you call the course in time of the circle of existence there, changes completely, not in form, but in appearance. Because the form is there. In all its course. But you have the appearance which you like. The same in the nautical world. Provided you are permitted to have that. And who is not permitting us to have the appearance we want to have and we like? We are just in the way we are living. In your shell, if you are in a shell, it's not easy just to influence your appearance. You see an old man there, he's having his money. You can enter in his shell and see him in the age. It's an old man just counting his money. So there are conditions there which you need to study. And conditions in life, in the psychical world, are not the same as the conditions in life of the cross-material world. And the difficulty for those who are in the cross-material world is to accommodate themselves with the new conditions of life of the psychical plane. And they need training. And there are people who are training souls, personalities, souls going there to see things in a different way as they are and not in the way they used to see things on the cross-material plane. For example, I am one of these teachers to those departing from the material plane. To go from here with cross-material body, somewhere you will go step by step, step by step, walking. And order by bicycle, by car, by an aeroplane to move yourself on the cross-material world. Now, are there cars, railways, and all these things in the psychical world? In the psychical world, generally, no. But in the shell-hells of people, everything existing on the material world is there. You can see entering in their shell-hell or shell-paradise all these things which they carry from here as their impression and their knowledge. But you laugh, as you live in your own world. In your world, it's what you have understood, what you have taken from the cross-material. But in the psychical world, it's all light and beauty. But who can see it? There is light and beauty on our cross-material world certain hours of the day. Who is observing this beauty and this light and everything? Living all the time in their own thoughts and emotions and interests in life. So things are not changing immediately. But I am telling you, the psychical world is much, much better than the cross-material world. It is as if going out of a dungeon to the open country. Now, things there have longer life. Just as you have a nice flower, for how long that will last? How long? A few hours? Days? The maximum. And then? So, the law on the cross-material body, on the cross-material world, is continuous change and decay. In the psychical world, no. Things have longer, much longer life. I had an experience, which I am telling you my own. I was seven years of age. Being self-conscious in the psychical plane as I was in the cross-material plane. I had a friend there, a Dominican monk. He had shown me to a very nice place, there in the psychical world, a kind of monastery. A long, long, very nice hall. He said, it is your place if you come here to stay. You have the right. Just a stained glass there. Beautiful things. I have seen them in Europe, on churches. At that time I didn't see any of these things on the cross-material body. A nice, comfortable bed and a crucifix. And an altar. Because they know the crucifix there. And the altar. In the altar were very lovely Madonna lilies. Smelling. The sense of smelling, you have it there perfectly. You don't have it on the material plane. So nice. And I told him, look here, can I have just one of these and put it on the altar? I was seven years of age. Eight, maybe. Of course, with his thought, because everything is created by thought there. He presented me a nice vase. Emerald color vase. With water. Why he did it? Because these were the things I knew. From the cross- material world. I got one, they placed it there. Just in front of the crucifix. It is the rare, now fresh, yet. And the other day I told him, what stupidity, why did I have to cut it and put it there and not offer it to him being there. He said, oh, that was what you wanted. So things are not decaying in the psychical plane. The genetical plane. They endure longer time. Which means that the mind as thought is not creating and not sustaining things we like on the cross-material world as you can do them in the psychical and genetical world. But you have to live self-consciously there. But are people living on the cross-material world now living self-consciously? No. I am telling you, 80% of people living all over the world in the civilized countries and everywhere, they are not living self-consciously. They are living, yes, consciously, not self-consciously. They didn't reach, how do you say, self-realization to know what they are. Know what they are as what? Mary, church. No, that's not our real self. That's our time and place self in the cross-material body. As soul, spirit beings. Because in reality, our real self is not our appearance in the course, in our course, in time around the circle of possibilities of a human being and of course our own way to cover this circle of possibilities on the earth plane. What am I aiming at now? To understand who you are. You are not what you think you appear. A little boy, an infant, an adult, a middle-aged man, an old man. We are not all that. All that is our course in what we call in our circles of existence and possibilities. Then what we are? What is really our appearance? Now try to understand what I say now. In the noetic world, we are all that. To are able to be and feel all that and stick to what we like best. You are the circle of your possibilities. And you feel a great joy being everything of what you have existed. Not only in the cross-material world, also in the psychical and the noetical world. That is what you call perfect life. As a human being. You are human form, not in changing of appearance, but feeling everything in you. Everything is added to you, because you are in the kingdom of the heavens. That is why I said, it is a form and it isn't a form. The so-called spirit body. What are the characteristics of our spirit body? First of all, the spirit body is incorruptible. Everlasting. Just not that. It is incorruptible. How can we create it? We have it already in us, in all our bodies. We never created it. It existed. It is. And this is why the holy archangels take it as sustaining your body. Just to go through the circle of your possibilities. You say to me, did you ever come in contact with your spirit soul body? I am telling you yes. If I say no, I would be a liar. What do you feel there? Please. You feel one, at least with my most beloved one, Joshua Manuel de Christ. Not with God. And with God. But I don't want to leave him. I don't want to leave my human form. Not body. The body is something different. He had honored the human form. It is in him. We are all of us in him. Which means, can you be in any body, considering him your own self? Yes, I can. But it is difficult to explain what it is. It is what he was feeling as a human being. Saying, Father, they are me. I am they. How they are in me? Word of separateness, not knowing that. And why you have forsaken me in them? Since I am in them. There is just a mistake in the gospel. Joshua Manuel de Christ, I heard it myself, didn't say, where there are two or three, I am with them. He added something more. Where there are two or three in my name, my name means in my own nature, feeling who I am in them. He says, where there are two or three in my name, I am in them and with them. I am in them as spirit, soul beings. They are part of myself. And I am with them also as human beings around them. There are two different states, being in and with, which they confuse them, everything, those who translated the Bible. Where there are two or three in my name, in my nature, I am in them and with them as human beings. That means entering in what we call the oneness of the absolute infinite being. Now, we said much. I will answer to a question. Marriage between two people, a male and a female person, is marriage, don't call it marriage, is the union of two people, a male and a female. Sacred? Yes, it is. And binding? That depends. To what? Now, a male and a female person on the planet now can become, both of them, co-creators with the absolute infinite beingness in prolonging life, giving birth to new spirit, soul, to exist in the material world. It is the will of God. It is a different thing. So, what is the relation of these two people, man and a woman, on the planet and in the heavens? I said, it depends. On the cross-material body, it is the sexual intercourse, union, and the effect of it is just the childbirth, bringing children. And that's, I said, the will of God. Because they may do that, and nothing will come to it. That depends, I said, on the will of God. But in reality, seeing things, it is a sacred thing. Giving birth, prolonging the life from the other realms to the cross-material world. Now, from where it should start this relationship from the cross-material world with the sexual intercourse? This is what is the mistake. Of course, according to the law of God and to His mercy, this is the opportunity so that children may come to the world to be born into the world. But, what family do they create? If their union is not in higher planes, in the realms of love. So, maybe there are two persons, a male and a female, for years and years, lying on the same bed and still be very far to one from the other for years. That's not the sexual intercourse which unites a man to a woman. So, is their marriage sacred then? Now, we shall see from two different points. Of duty and habit, because why they are connected? And there is a debt which one owes to the other. Because God could not just make them meet each other. That is one case. And the other case is just to be according to the will of God. But, I said, the sexual intercourse is not joining two people, a male and a female, but the soul connection. So, this cannot last on the material plane more than a few years. Forever. No. So, it is attraction and repulsion. Attraction and repulsion. Attraction and repulsion. Till the time that there is the attraction that remains one. That means the one enters in the oneness of the other. They can never enter in the oneness of God unless the one is entering the oneness of his companion. Let us call it companion. So, so that a family to be blessed is not only just the priest just reciting things that binds to people that their hearts love. So, what is uniting two people is the love on the higher realms on the psychical and the noetical. No. Psychical and the noetical. Is it not the same thing? No. They may be united in the psychical world. Feeling the one loves the other be in union as two beings, male and female. That means loving each other but there will not be any understanding amongst them, between them and amongst the other people. So, it is not only to be united to human beings, a man and a woman, in the psychical plane but also in the noetical plane. There must be what we call understanding each other. You are living for the other and especially for the children because they complete now this circle according to the will of God of creation. They become co-creators with God. So, the union is not only in the cross-material plane it should be also in the psychical plane and in the noetical plane. This is the marriage which you find in the Gospels proposed by Joshua the Christ as a sacred union. And if Joshua Manuel declares that one should love any other human being as himself would have been exceptional with the fellow that he becomes co-creator with God. So, this should be studied seriously. The sacredness of the married life. But again, two husband and wife come in many incarnations together. As I have seen studying people all around me, I am telling you, yes. I have seen couples more than ten times united. Which is just making these two people united? The sexual intercourse on the material plane? Or they have done it with many others? Both of them. So, that does not bind. Then, which binds them and brings them together in many, many incarnations? The Hindus call it karma. The debts of one to the other. And God unites two people so that they will learn the great lesson of loving and understanding and cooperating. Now, are people united in this incarnation? Even from past incarnations in full attunement to each other? This is the thing they have to learn. Quarreling, shouting, living, complaining, living their life. Either being united to learn their lesson or if they go too far, it is a divorce and separation. One goes his way, the other is going his other way. So, this relationship of human beings, male and female, on the planet for years and years and centuries and centuries, is just as a school to learn your lessons of understanding, loving, uniting. Uniting. Uniting is not the carnal intercourse. Uniting is the one entering the oneness of the other. Now, do I approve this divorce? Sometimes it is advisable. If people go too far, one of them or both of them are coming to a place of beating each other, kicking each other, creating troubles and all that, making their children unhappy, it is better to be separated. Separated. But they were separated already. Just living this kind of life, they have never been really united. So, what is uniting? Two people. Two things. Loving and understanding. If you don't have these two things, you don't know the gross material world is prostitution for me, even if it is by the blessing of the Church. So, uniting between two people should be understanding and loving. If one is selfish and thinks the other is just to dominate him or dominate her, that doesn't matter. It is better that they should be separated. So, marriage, for me, is not the sexual intercourse between two people. But marriage, for me, is on the psychical world with their psychical bodies and in the nautical. Two husband and wife meet on the other side of the psychical plane. Now, I am telling you a law. Love is attraction. Indifference and hatred is repulsion. Those who do not live in the right way on the material plane, never mind that their husband and wife will not meet on the psychical plane or the nautical plane. But those who love each other are united. Now, we have beloved ones who have parted and went to the other side. Are we losing them? There is love? No. If they are not understanding, they are receiving this feeling of not being pleased with, it separates them. So, love is uniting. Indifference, hatred and quarrels is separating. Not only on the material plane, in the other planes also. So, what is the lesson of Iman? To learn to love. This is the greatest lesson which should be learned. To love not in the way people are loving. Because God Joseph Emmanuel Christ said to his disciples, he said, Love one another as I have loved you. Not as you think it is love. My love I give to you. Which means what? My love. A love just pure. Not egoistic. Not dominating. But giving. Whose love? He gave them in the Last Supper the greatest examples. Because I don't believe that they knew what he meant by my love I give to you. Till he showed them. Someone washing their feet. Wiping them and kissing them. All of them. What he said? If you love, you wash the feet of the other. Is that humiliation? No. It's love. So, which is the greatest enemy of a human being on the planet, on earth? The sum total of the demon element as created in his personality created in his subconsciousness. Never mind that this personal egoism presents itself sometimes as an angel of light. Egoism is almost a demon collective of all the elementals of evil in a human being. Unless a fellow annihilates in his consciousness see this unless a fellow annihilates in his consciousness, in his subconsciousness this elemental group elemental we call egoism he cannot wake up his self-consciousness. The soul spirit self. It's as simple as that. Now, what is the lesson a human being has to learn on the cross-material plane? First, that living a day every day, God is giving us as human beings a day to live. Giving us a day to live, God in the cross-material world. The Holy Archangels sustaining that material body and the other bodies to live in them, ourselves. With what right we make the life of the other people miserable? Is that not devilish? But don't we live also in a miserable way? What is the right, our right just to live in that way, in a devilish way? Living in a body the Holy Archangels are creating for me and sustaining it for me to live. What is the aim then of the Holy Archangels? Sustaining this body so that I will live in a stupid way, hating, not loving. Just think the greatest tolerance of the Archangels to us and their patience for us. So these are the lessons we have to learn. We have to initiate in our personality and in our, what we call subconsciousness this demon, collective demon we call personal egoism. And of course, the duty of every human being and of the seekers of Holy Truth is by introspection using the mind in a reasonable way using their divine nature of observation and studying see the reality. The reality in their emotions in their desires in their actions in generally their life as they call it, their own life. Otherwise they will live unhappy and in despair until they learn the great lesson. And now, something like I should just tell you. We, as long as we live in our cross-material body in our own way of living we see things that they mean nothing as just mountains to cross them. For the least things we create troubles, grief and unhappiness to us and to the others around us. That means living without thinking properly. What a seeker of the Truth should do never to value something beyond its value. Not undervalue it and not overvalue it. And how we understand the real value of things? Seeing things from above in the course of time and of the events and studying our life as you have lived it, see that things which really matter very much for us before a day, two, a month three months, six months, today mean nothing to us. Seeing things from a different point of view. And yet that time those things were torturing us. And we are torturing others. Thinking that it was something very, very serious. Now we see that that's not the case. It's everything different. And what we shall do? See, the things now that we think that they are of much importance in reality, they will mean nothing to us in the course of time. After some time in future this is the lesson we have to learn. Do we learn it very easily? I'm telling you we need many, many centuries to learn this lesson. Really a human being needs centuries to learn this lesson. I remember when I was a boy seven years old there was just in the house something that disturbed other people, our people just many, many, many things. I was in a corner sitting I was looking at them all like that. Complaining why and why so many whys like devils jumping and dancing all those whys and why and why and why. I was just looking like that. My father came to me and said, go to bed, it's late. We still have to talk. Talk, say what? What you are saying now and you are saying the whole day, father? Yes, yes, you have just half to do what? No, I'm just sitting here listening to you. He said, you are just a little child, go to bed. You are seven years old. I said, looking at him, I said, father, I was hearing all these things. For days now you are talking, the whole family and the others coming, saying all these things, the trouble and disturbance. Father, nothing matters much and most of the things or these things matter at all. They went to bed, said, come here, come on, repeat it to me, say that. Nothing matters much in life and most things do not matter at all. It's a waste of time. He got a pen, repeated, and he wrote in English because we were speaking in English language in our house, he wrote it down. He said, gentlemen, please, go now. No more talking about these things. He said, nothing matters much and most things do not matter at all. And he put it on a board with red letters and put it in his room. Now, this is the reality. Nothing matters much and most things do not matter at all, especially idle talk, lazy talk of others concerning us. Nothing matters. Tomorrow we'll speak. I will just answer some of the questions. How he must live a better life? How he must create better elementals? And how to give way to trouble?