1- In Reverence for the Lords of Host, Karma and Life Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Today we shall see what is a human being, what we are. Of course, we have double nature. The human and the divine nature, as human beings. You have double nature. We are spirit, soul, ego, selves. Immortal, gods. We are the everlasting life. A spirit, soul, ego. Yet, we are also human. And the human being is created. Created by whom? We must see the divine plan. First, it has been created through the total wisdom in what concerns the human being and the real pleasure of the infinite, absolute beingness. So, we are and we exist to different states of things. It is everlasting, immortal, beyond time. In the world of existence, there is a beginning and an end. It might be that end, the beginning of something else. Because everything in the absolute, infinite beingness, life is motion, vibrations, expression. This is how we are understanding life. But is that the real life? So, we have also, in starting life, to see two things. The everlasting life, which is the absolute, infinite beingness. And we shall see also, the life manifested, expressing the real pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness, becoming as the absolute, infinite beingness. Then we have the locus, the manifestation, the expression of life. So, I have life now, manifested. What is the absolute, infinite life, the real life? Not human intelligence can understand except that it is everlasting. Only that he can know what is life. Though we are the life as spirit, soul, ego beings, we understand ourselves by reflection, by the image we are casting in the mirrors of the world of existence. In the noetic, of course, the psychical, the emotional, and the cross-material worlds. So, as human beings, we belong to the worlds of existence. As divine, God, spirit, soul beings, we are in the absolute, infinite beingness as a spirit, ego. We are in the absolute, infinite beingness as a soul, reflecting a shadow on the worlds of existence, which is the human being. But now, who created the human being? Because a human being, as all other things manifested in the worlds of existence, are creations. They are created. By whom? The creators. But who are these creators? So, we know now the plurality or the multiplicity of the absolute, infinite beingness. You can know the various orders of the archangels, gods, the creators. Now, as human beings, we are related to them. Because they are the creators of our bodies, of our cross-material body, of our etheric doubles, the etheric double of the material body, of our psychical body, and the etheric double of our psychical body. And our nautical body, and the etheric double between the nautical and the nautical body. So, we have three bodies in the human form, and three etheric doubles. Now, the etheric doubles. Why? Are the bodies not enough? Must we have also the etheric doubles? And what does it mean, the etheric doubles? To have something, I must have the mould of it, in which it will be constructed. So, to have a material body, I must have a mould. Is that a mould? In which it will be constructed. And this mould is the etheric double. It is a mistake to think that some systems think that the etheric double is the reflection of the material body. No! It is the mould in which the material body is constructed. And it is under the authority of the Logos, of the Holy Spirit, and of the Archangels. It is not under our authority. We are living in a material body by grace and not by right, because we know nothing about it. Others are constructing it, others are looking after it, and we are living in it. So, the Holy Archangels are supervising and have authority over the material body through its etheric double. The work starts in the etheric double to have an effect of it, the creation of the material body. Now, what is the form of this etheric double? Multiple. Definitely, the mould is the form. But which form? Of the whole material body? Of the organs? Of the cells? So, it is not one mould they have in the etheric double, but many, many, many, many forms. The form of the atom, in it, in the material body, of the cell, of each organ. Each organ has its own form, its own way of functioning. Yet, we have the etheric double of our material body. So, that collective form, having many other forms in it, and just see, working perfectly. All the organs in the material body are working perfectly, so that we have what we call a perfect cell. So, the whole work starts from the etheric double. Now, I'll give more clearly this. Before the creation of the human being, we said, we were, and we are even now, spirit egos. Did we leave the absolute infinite beingness? No. Only one ray of our divine self is coming down. We are already in the absolute infinite beingness, spirit gods. That's our real self. The everlasting, immortal self. But, passing through the real pleasure of the infinite beingness, to the words of the beingness of the locus, for the manifestation, we enter in the divine plan. We enter in that state we call the locus. Then, that ray of our spirit ego self gets a form. The human form. And we are becoming ego souls. What is now that ego soul? Our soul. We are the soul. And we have bodies. In relation to the spirit ego self, the same. The same in quality, not in quantity. I'll give a poor example. Suppose I have an open window. I have this room. It's an open window. And the light from the sun comes through that window on the floor. Now, the light from the sun to the window and the light from the window to the floor is the same. No obstacle in between it. But now, I see on the floor a square light or a triangular light, depends upon the shape of the window. Though the quality of the light passing, coming from the sun and passing from the window to the floor is the same. So, our soul is immortal God. It is the same as our spirit ego soul. Now, all religions, especially the Christian religions, speak about the spirit and the soul without defining it. I think it's better just to define it. The ego spirit and the soul ego are the same. It's God. Immortal. Everlasting. What about the light on the floor now? The human being is there. So, the light on the floor has the shape of the window. So we have our human form. We, as human beings, are the light on the floor. But what's now this light on the floor? What's its relation with the light coming from the window down and from the sun to the window? There is much difference in the light. Now, I have the light flat on the floor. The other side, I have the light raised from the window to the floor. Then raised from the sun to the window. Now, what is the human intelligence now? We are expressing now the light on the floor, on the surface, not more than that. This is what I will call the common human intelligence. The common human consciousness. But is that human common consciousness not able to ascend and be at the same time on the floor and yet travel on the rays, become the rays of the sun? Of course, because the light is the light. So it is flat on the floor, or whatever it is. Coming from the sun, the light is always the light. So, this is our relation as human beings with ourselves, our soul. That's what I said yesterday, that even in the human being, in our bodies, our present day personality is God. God covered with clay, with earth, and with the mind substance, the vibrations of which we call emotions, desires, and many other things. Then thoughts. So, studying all these things, I reached a conclusion that I am not all that. I am not the floor. I am not even the consciousness on the floor or through that. What am I? Christ said that in Greek and in Aramaic. In Greek he said, when he was asked by the Pharisees, who are you? He said, I am I. And in Aramaic he said, I am what I am. That what now is our real existing self, in time, in expression, and in place. Now we come to another point. What is consciousness? Now we can study what is human intelligence expressing what we call human consciousness. But is that all? Is that what we call waking consciousness? Which is the privilege of every human being everywhere on the planet. Which for me is a kind of subconsciousness. Waking consciousness is not what we call the self-consciousness. What is this thing we call consciousness? This is what a seeker of the truth tries to find, to know it, assimilate it, and feel it is part of himself to express it. You have consciousness in various degrees of expression. We have mentioned certain kinds of this kind of consciousness. The instinctive consciousness, the subconsciousness, the waking consciousness, let us call it the self-consciousness, studying the human nature. But that is not all. Our real self-consciousness is the soul ego consciousness and further our spirit self- consciousness. So we have this what we call consciousness which is not again our self, it is our expression in the words of existence. I think it is rather difficult to understand all that with words. You have to experience them in making certain exercises in introspection, observation, concentration and meditation. But on the correct lines, because people are using subconsciously, not to say unconsciously, the mind in the wrong way. We have just to use their mind as light in the proper way, so that we will know what is our soul self beyond its reflections, beyond the image and likeness of God, to understand what is our real self, God. Now, we made the description. When a spirit, ego self, decides to reflect one of its rays to the words of existence, it means that it is accompanied by a ray of the archangelic orders we call thrones. And that ray is our archangel, guardian angel, that accompanies our spirit, ego self, becoming one with our ego, so that we live as human beings. So, we have from this point again a double nature, our being self and the ego fight, being of the Metatronios, which is our self also, being ego fight, yet it keeps its own purity. So, why? This is the real pleasure of the infinite being, and it says in the Bible, and God said, let us create man to our image and according to our likeness, just the same as we are. As the locus is and as the holy archangels in it are. And so, the Lord of the elements co-vibrate with this real pleasure of the El Shataih, the locus, to create a human being. But, according to the divine total wisdom, everything is there as the archetypes, which are in the authority now of the guardian archangel, the Metatronios, ego fight to our soul now consciousness. Perfect. On that, the holy archangels of the elements will start working. Nobody will start building a construction unless he has the plans. So, the plans are in the hands of the authority of the Metatronios, our archangel, the guardian angel. So, what is there? The permanent atom, the noetic course law, which will be reflected as a form, the human form, our form. From where do these holy archangels get that human form to work with, to build even our human bodies? Really, that was a great question for me also, and I got the answer lately to the archangel, Yohannan. He said, my love, you always had it in you, even being one with the absolute infinite beingness. So, we always, as spirit, egos, had that nature of becoming humanized, to become human beings. The other archangels? No. They have their own nature. So, we are never losing our human form, even after returning to our divine nature. We have our human form. This is the form of our spirit self, which is everlasting, incorruptible. Now, we said the archetypes of everything concerning the human form and expression is in the authority of the Metatronios. And on it are working all the holy archangels of the elements. Seven orders of archangels. My friend, I am not allowed to reveal their names, besides mentioning the names of four only, but there are seven. Seven orders, having in the bodies of each one of us one of their holy orders. Of course, those I am allowed to speak of are the Michaels, the Machials, the Raphaels, the Gabriels, and the Urials. These four I can mention. I am not allowed to mention the other three. They will be mentioned in the innermost circles, not openly, because there may be certain people who make bad use of those vibrations of these archangels. Because they are the lords of materialization, dematerialization, and of extending the light consciousness of the soul. But, extending it, upwards or downwards? I don't want to create black magicians, just abusing the super substance of the mind. So, the names of the three archangelic orders will remain secret to the public. They will be revealed, though, to those who are worthy of cooperating with them. In what way? In purifying their human heart to reflect the divine love and their love. So, speak about the archetypes. On the permanent atom, the archetype of which is in the authority of our guardian angel, the Metatronus, luminous, splendid, are everything concerning the human form and the bodies. The form of the atom, composing the material body. The form of the bones, of the various organs, of every gland. How many organs are in the material body, functioning to keep for us a material body, perfect to live? Even a doctor of medicine cannot know them all. And how the glands are functioning. And how the glands are just manifesting the total wisdom of God. So, the seeker of the truth is studying what is going on in his material body. He is wondering at the total wisdom of the holy archangels of the elements, of the Logos, and of the Holy Spirit. Now, what the seeker of the truth will find after investigating the cross-material body? He will find out, of course, the mold of it, the etheric double of the material body, which is the most complicated and the most perfect than the etheric doubles of all the bodies. So, studying the etheric double of our material body, we know the whole wisdom, the total wisdom of the creators. Studying the etheric doubles of the psychic and the neurotic bodies, we are allowed to do that. Of course, but these etheric doubles are not so complicated. And they are under the authority of the human being, and he has to work with them. As I will explain when we finish with this study of the etheric double of our material body. Now, the material body has its etheric double. The mold in which it is built up in what we call the course of time. It starts from the spermatozoa. It has its etheric double. The pregnancy, developing the embryo in the womb of the mother, changing every moment, ripening, is that the word? Just to become the child. So this mold or the etheric double of our material body is changing every moment. Changing. Who is causing this change? The total wisdom of the absolute infinite beingness of the locus. The Holy Spirit and the Archangels. A child is born. Becoming a different now entity from the mother. Starting its own life. Now the Holy Archangels start their work on the etheric double of the newborn child. Boy or girl. Growing it. So, they make the changes every moment on the etheric double. The organs and everything. And the effect of this change is the growing up of the material body. Growing, growing, growing. Till a fellow will reach what we call the old age. What is death now? Such a thing does not exist. Because what people make the mistake to call death is the change. But the change is every moment. And the change, we can see it. Everybody of you has been a child, a girl or a boy, playing on the floor. As a small boy. Where is that boy now? Or that little girl? Holding her arms. A doll and playing. And the other just holding the marbles. Or collecting stamps. Where is it? The child of five years old. Orthodox science says that every seven years not even a particle remains in the body. Where is that? What is that self of yours when you are a child? It's gone. Died? No. Changed. To become you. Now you are in this age. Suppose some of you keep this material body of yours living after twenty years. Not even a particle of what is in your material body will be in that body which you say, I, myself, what will become of your body now? Changed. And orthodox science found out a great truth now that matter is indestructible. It simply is under changes. Even matter. Matter becomes energy and energy becomes matter. And everything is what we call the mind. And we have the mind as mind super substance formless. This mind substance reflecting the causes, laws into forms. And then we have the mind in still lower rhythm of vibrations and frequencies that causes what we call emotions. And then we have the solid mind which is the material. All around us, our material body. Everything is the mind in different rates of frequencies of vibrations. Nothing more than that. But now who is the one in these worlds? Complicated worlds of existence. Living in a so-called material body. You say, I, who? Who is that I? Well, this is the aim of the seeker of the truth to find out who he or she is. Or rather, what he or she is. First he will study his image. He is the image and likeness of God. The image, you can see it. You can see our image of the material plane. Our cross-material body. Our expressions as a personality. Intentions. The way of living. That is the image. But the image is not the likeness. We have been created as an image of the locus according to its likeness. So this needs much study. Study, how? Introspection. Expressing our divine nature, which is observation. Training our present-day personality to concentrate and then use the mind in the proper way in meditation. Thinking in the right way. So, this is the way. The way of finding out. Now, as I said, the third example of the material body is the most complicated. First of all, it has in it the Holy Spirit. It has the form. Perfect form. It can never get sick. There cannot be sickness on the etheric double of our material body. Yet, all illnesses and sickness on the material body will pass from the psychical body through it on the material body. Though it never becomes sick. The etheric double. Keeping in it the whole, we call it creativity, of the Sekinah. Yet, all illnesses will pass through it. Why? Because all illnesses on the material body of a human being is the result of his psychical condition. The way of thinking and feeling. Now, the orthodox science says it is psychosomatic. Let them explain to us what they mean by psychosomatic. Of course, they are. They are using the right word, but they don't know how. So, I said the etheric double of the material body is perfect. We can trace it, find it, know it, and use it. This is the aim of the Seeker of the Truth. And I have defined it according to the way it is functioning, at least to four classes. The first is what we call imprinting ether. It is that quality of the whole psychical body, the vibrations of which are to be used by the personality in creating thought forms, mental forms. To use it in the proper way of visualization. The second is what I call aesthetic ether. From the word, the Greek word esthesis, or the feeling giving ether. This is what we are using subconsciously to know that we live in our material body. When I gave you yesterday the exercise, feel you are in the material body. In reality, you are in the so-called etheric double of your body. Moving from the toes, from the feet, to the knees, to the thighs, and so on, and going back. And then in the whole, as you see the material body, you are on the etheric double. Because all the organs in the material body are not an obstacle in your movements from one place to the other. So, your work is on the etheric double. This is what we do. You are feeling what? Feeling the existence of your material body. That is the aesthetic or feeling giving ether. But I wanted it on higher realms. To feel who you are, and what you are. This is a more complicated work. In passing from the etheric double of our material body to the etheric double of our nautical body. I make the analysis now. How? This is taught in the inner circle, not in the public. Now, we have the second kind of ether. Ether of the etheric vitality which is composing our etheric double. The first is imprinting ether. This is what is aesthetic or feeling giving ether. Then we have what we call the kinetic ether. When I said, feel your toes, the knees. That is a movement. You are moving on the etheric double. Now, on the head, you are moving there. So, we have what we call now motion. In the etheric double. Later we will know how to move out of the body. And be anywhere you like. Because you are a god. You are not an animal. Just a poor human being. This is the work to be done by the seekers of the truth later. So, we have what we call now the kinetic ether. Kinetic from the word kinesis. Or movement, motion giving ether. Then we have the other which is the creative ether. For that, no one is allowed to speak. That is that nature and kind of our etheric double which has in it the etheric vitality, creating, constructing. No human being should know that. Of course, when one, even as a personality, reaches higher stages of self-consciousness, he will know. Who will teach him? He will find out by the instructions of his guardian archangel within him. In deep meditation, observation and concentration. First he must pass through the hall of ecstasy. Contemplation. Increase his self-consciousness to higher, higher stages. Then he will know. He cannot be taught by anybody else, a master, or even read these things in books. It needs training. The books and the masters will show only the way. But one has to try himself. And what is encouraging is the parable of Joshua Emanuel, the Christ, the God-man. I repeat again the parable of the talents. He gave, let us say, two talents. Only that part of the parable. And when he came back, he gave him four talents. He said, Master, you have given me two. The material body, the etheric double. I made it the cyclical body and the nautical body. I made them four. What did he say, the master? Well done. Faithful worker. You have been faithful to little things. I will give you more. Come in the joyousness of your master. Which is the joy of our master? Of the ecstasy, of the locus? The creation. Then you are entrusted by the creative ether of your etheric double. Now, what they have observed, many, many doctors and doctors. They have amputated a foot of a fellow. Now, part of the body is taken away from the main body. A leg, an arm, or something like that. Did he amputate the etheric double? No. That cannot be changed. And many, after having a leg amputated, they are feeling pain. Years after, they want to toss. Which means, it happens to be able to feel the etheric nature of their etheric double. As they said, etheric ether and feel it. So, amputation of the material body is not affecting the etheric double. Because that is the mold. It is not the result. It is the cause. Now, the work of the seeker of the truth is to work on his etheric double. On the three natures of his etheric double. Imprinting, kinetic and aesthetical feeling giving ether. And then, the fourth quality of it will be added to him by the locus. There are another, of course, ways that this etheric double is functioning. It cannot be given publicly. I said, if he knows how to use the other nature of the etheric double, he can work what people call miracles and wonders. And our aim is not to show stupid people around us phenomena just to applaud us. Because the seeker of the truth is free from a stupid personal egoism. He is approaching things with reverence. So, we said that the etheric double of our material body, the most complicated etheric double is in the authority of the Shekinah or the Holy Spirit. The El Shattai or the Locos, or the Sons of the Light, which means the Holy Archangels, the Michael, the Raphael, the Nouriel, the Gabriel, and three more. So, now, we see that we have the same human form in what we call our psychical body. Now, it is a wrong expression, because the soul is not in need of the human body. We might call it rather the emotional body. Some occultists are calling it the astral body, and they confuse it with the soul. No, this is just the form of the human body, the form of it, with substance. Are there organs in the psychical body? No! I move with my psychical body after I have made it perfect to use it as an independent vehicle for me. But seeing it, I cannot see any organs. But it is a whole, and I see centers of vibration. And there, you have to learn how to control those vibrations, which are causing what we call emotions, desires. Seeing the psychical body through the etheric body of the psychical body of a fellow, you will see centers of energy in a variety of colors. From the colors, you will understand that fellow as a personality in what place of development he is. So, humans know the meaning of the colors. And from the colors of the etheric body of the psychical body, that fellow, after leaving the material body, will classify himself in the relative part of the psychical world, which he deserves. So, in the etheric double of our psychical body, we are building the shell of our paradise or our hell, in which we are living even now. So, three changes inside this shell, paradise or hell, are for us to do. The Holy Archangels, just keep guard, are giving the etheric double of the psychical body with the necessary substance, as a mother is giving her breast to give milk to the child. Nothing more. You have to use it or make bad use of it. So, I say, on this psychical body of every human being, there are no organs. But they say, yes, you see the form and you see the psychical body of a man. But in the other side, eyes, yes, he has the form of the human body. But he can see from every particle of his psychical body, if he will train himself to do so. So, in our material body, through our etheric double, and developed now, we see through our eyes, in the psychical world, when one is trained, he can see from everywhere. And, of course, distances are different than what they are in the material world. This is what gives the sense of the fourth dimensional world. And this is what brings a new comer to the psychical world, or the one who is going consciously in projection during this life there, to be in confusion. Unless he has those who will teach him the laws of the psychical world, the laws of the world of the four dimensions. And now, concerning the etheric double of the so-called psychical body, there on it are the centers of energy, colored according to the development of that personality, of that person. None more than that. What about the medical body? It is just the same. It is formless. And you will find also in the cognitive body, the same things. The same centers, colored in the same way. That is why many call it the psycho-ethical body, because they are united. There are certain badly colored with deep colors, centers. In the psycho-ethical body there are at the same time, in the psycho-ethical body also, because one is affecting the other. So, though the material body and the material etheric double of our body is in the hands, I said, of the Holy Spirit, of the Logos and the Archangels, the etheric doubles of the psycho-ethical body and the psycho-ethical body are in our hands. And we are responsible for that. We are given simply the substance, which we make good use of or bad use of. We are given the mind. Always is the mind. We are making it good use or bad use. Yet, in the Holy Archangel are the archetypes, which are exercising on each person an attraction. And subconsciously we are feeling how our etheric doubles of the nautical or the psycho-ethical body should look like. But this is done subconsciously. This attraction will lead us one day back to perfection. But we are free to color our psychical and nautical bodies as we wish. But we are living in worlds of existence governed by laws, going against those laws we have to undergo the consequences. This is what gives the sense of Karma. Karma is a Greek and a Hindu word. Because there is a great relation between the Sanskrit and the Greek language. The Greeks call it Krima. The Hindus call it Karma. But there is a misunderstanding now. People in the West, studying what the Hindus are teaching about Karma, think that Karma means to suffer something bad for something bad you have done. That is not the case. What we might call Karma is given also by Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. Whatever one sows, so he shall reap. Which means doing something bad, the consequences will be painful. But doing something good, you have to receive relatively what good you have done. Even he said if you give a glass of water, you receive it back. So, for us, this term must mean the law of cause and effect. Relative cause, relative effect. It is again a blasphemy in certain religions to think that something a fellow has done is a sin. For that he is doomed in eternal hell. There is not such a devil God to punish human beings in this way. That is a blasphemy. God is most merciful. What happens to us is violating the laws, becoming in order of the law, we are facing certain consequences. And a relative cause is giving this relative result. Not more, not less. Because there is perfect justice in the authority of Uriah, Uriah the Lord of justice, order and equilibrium. So, we have mentioned four Archangelic Orders. I am allowed to speak a little more about them. The Machaels. Billions and billions and billions of Machaels. Yet one. How is that? You cannot know what is human nature. Or the heavenly man. By studying the character of a human being. Of a person. Because each one is separated from the other. We are in the world of separateness. The Archangels are not. So, billions and billions and billions of Archangels called Machaels. They have their individuality, each one of them. Yet they have their common Archangelic self-consciousness. They are one. Now this is rather difficult to understand. Before knowing what is common self-consciousness in the Logos. The same with the Caprials. The Raphaels. And the Urials. And each of these individual Archangels is destined to do a certain kind of work. Nothing beyond that. And all of them cooperating amongst them are giving the total wisdom of the Father God. The one God. Though there are billions of Gods, still it is one God. They are in the one great reality and authority. So, what is the work of Machaels? And what is the point they are cooperating? Machaels is the Lord of Fire, Light and Heat. I completed the triangle. How to use these three qualities? I am not allowed to say. But it is the three qualities. Creative and dissolving. Not distracting. There is no such a word as distraction. Dissolving. Just an expression of it. So we have the Machaels. The Lord of Fire, Heat and Light. Now we have Raphael. Raphael is the Lord of the Etheric Vitality. Machaels color is blood red. And all these shades of red. Now we have Raphael. The color of Raphael is a violet color. It is the Etheric Vitality. It is darkness to the human eyes. Yet it is the super light. Which is not related to the light of the sun. Under the domain of Machaels. He is the Lord of another kind of light. And unless you know it. You cannot understand what it is. Is there not heat in the Etheric Vitality? Of course there is. Maybe more heat than you can find in the rays of the sun. How you work with these qualities of the Etheric Vitality? Again I say it is the work of the innermost circle. So we have now Gabriel. For these three we can speak. The element of liquids. How many kinds of liquids we have on the planet? We have kerosene. We have oil. Different kinds of density. Yet you have fire in it. You can light it. So even in certain cases. Of the expression of Gabriel. I have in it Machaels. This is what I call the cooperation amongst the Archangels. Where do they cooperate? In our bodies. In our material bodies. They are cooperating. In nature all around us. And in every form of life. In every expression of life. In every phenomenon of life. They are cooperating. How? You get ready-made. You call it food. Prepared by the Holy Archangels. Liquid. The animals you are consuming and everything. It is light. It is water. They are cooperating to create many, many billions and billions and billions of phenomenon of life. In all the vegetable kingdom. In the animal kingdom. Human being is consuming them as food. Who is just changing? This food you are eating. We call it digestion. And each Archangel will get its own substance. So that he will make it creative. In your bodies. Here he will store fat. Here it will be muscle. Now everything. The work of the three Archangels is giving you the red warm blood. Circulating the whole body. Can you imagine how splendid and magnificent. Work is done. Now, this moment in your material bodies. In the blood. Now. The creative method they are using. Suppose I stab with a knife. And open a wound on your leg. Or on your arm. You see that it will not be contaminated. It will be cured. Healed. Closed down. How? You don't do it. You don't know how it is done. Yet it will be closed. You are running. You are breaking a bone. On the leg. On the arm. Something else. That tends to join. It is more splendid work. On the solid bones. Who is doing it? How it is done? Cooperating with the Lord of Earth. Shamel. But it is done. You see it. You can see it. Yet, who is observing it? And as a human being, we give thanks to those Lords of Creation. Preparing a perfect body. For him or her. To express themselves in it. Who is giving thanks? Why should we not? Why should we not respect their work? For us. And is that great and splendid work just in vain? Without any cause. So. A human being expressing a divine self-consciousness. And a human perfect intelligence, if he wishes to express it. Should understand this creative work. In his own body. More splendid work. He will understand. Starting the etheric double of his material body. Starting his psychical body. And nautical body. For which he is responsible. To give them the right human shape. And qualities. So. The material body. And its etheric double. Perfect. Is in the authority of the Holy Archangels. Of the Locusts and the Holy Spirit. But can be given even to us. To a seeker of the truth. Who will use observation, meditation. And purify himself. To use it. Cooperate with them. But what concerns us is now. The psychical body. Which is our present day personality. Our emotions. Weaknesses. Our subconsciousness. Our life which is not the life of the material body. The life of the material body is completely independent from the life. Of the person living in it. Though he is influencing the health of the material body. By burning up the etheric vitality. With a non-sensual way of living. Because this he will learn by observation. By learning what is life in the material body. By knowing and understanding who. He is in reality. And who he thinks he is. Which is not. Which is imagination. Now we will make an exercise. Breathe deeply. With the air you are breathing. In it is also the etheric vitality. For the etheric double of your material body. And your material body. There are many, many kinds of etheric vitality. Breathe deeply. The air is filling only the lungs. In your chest it will not go anywhere else. By breathing. Yet by breathing you can feel. The etheric vitality. Going to any part of your material body. I mean the etheric double of it. An ascetic ether. Now see that every time you breathe in. This etheric vitality is in the whole material body. You feel your thighs. You feel your legs. You feel your feet. So the air enters only the lungs. Yet the etheric vitality you are breathing. Can go anywhere you wish to go. By concentration in your material body. Through the etheric double. So feel your feet. From the place you are sitting on the chair. To the toes of your feet. And feeling them. You will feel they are getting warm. There is warmth now. In this etheric vitality. Feeling your feet. Thighs. Knees. Legs. Try to feel this warmth. Yogi's in India living in mountains. In the Himalayas. On the ice. They can just get this warmth. Giving etheric vitality. And keep their bodies warm. Feel this sweet warmth. Your etheric vitality. On your legs. Thighs. Knees. Legs. And say with your mind. I want perfect health. To be in these parts of my body. Subconsciously you are working for it. The holy archangels will be pleased to see that you acknowledge what they are doing. They see you. They feel you. They know you. You don't know them. Breathe deeply. And store this vital energy. Now in your abdomen. And the legs. And the feet. Feel your abdomen. Continue breathing deeply. And feel the air in your lungs. And the etheric vitality. In all your material body through the etheric double of it. Deep and comfortable breaths. Fill the whole body with this etheric vitality. Feel you are in the material body. You are existing now. As an individual being. Enough. I take from the mind of three or four of you. Studying certain books. In yoga. Yet being in confusion. And I will give you a certain explanation so that you will be out of the confusion. When you read in your books. About a pyramid. You don't understand what does it mean. Of course these are things in our system of the inner circle. And the inner circle. The whole material world. Everything material. Cross material. From the galaxy. To any kind of form. Has as a symbol of it. A pyramid. With a four sided base. This is the law of the material world of the three dimensions. And each side of this pyramid. Is symbolizing the four elements. I have spoken about today. So imagine now with visualization. Any size you like pyramid. On four sided base. Four corners. Therefore it has. Four triangular sides. Every side. Of this pyramid. Symbolizes one of the elements. So you must have it balanced. And. According to the four sided basis. Is the construction of the triangular sides of the pyramid. Which means keep in order. The material. The ethereal. Your cyclical nature. And your nautical nature. To construct in your nature. This four sided complete pyramid. Which will be a perfect personality. I have given to three or four of you. The hints. Work on it.