1- Live an Examined Life I Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your all mightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. One is born in this world as a human being, a man or a woman, coming to this so- called material plane, this material world. Growing, after being born, starts growing, growing. Reaches an age in which he or she is understanding something happening just around, around him or around her. First of all, the family. The conditions in the family. The life in the family. And so, growing, develops a human material body. Man or woman. Of course, the material body. Continuous growing, growing. Living its own life, the material body. There is a completely different life in the material body from what we call our life, each one of us, as a personality. Now, growing appears an entity, an I-ness, a personality of a man or a woman. Now, comparing the bodies, the material bodies of all human beings, men or women, the material bodies are somehow the same. Bones, flesh, blood, many organs, the same organs, in the material bodies of men and in the material bodies of women. Studying the material body of a young man, we know what is the material body of every other young man as a human being. Likewise, studying the body of a young woman, we know what are the bodies, all the bodies of all young women. Same conditions, same possibilities. Yet, in growing these material bodies, all in the same way, taking food, breathing, drinking water, and developing the material body. But who is doing that? Who is responsible for the material body? The form, the material form of the human being, and then, what we call life in a material body. Who is looking after that material body? To keep it in good health? That's another matter to be considered. But we see that in this material body of a man or a woman, is developing an identity, a personality, which is very different from all other persons around them, even members of the same family. So, you cannot study the personality of a man or a woman and say that you know what is the personality of other people. In the same way, we can do it studying the material bodies. So, this kind of self now, let us call it self, is not a product, definitely, of the material body, of the food we eat, or of the way we are living. Because in a family, you find children growing, in the same environment, eating the same kind of food, eating on the same table, hearing the same lessons and instructions from the parents, getting, as we say, the same way of growing up, the family way. Yet, one becomes a saint and the other is a criminal. Why? What is the reason? These are things we can see and study every day, in every community, in every place of the world, everywhere on the planet. So, what is the personality of a man or a woman? But now, who is putting this question? Inevitably, sooner or later, these questions will be presented to certain persons. Some persons take life just like that, without caring about anything else except considering their material bodies as their own self, I, showing on their material body, taking care of the material body. How? How? It is the holy archangels of the elements who are taking care of the material body. Anyhow, just to show the surface of that material body to the other people, dressing themselves better, or this and that. Many are just behaving in this way in the society. They don't care about anything else. They get a job just to earn their living, or others are taking that care to look after them and feed them. This is just as you can find them everywhere in the world, living a life which is not even worth living. Some of them come to despair, and even they commit suicide, because they find that life is not worth living. Who taught them what is life? And really, what is life? This is the problem that everybody has to engage himself with and understand what is life. Now, we said certain people. Other people, of course, being under the burden of necessity and the conditions, everywhere, even in their own place, in their own family, in their own community, in the nation they are, they must get a job to earn their living. But they are not satisfied with that. They start putting the questions to whom? Definitely to themselves. Who else can answer these questions? Who am I? What am I? Am I a human being? Yes. They have to face this and this and this problem. How? Is it reasonable? Because in this class of people, you find many, many people in the various stages of development. But, after hard thinking, they find the way, at least to what I call the relative truth concerning life in our time. What is life? It needs much, much more just introspection to reach this answer. What is life? Now, during the past centuries, many past centuries, such persons, I call them the great ones, were not satisfied only of seeing things happening around them. And even finding all other human beings around them unhappy, fighting, killing one another, putting the question, but why? What for? All these things. They start just trying to understand what is going on in themselves at first and in the others, in the others, as a personality, causing all these things. So, they start studying what I will call now the personality of a human being, a man or a woman. I am telling you, studying this subject, you will never find even two people the same. There must be some difference. Even twin brothers or twin sisters as a personality. Then comes the question, must now we study the physical body in which we are living and we make the mistake to consider it that it is our self, or just that kind of self we are expressing. Each one of us as a personality now has to make an analysis on both sides. Studying the material body, yes, the orthodox science is doing it now. And just opening a book on anatomy will remain wondering how many organs are in the material body? How is the material body? But, that is not enough. You must put the question to yourself. Who did really create all these organs? And what for created these organs? Who created this material body? I call mine. Now we come to another point. We don't call it ourselves now, but we call it ours. Mine, my body. Of course, this is a very serious branch of study of the reasonable ones. The orthodox science, yes, I can dare say that it has done much, much progress. But, there are much, much more which remain unanswered. And, of course, in future they will get the answer. For example, what are the glands? What is the work of the glands? By studying now how the material body of a man or of a woman is functioning, they will reach to the conclusion that a super-intelligence most wise we call it the locus, the manifestation of God as the locus. Locus means manifestation. It is using what we call the absolute total wisdom. Yes, there is the absolute total wisdom in the work in which the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit and the locus is doing in your own body. In your own material body. There is much wisdom. Then we come to the conclusion Why? Why so much trouble? From the side of the Holy Archangels. Then another branch of study. What are these Holy Archangels? The Lords of the Elements. Now we have another branch of study. We cannot deny their existence. Definitely. Because they are working in the material body of every human being. Only. And of every animal. Of every living form. In the trees. In the flowers. Everywhere you see in the world around you. These Holy Archangels following their order doing their work which the absolute infinite beingness implanted in them are working most wisely. So the world of creation around us is a very vast field of study. And we find what? That each phenomenon of life in what we call the world of existence the cross-material world the world we get knowledge of it through the senses and especially through the sight is governed by that total wisdom. Serious study of these things studying this phenomenon of life around us. We come to certain conclusions. We come. Anybody can come to that conclusion. But the great ones of past centuries have pointed us the way they have followed to reach this conclusion. We should not accept something because somebody as we call him a great one just said that. We ourselves should know the truth. Should understand it. So we see that. In this world of existence the material world something to exist that something must have definitely a form. A form. What form now? Since we see all around us on the material plane billions and billions and billions of forms from the worm the amoeba the ant, the butterfly many kinds of colored butterflies everything all around us how many phenomena of life do we see around us? We can detect around us billions and billions and billions of phenomena of life and each of it has its form. And we see that something to exist must definitely have a form. But we see just one thing having that form. Or billions and billions again things having the same form. And we see that each kind of phenomenon of life has what we call its circle of possibilities. Just this is proving us that behind everything is the total wisdom. Studying one kind of life we know what it is in that kind of life for every form of that kind. This is what we can find. Who decides about all that? So now, studying what we call the world of forms seriously we can reach to the conclusion that behind each form is the total wisdom of the builders of that form. Of the builders of that form. This is our first thought which is mistaken. Because they, the Holy Archangels do not create the forms. But they trust the forms with their elements. So, a kind of life of any form of the billions and billions of these forms around us has its place in the everlasting life in the world of the ideas, of the causes of the laws in the Divine Plan. And the Holy Archangels of the elements Michael, the Lord of the element of fire. Gabriel, the Lord of the element of water and of space around the planet. Raphael, the Lord of energy, magnetism, the etheric vitality giving existence and life on the material planet the Earth. Then another kind of Archangels keeping the balance and the order. This is just proving us that Uriel giving us that every kind of form around us has its own circle of possibilities going around it. Cannot escape from it. Has to complete the circle of possibilities provided it is the wish of the Logos to complete it. Otherwise we have the circle of probabilities around the circle of possibilities. So for every living form for every phenomenon of life, one and only one circle of possibilities exists, which you can study. But being in the world of the effect from the causes we see around every such circle of possibilities many circles of probabilities. Just entering the wisdom of these circles of probabilities, I assure you it is not an easy thing to understand. But studying the laws of possibilities of each form in life we are wondering at the absolute wisdom, total wisdom of the intelligences. Let me call now the Archangels of the Elements intelligences. Now to these intelligences the Lords of the Elements, the Archangels have a form a form of their own. Of course each order has its form. But they can get any form since they are working in all the forms. What about the human form? Can we see a Michael? A Gabriel? A Raphael? A Uriel? In a human form? Can we see them? In the material body of every human being a man or a woman a Michael is working giving that body the necessary heat. A Gabriel is working giving to the body the liquids in the material body. A Raphael is working giving to that material body what we call the etheric double the etheric vitality call it magnetism, call it personal magnetism, they give many names now to this energy. And a Uriel is there balancing the elements. You are growing not only time growing there must be a balance. Starting this we reach, I said, to the total wisdom of them. Now do Michaels get a human form? If they want to have it yes. Since they are right since they are working in your material body they know it they know it molecule by molecule atom by atom the organs and everything keeping it in order two Raphaels can get a human form of course Gabriel of course of course Uriel I have never seen any Uriel in a human form though I have seen many Michaels, Gabriel and Raphaels in human form Uriel I have never seen because the balancer is avoiding getting a material human form others other Archangelic orders less personal because they are personal as the Cherubs and others they get forms yes the human face yes sometimes but not completely a human form I am speaking of my own experiences so can one conduct these Archangels? how? they are in your body working every moment making your material body grow they are responsible for the growth of your material body which is not you so as I said it is a mistake to say I ensure your material body because your material body lives its own life whether you care about it, you know it or not once born the material body that will continue growing according to their decision if they want to complete for you your circle of possibilities ending it as the circle of probabilities any stage of the growth it is up to them so you are a different entity than your material body your material body is the animal as every other animal life all around you it has its own instinctive consciousness instinctive consciousness subconsciousness no consciousness no it has its own instinctive consciousness we can study it is this instinctive consciousness of the material body having to do something with our subconsciousness our subconsciousness not its subconsciousness yes as the storehouse of the energy, yes but not its quality and I am talking now only about the material body the material body a human being can know with the five senses but that's not all because developing a kind of self we are using other bodies also which are in our material body the so called psychical body the body of the emotions and the nautical body the body of the thoughts and even other conditions of life but we are using them as a self now to other living things around us I don't call them beings the animals or the animal life around us express a self no no living form phenomena of life around us on the planet expresses more than what I call instinctive consciousness which is the result of the angel behind it behind it now I use another word angel because before I said archangels they are two different things fortunately the church does not make distinction because they don't know personally all these things so an angel or a nature spirit is the elemental the mental thought of the archangel animating that form giving it the form getting the form from the world of the principles and the holy archangels dressing those forms through the angel with their elements now who is creating that spirit or angel of a form of an animal we said that the archangel Michael is working the archangel Gabriel is working, the archangel Raphael is working, Uriel is working, and Arthur is working which of all those is creating the so called angel it is the emanation or the expression of which archangel now of the holy spirit the holy spirit or the absolute intelligence impersonal intelligence is providing to every animal life the angel and through that angel the holy archangels are working of course more I am not allowed to say so we can know what is going on in the world of creation by studying we who we what are we can an animal any kind of animal you call it intelligent do this work feeling having a self and using now self- consciously the mind to study and know know why? because they are not gods it is the parts of life and not life itself they are phenomena of life all are phenomena of life in the vegetable kingdom and the animal kingdom what is our difference now from all this animal life around us we are gods Christ said that or the enlightened was said that you are all gods sons of the almighty male and female are there male gods and female gods? somebody had put me this question I said no a god is neither male nor female maybe both both but not in form and in expression but in quality so the soul also first you are soul beings gods which is a great difference now from what I call God the father the absolute infinite beingness yes if we get one drop of water from the ocean and make an analysis you know what is the ocean salt water you can know that but a drop of water is not the ocean in quantity at least so spherical shape of the drop of water is your soul is the soul god? yes definitely the soul is god so we are gods are soul spirit egos and you can find that by introspection looking within searching and finding according to Joshua Emmanuel the Christ the kingdom of the heavens which is in you in your nature as gods now this is a vast field of study which needs many many centuries and incarnations to reach to that stage now what is life from this point of view you can put many questions which life you presented now many phenomena of life in the vegetable kingdom I didn't mention anything about minerals, crystals and all that that's also life the vegetable and the animal kingdom is life and now we are presenting the life of our so called material body and we didn't mention anything else about anything about the psychical body and the nautical bodies bodies belonging to different dimensions to different worlds of existence and then we speak about life and Christ is speaking about the everlasting life what is this everlasting life we know life as a phenomenon birth growth completing a circle or not completing it of possibilities and passing over to another condition these are death what do we mean by death now death which means dissolution of course there is of the material body when it completes the circle of possibilities or ends its existence in any place of the circle of probabilities definitely there is the death of the material body which means dissolution either under death when it is interred or by cremation there is an end to it so death of the material body, yes but is there what you call death of our personality of our self no because this selfhood is the everlasting eternal life and we as a spirit soul self we are immortal that is why I said we are gods we had never been born and we are never dying in future we who we now we see double self the real light and its shadow so that I have the shadow of the light I must have the in between something which will cast a shadow can you have a shadow even if you have life life is everywhere unless you have something in between it and that in between something will give a shadow of the light on something else again unless you have a surface or a floor can you say shadow no no what do we care about our shadow or the light which is our self everlasting god everlasting life you say yes why don't I remember and I put you the question who is putting the question now the shadow or the light who are you now you are both and the shadow and the life you are the shadow because you cast the material substance and matter unless you had this matter and substance and even super substance you couldn't cast a shadow in the world of existence but these are worlds of time and place space it's not what I would call the absolute reality the absolute selfhood so come again tell me yes of course but now as I am a shadow what am I as a shadow who is inquiring now me the shadow shadow or the spirit now I put you the question who wants to know you show to yourself I want to know I who now you are speaking about an I-ness which I God God is not in need of knowing anything because as a God you know everything you know all as a shadow yes but now let us study that self of yours as a shadow and find in that shadow the light which is really you you can find it through what you call introspection and reasoning at the beginning until you learn now as a personality the great great state of attunement to attune yourself with your inner reality yourself with what I would call attunement sometime or oneness you becoming that you say but I am a shadow can the shadow become the light yes of course it can be absorbed by the light and this is what Jesus Christ had taught us we are not going to lose even our present day personality he said the phenomenically mortal will become immortal and the continuously changing will become unchanging you will find all these things in the new testament in the teachings of Christ so even your present day personality can become immortal you say how is it it sounds as a nonsense how the mortal can become immortal I tell you what is your personality now the course of events in time and certain place now you as a spirit soul had hundreds of incarnations why don't I remember because you are the shadow now when you attune yourself to your inner reality you will remember it is because now you are using only a handful of clay a handful of earth which are the human brains to express yourself as a personality when you start by introspection attuning yourself to your inner nature to the kingdom of the heavens which is in your nature then you will remember you can remember now as a personality you don't remember things which you have done before a year or a week even or even yesterday you are forgetting so it is the inability of the present day personality of yours which is not remembering but you are not supposed to remain that now you have just to be reborn as Christ said in the Bible he explained all these things to Nicodemus but unfortunately the priest the first priest cut off many parts of it why? because they wanted to deprive from human beings second opportunity they said no, now either now yourself or eternally you are dumped because they had been dumped fools they have presented to the human beings the mess he forgot the Father as the worst saddest and criminal which is foolish