1- The Many Mansions of Mind Vitality as Universes, Worlds and Planes Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us quite being in temptation and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself in your total wisdom and your mightiness in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Living and thinking, being able to think. It's a proof of the existence of God. I repeat it. Living and being able to think. It's a proof of the existence of God. Because it gives meaning to what you call life. Why? We see phenomena of life all around us. In the cross material world. Of course, studying all these phenomena of life, of the vegetable kingdom, of the animal kingdom, we can see, we can trace, we can find the total wisdom behind every phenomenon of life. Sing it. You see the harmony. You see that nothing is beyond the ability of an intelligence concerning that kind of life. You see many, many things in one kind of life. And you see in all things the total wisdom concerning that kind of life. Therefore, we can think and reason. So seeing life all around us, we see that all those phenomena of life are living. Are they thinking? Are the dogs thinking? Are the cows thinking? Using the mind as thought? No. Of course not. They express obeying to that feeling of continuing existing, the instinct of prolonging their existence. We see what we call it instinct. But instinct is not thinking directly of the one expressing the instinct. We see all animals around us expressing the instinct. But instinct is not reasonable thought. There is in it the wisdom, the total wisdom of the Almighty and the intelligences who are creating those phenomena of life. And maybe they are living in this phenomenon of life. Living in which way? Creating angels to control them. But who is controlling them? Behind the angels are the archangels. So we can see the total wisdom in every phenomenon of life all around us across material world. But all those phenomena of life are not expressing thought, as we call thinking. Some say that instinct is a kind of thinking. No, it isn't. Maybe it is the thinking of the intelligences behind the phenomena of life, of the archangels. Yes, I admit to that. The archangels can think, are thinking, are manifesting a self. Now, we have just to see now the relationship between thinking, using the mind in a special way with the self. Yes, now we come to see that the self, what we call the self, the holy archangels are expressing an archangelic self. The human beings are expressing a human self. But there is still a self common to all, which is the absolute selfhood, which is proving us not only the existence of God, but the beingness of God. So what is God for us now? We see now God from a different point of view than we saw it in previous lessons. See it in a more practical way, because we say that God is the absolute infinite selfhood. In its omnipresence there is no place, the sense of a place where we don't see the total wisdom. That means that expression of the divine selfhood. So, but who can do that? The cows, the dogs, the sheep? Not of course. But a human being can do it. Why? This is the proof that a human being having, expressing a self is God, similar to God. He has his divine being self, expressing it as a phenomenon of life, just like the other phenomena of life, but through that phenomenon of life we call a human being, we see the divinity, the right use of the mind in thinking. Now we are using the word mind. We said in previous lessons that the absolute infinite beingness, the mind is, but it is not existing in manifestation. It is, it is the nature of the absolute infinite beingness to feel its self-sufficiency. Now we see the mind in a different mode of beingness, not of existence. Now we see the mind in existence. We have to understand the two different things of being and existing. So the mind is unmanifested in the absolute infinite beingness. Now how is the mind in the absolute infinite beingness unmanifested yet? What we call the total wisdom. And the all-mightiness, it is there. So we find the total wisdom of the absolute infinite beingness in manifesting in itself inwardly, not yet existing, the mind. So the mind is of much, much importance, and in the world of beingness, and in the world of the beingness, and in the world of existence. We cannot understand what is the mind unless we study the mind in the lowest manifestations of it in the cross-material world. So the lesson today is just to understand the mind in the world of existence, manifested. Now we said in previous lessons, we are manifesting the mind. It is the nature of whom this mind, as we call it the mind supersubstance. Now what is the supersubstance? We cannot know exactly, since it is formless. It is motion, motion but without anything moving. So how can you trace motion if you don't have something moving to see it moving? And see it moving, you see the thing moving. Can you see motion causing the movement? So it needs much thinking to understand that seeing something moving, there must be motion in it, or using it to move. So, can you connect now the mind, supersubstance, and in all, in all these manifestations with movement? Definitely! Unless you see something moving, how you can understand what's mind, what's thought? Movement in time! Unless you have that movement in time, how you can have a thought? That is rather a little difficult to understand that, but that's the reality. So now we just connect the mind to what we call movement, motion. How can we use this word, a better word? Motion, movement, this is the same thing. Then we see the mind in the manifested world, manifested. Everything to exist, it is the mind. Now we can understand what is supersubstance, because from that supersubstance, unconceivable, we see coming out what is manifested, seen. We can see it now. It's creating something, and we said in previous lessons that all the universes have been created by the holy archangels, the holy intelligences, those selfhood, in the lokoic selfhood, using the mind. And we said that this mind, supersubstance, emanates from the absolute infinite beingness, and the beingness, and the holy archangels, as a result of the willful pleasure to manifest themselves, where? In themselves. Because they are omnipresent also. As omnipresent is the absolute infinite beingness. Now, more, it's not easy to understand. The real nature of all these things, it is not very easy to understand. Just using a handful of air, we call it the material brains. But of course, we can know much more when we reach that state of our existing self, the time and place self, to be awakened in the higher realms, not in need of using the material brains, but using directly the mind. But then, we are not common human beings. We are soul ecosystems, having the same form, the human form. We are still human, but still we are on a higher level, higher. Away from what I call the ground, the soil, the earth, the clay, call it whatever you like. So, shall we say now, that the material body, and the material brains, that handful of earth in our skull, in our heads, is barring out the reality from us. It's keeping us in the ignorance, definitely. This is what is making a human consciousness, no matter in which degree it expresses itself, to have the illusion, because that's not the reality, that's out of the oneness of the absolute infinite beingness, and creates a kind of separate self from all the other people expressing a self, and unfortunately from the absolute infinite beingness. So, we are in the oneness of the locus of the LCCI, of the absolute infinite beingness, yet being in a cross of material body, we have the feeling that we are different as something, not the absolute infinite beingness, that we get out of the oneness. It's an illusion in reality, because if it was possible to be like that, we wouldn't be able to live. We cannot get out of life. Now, we can understand what is life by studying the phenomena of life around us, and that phenomena of life, we call it our time and place self. Now, our time and place self, I don't mean the cross material body. We can study the cross material body by using the mind now, individually using the mind now. So, God the Father granted us the authority and the right to use the cross material mind, even separated from its oneness. He was this day our daily bread. Now, that we have the right to use the mind, the proof is that we are using the mind as thought, only as thought. Now, we can use the mind now as emotions, as desires. Still, we are using the mind as supersubstance and substance, but we can't use the mind still as ether. Now, the mind as ether becomes energy, power. Power already manifested, because the mind is power, but now we see it manifested. That power and cross matter. The cross matter is the mind solid. But solid, what do we mean solid? It's something we must understand. What is solid? In reality, nothing is solid. Since x-rays can pass through your body, how is it solid? So, now we study what we mean solid. It's something most important to study. Now, I speak of my own experiences. Solid is something we understand by touching it with something similar to the same vibrations with that thing you are touching. Otherwise, it cannot be solid for you. Now, we have a cross material body. We know our cross material body. We call it solid. It is solid for us as long as we are living in a cross material body. So, we touch things, cross material things, why they are solid for us? Because our hands are as solid as that thing. That means that hands are vibrating to that rate of vibrations as the other things are vibrating. So, we call them solid. This is solid, touching it. And what is solid in the cross material world is giving also ethereal or etheric feelings of cold, hot, and other kinds of feelings. Which means that holding, touching something with my cross material hand, something cross material, I get feelings. Why? Because in my cross material body is also what I call the body of the feelings, the etheric double, and the psychical body, exactly in the same form as our material body. Now, do you have the feeling of cold and hot and warm in the psychical plane? No. As you have it on the cross material world? No. But we have a kind of feeling there which is giving you that it is pleasing or displeasing to the various degrees of feeling pleasure or, we can't call it, displeasure, we can't use it, something we don't want it. So, the same thing applies to the so-called noetical world. Now, if I am out of my cross material body, I say I am speaking from my own experiences, and I come in this room. Now, of course, this is not an easy thing for everybody to do it. He must first be able to make self-conscious exosomatosis out of the material body being there. So, if you can, by practice, by training, just to express yourself except the cross material body, have the self-consciousness outside of the cross material body, what body will be solid to you now? This cross material body? Yes, as long as you are in it, you find it, it is your cross material body, solid, and you can touch and see things which are solid, cross material. If you are out of your cross material body, not bound in the etheric double, because this is a difficulty you have to overcome, from the etheric double, and be to the psychical world, and be in your psychical body, and you feel your psychical body, then your psychical body is solid for you, and everything vibrating to those vibrations of your cross, of your psychical body, are solid for you. So, you can touch things there and feel they are solid. Now, if I pass, if I am here, in my psychical body, self-conscious here, I can see all of you. Why? Because you have a psychical body. I don't see your cross material body, but I see your psychical body, in your material body. So, a fellow in exosomatosis, that means in, out of the material body, self-expression, is finding the cross material world, of course, quite easy to approach, though the cross material body is vibrating in such a way that you feel that's not your world to stay. So, you have to practice how to lower down your vibrations, to be in the cross material world. This is the difficulty they find. Those who depart from the cross material body, you call them dead, to approach and be too close to the cross material world. Because even if they come here, they find that attraction from another state. They cannot stay. They can be near their beloved ones, see them, try to talk to them. But what is the first impression of those who are living in the psychical world, soon after they leave their material body? Can they see their material body there, dead? Some do, but the angels, the angels try to make them not see their material body dead there. If they are self- conscious of all these things, they can just see it. When they can see it? If they know what we call exosomatosis, getting out of the body self-consciously, and you can see your material body there, entering it or going away, of course, it's not difficult. Passing away, just to see what you call material body dead there, then you know, I'm not dead. It is the material body which is dead now. But of course, the angels are laughing. Yes, that will not affect you. See it then. Because you are practicing, you know these things. Otherwise, the angels try, when a common man passes away, not to see his material body dead. But just to be convinced that they are living in their body, in their psychical body, considering it solid. And it is solid. Of course, the psychical plane is solid for them, because material body is not solid for them. They can pass through cross-material things without even noticing them. So they are losing the sense of solid. So solid is something we are feeling and not something which is in reality. So solid for a man leaving his material body is when he is feeling the solid through a body vibrating to the same rate of vibration with the things they are considering solid. So, for a fellow who is living the cross-material body, even in exosomatosis, one who knows how to do that, and for those who are living the material body by the phenomenon of the death of the material body, not of their death, there is no death for the personality. Solid is the word vibrating to the same rate of vibration with the body they are living in. So, if I can be here in this material world with my psychical body, and I see things, because I have their psychical counterpart. If I concentrate in these things, I can see them. Can I move a chair in the material world? Many times I have tried it. No. Because when I try, my hand will pass through it. That is not solid for me anymore, living in my psychical body. And if I want to move it, if it is necessary to move it, I have to lower down the vibrations of my psychical hand to the vibrations of that thing, and then I am able to move it. But, what people there will understand? That they see something materializing and moving it. And if you want just to move something in distance, never mind how far, it is very easy to go there with your psychical body, or even project an elemental of yourself and control it in far distant places. But how is that elemental? You see the psychical state, not in cross-material. You have to materialize it, so that it will move something cross-material. How? By lowering the vibrations to the rate of the vibrations of the solid thing you want to move. So, those who are living in the psychical world, the psychical world is for them real, and not the cross-material world. And I say, if they can descend, descend, why? The cross-material world is here, the psychical world is here and many kilometers around the planet. So they have to lower, just to descend themselves to the surface of the cross-material world. And I say that for those who are passing away, there is an attraction upwards which prevents them to stay in the psychical atmosphere of the cross-material world. But by training they can come down. Suppose a fellow can come down to this cross- material world from what we call, they call it spirit world. It is not yet the spirit world. The spirit world is much, much higher and here also. They come here, the spirits, they see people. These are certain spirits who approach the earth, you may call them earthbound if you like, who are influencing people living in the cross-material world and then we have the phenomenon of spiritualism which I don't approve. So, what are the mediums? Are there sincere and real mediums who can come in touch by the vibrations, just creating the vibrations to descend with that? Are there mediums on earth? Yes, of course there are. Those who by nature or by practice, sitting for development as they say, they become self-conscious of their etheric double because that's the in-between. They can just be in attunement with entities or beings, entities or beings, I will explain that, living in the psychical world. With entities living in the psychical world, I mean the elementals and the beings staying in the psychical world, the beings of those who have departed from the cross-material body and they are living in the psychical world or in higher worlds. The higher you are living, more powers you have just to descend to the lower worlds. That means development. So, why I don't approve spiritualism? Because as people now are using these mediumistic powers, coming in touch with the psychical world, they are not self- conscious to this world and self-consciously aware with this world. How can they know that they come in touch with an entity there or with a being there? An entity, I mean an elemental. So, there is much deception. They may be honest and sincere, but elementals could come and must get it that they are the beings. That's why I'm against spiritualism. Unless one is awakened, he's self- conscious to distinguish and understand this is an elemental and this is a being. And if one is able to do that, why should he come in touch with these beings or elementals? On the lowest plane, that means on the material world, and not himself go there where there are a lot of mistakes. Be more aware of that world. So, I say the psychical body of a human being is a reality. For me, yes, because I can use it. Self-consciously. The psychical world is a reality, which is where? And here, and many thousands of kilometers around our planet. Beyond that, not the psychical counterpart of the cross-material world, our Earth, they say that every cross-material body in space has its own etheric double and it has its own psychical counterpart. And I'm telling you, no human being living on this planet, living in a material body, or living in the so-called psychical counterpart of this planet, can leave the planet. He can be in the 49 sub-planes, it depends, of this planet, the hells and the paradises, according to the vibrations of his shell in which he's living. But no human being with his psychical body can leave the psychical so-called counterpart of the planet. Definitely. Even if they say they have gone to the other planets, or they are coming from the other planets, they are in illusion. They are mistaken. They think so. I say again, with the psychical body, nobody can leave the psychical counterpart of this planet, of the Earth, paradises, or hells. But, when a fellow, a human being, as a soul now-self, not as a personality, even hearing to his name, male or female, feeling it, being independent of soul-self, still being, what is his sex on Earth, as long as that fellow is living in a material body also, develops his self- consciousness to higher levels, to what I call, to his noetical body, he can visit the noetical world, and of the planet, and of any other planet. Why? Of the solar system. Because, though the psychical counterparts of any heavenly body cannot come in contact with the other psychical counterparts of any other planet, the noetical is just the ocean in which all are in it. So, he can go. I would make it plain. When one succeeds to be self-conscious, to use self- consciously his so-called noetical body, he can leave the psychical world of the planet. He can go to the noetical world of any other planet of our solar system. Now, I'm speaking again from my personal experiences. Being there, can you come in touch with the psychical world of that other planet? Yes, if you know how to lower down your vibrations from the noetical body to what I call your psychical body, and then know and move about self-consciously to the psychical counterpart of that planet. And I'm telling you, that's most difficult. It is not an easy thing. Can you materialize on the other planet? Going down, lower your vibrations to the cross-material world of Mars, or of Venus, or of any other planet? You can, provided that planet, the cross-material of that planet is not the same as our material world. And so, you have to learn to know the physics of that planet. As you can, through your noetical body, create, even create another psychical body, an elemental, on this planet, and then even materialize it in the cross-matter, you have to train yourself for that. You can do that also in another planet. You'll put the question, have you done that? I don't have time for that. There is so much cry of pain on this planet, and you have given just a promise to the most beloved one, to stay and serve here. I can, but I'm not willing to do it, neglecting my work of mercy on this planet. So, for me, what Joshua Manuel de Christ said, in my father's house, there are many, many impulsions. It is not something he said, and I believe it, but something I know it's true. It is. Yes. In our father's home, his father and our father, are many, many mansions. That means many, many worlds. That's why I'm using always the word universes, and not universe. And all those wise ones who have lived before us said, your universes, Allah, are full of your glory. Many, many wise words. So, this planet, Earth, now human beings know much, much, much about this planet, since they can go around it, flying around it, with jets and everything. It's very small for the human beings now, and now they want to search other worlds. They make a mistake. They want to visit other cross-material worlds. They move. They try to go to Mars. Why don't they try just to contact these worlds? In another dimension. This is what's wrong with the orthodox science now. They are still bound on the cross-matter. What is their gain if they go to Venus, or to Mars, to Moon? They have gone to Moon. They went there, walked there, found the conditions there, and that's knowledge. That's good. But is that the right direction? No. They are wasting their time. They can study these worlds with other means, by knowing the worlds of other dimensions, and other dimensions. It's much easier for them to visit these worlds, and see even the cross-material counterpart of those worlds. That knowledge will be given to them. Seek the Kingdom of the Heavens, and everything will be given to you. This is great truth. But, of course, searching the cross-material counterpart of those worlds, how do they know of the worlds of other dimensions connected with these worlds? That means the psychical counterpart of Venus, or the psychical part of Mars, or the noetical world of Venus, or the noetical world of that. So, they are on wrong direction. For how long? They will find the necessity now to see, but after it's not only the cross- matter that counts. They started already to understand that there are other worlds of other dimensions, which they should study, should know more about it. And besides, it is the world that sooner or later we have to go. For how long a human being will live in a cross-material body? More than 100, 150 years. So, God the Father is giving us the lesson, you stupid ones. Your life in a cross-material body, in this cross-material world, is not endless. And you know now, using the mind, the animals cannot use the mind and know that there are other worlds, and there is another way of life, and what is even the meaning of life, living instinctively. But we are God. We can study and know our nature, besides the cross-material body, as our emotions, and come in conscious at the beginning, conscious contact with our psychical body, and later coming self-conscious contact with our psychical body. That studying and studying and practicing, can see that we can afford ourselves to hire planes to come at the beginning again, I say, in conscious contact with the neurotical world, and later in self-conscious contact with the neurotical world. Which means, coming to the reality. What is life in the world of existence? We are still in the world of existence. So, in the world of existence, we find the cross-material world. All the cross-material counterparts of all the heavenly bodies, in the human space. But I say to you, we must get to other directions, to other dimensions, and we must start from the fourth dimension of our cross-material world. How? By studying our fourth-dimensional psychical body. Develop it. Live in it. Be conscious of it, and then self-conscious of it. And then, for us, living in the cross- material world is possible. And live at the same time in the psychical world of our planet. That means, getting to another room of our house. So simple as that for me. Being aware that in our house is not the only one room we are living here. There are other rooms, bigger rooms, bigger halls, and I can enter in them and see in them what it is. So,