1- Understanding Elementals Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting thyself in thyself, as thou art total wisdom, and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen. We said that the absolute, infinite reality is the absolute, infinite beingness. God the Father, the source of everything. This absolute, infinite beingness is in itself sufficiency. But in this absolute, infinite beingness also, in its total wisdom, is also the wish, if we call it like that, the will pleasure, to manifest its total wisdom where? In itself, of course. This absolute, infinite beingness is omnipresent. So this will pleasure, to manifest its total wisdom in itself, emanates from it what we call the mind. The mind is a super-substance. In the absolute, infinite beingness are billions and billions and billions beyond numbers of beings in it, similar to the absolute, infinite beingness, immortal. They have the same qualities with the absolute, infinite beingness, which is the self-consciousness, which means the selfhood. We tried many times to explain what is selfhood. Of course, it's difficult to give a definition. Awareness of being maybe is the best expression. How these absolute, infinite beings in the absolute, infinite beingness are, nobody can say. But the time this absolute, infinite beingness can express its will pleasure to manifest itself, when? It was always. There was not any sense of time in which there was not this will to manifest itself. Certain of these beings in the orders of the principalities and the authorities in the absolute, infinite beingness start co-vibrating to this will pleasure. This co-vibration causes the emanation from them also and from the absolute, infinite beingness, beingness, just their nature to express this total wisdom. These absolute, immortal beings co-vibrating to the will pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness, we cannot give any name to it yet, but classify themselves according to this total wisdom and the work they are doing, the creation of the universes, classifying them in their orders, their archangelic orders. How many? Nobody can say. Nobody knows. But we can trace and know certain orders of these archangels according to the work they are doing in creating the universes, becoming also the lords of the elements. Now, what are the elements? Certain degree of vibrations of the mind's super-substance, because everything, all the universes are created by means of the mind's super- substance. And I said many, many times, when we say mind, we don't mean a handful of matter which is in our skull. I gave the example. Just a battery is not electricity. It might be charged, but it may not have anything and be thrown away. So, must have in mind that in the omnipresence of the absolute infinite beingness now is the mind. It was unmanifested in the absolute infinite beingness, but now it emanates from the absolute infinite beingness, the absolute beings in it becoming now Allah, our God, the absolute infinite beingness. So, understand the difference between beingness and beingness. We don't have a second God. So, I'm God in a new expression in itself, the locus, the El Shaddai, according to the old Egyptian language and to the Aramaic language. The Greeks call it locus, but what's locus in the Greek language? Manifestation, it means. So, God manifested, presents itself as the locus. Now, we said that these beings, beings now classifying themselves into their archangelical orders are co-creators with the absolute infinite beingness now. Yes, but now each order had a certain work to do, cooperating with the other orders to create the universes, the worlds of existence. Now, we see a different thing. Beingness, beingness and beingness and existence. The beingness and the beingness are everlasting, but the worlds of existence under certain laws are presenting something starting with a beginning and have an end, as everything in the world of existence, everything in the world of existence has a beginning and an end. Which is the law of this world of existence? The duality. Everything in the world of existence is dual, is in the duality, which means the divine, everlasting, immortal side and the mundane, the worldly, which is always under change, the law of change. Now, in a human being is this duality. In the other side is the spirit, soul, ego, self, immortal God, our real self, everlasting, in eternity. And in a human being now, in us, it's the mundane, which is our personality and our bodies. Our cross-material body, it's etheric double. The psychical body, it's etheric double. The noetical body, it's etheric double. The noetic body, now we call it body, the work of the holy archangels of the creation, created the human being, how? To the image and according to the likeness of God and of the holy archangels, which means life. Now, we can see what we call life now, because everything is living, stones, crystals, everything is living. We can see now what we call life in the cross-material world, in the other world, in the ethereal, in the psychical world, in the noetical world, but we see life in different kinds, this life. What is life? Again, it is very difficult to describe, though we are also living, but now we have to see it in the double way. Life itself, which is God as beingness. As beingness, it is the archangels, that's life. Life everlasting in eternity. But now, we see life now in the phenomena of life. How many phenomena of life we have just only on the cross-material world? Beyond numbers, from the atom, the amoeba, the worms, the flies, the butterflies, everything, the animals, the trees, everything. We have no count the phenomena of life and you can see now life as God, as motion. You cannot understand life on the cross-material plane if there is not what it is in it, movement. The substances are moving in the trunk of a tree to spread, create branches, leaves, flowers, fruit. So, we see the constant, continuous motion. The animals, the circulation of their blood in their bodies and growing, growing, growing. They start from the semen, all the animal life, birth, coming into existence, coming to existence, in the words of existence, and growing, growing, growing, growing, till they reach the end of the circle of their possibilities in existence. And just, so all phenomena of life have to surrender this, what is called life in them, to their source, to life. So, we have now to study the phenomena of life and life. The phenomena of life, it's not difficult just to study them, see them, learn much about them, but what's life? No human being can know what is life, though a human being is living. It's a phenomena of life before that human being reaches that point of manifesting itself as the spirit, soul, ego. That he or she now, beyond sex, in their I-ness, in the real ego, the mortal self cannot know what's life, because they are the life now. So, we understand life beyond the phenomena of life. So, we now see that in the words of existence, starting things in the words of existence, we must see the dual, analyze it, and understand it. Now, I had a question from one of our seekers of the truth the other day, of the inner circle. Yes, Rascal said, yes, we understand our dual existence and our being. We are soul, spirit, ego, self, divine, and we have, and we think we are the cross-material body, our bodies, and all that, because we are spirit souls. But you said the animals, all the animal life around us, do not have a soul. What is the divine, double part of them, in them? It was a very good question. He said, yes, of course, you are complete as the self in your duality, which means you can, according to the Bible, image a likeness of God to be both. And while being even a human being, expressing yourself as a pretty time and place self, your personality, develop that part in yourself, just to this point of knowing who you are, by using consciously sometimes, not subconsciously, as you do now, self-consciously the mind, to have it a means to understand who you are. You have your self-consciousness. While the animals are living, they are expressing simply the instinct of being animals, and nothing more than that. But they have the divine in them, which is the angels and the holy archangels behind it, creating it. Shall we say that all forms, any form, in the vegetable, in the animal kingdom, in all the kingdoms, manifesting just a phenomenon of life, has behind it an archangel and the angels, just corresponding to our spirit, soul, self? Yes, that's the great truth. But this duality is not pure. The divine side is ruling the lower side, giving it an expression. But they never, these archangels and angels, combine themselves with the phenomenon of life. They use it. But in our case, very rightly says the Old Testament, God and the holy archangels have created man as a phenomenon of life, to their and to his image and according to their likeness. Many are reading this, but they don't understand what it means, the image and the likeness. Of God. So now we see the human being. Which is the image of God in a human being? Which is not in the animal life? God as absolute infinite beingness, and thus the absolute infinite beingness has in it its plurality, in its oneness. That is, the oneness in it is the plurality. Oneness, the absolute infinite beingness, the absolute infinite beingness is plurality. There are billions and billions and billions and billions of beings, all the archangelic orders, which have never detached themselves from the oneness of the source. And now what's the difference of these beings, the holy archangels, from the Father? Because even Joshua, feeling being the son of God, feeling being the Logos himself, he said, the Father is bigger than I am. So what is now the difference of these holy archangels, these immortal beings, classifying themselves in their archangelic order, from God? The way they express themselves, creating, is getting only one side of the total wisdom. And I will give just a real example. You have the light. The light is colorless. Can you see the light? No. But if you have a prism, a diamond, something, and put it in the light, then you see the light, red light, green light, all colors, the seven colors. All these colors are the light. But compare each color, light, with the light. This is the difference. So what is the absolute infinite reality, beyond the phenomena, is the absolute infinite, for us, beingness, not the beingness. Nobody can trace this absolute infinite beingness, God the Father. So, being image of God, or Allah, as Joshua used to call it, we have in us our plurality, in our oneness as our present day personality. Which is this plurality? Which is created by us being part of our personality, yet we are not that. These creations in our plurality have part of ourself, which withdraws from them, when we disenergize them. Now you understand what I mean, plurality. It is the elementals composing your present day personality. That is being image of God. Now we come to the point. Everything we see, without even concentrating on it, with everything which draws our attention, not even creating anything more in us, for the time being, everything that excites, what we call in us, desire, wish, to know it, to approach it, and later, to have it, to possess it, everything is creating an elemental, without our notice. And everything in nature, the law of nature, is the form. And those which we call now elementals, because they are created by the elements, have their form, a form. The human beings cannot see them, because they don't have cross-material form. But they have a form in our desires, in our thoughts. We call them emotion thought- forms. And though they are not visible to the cross-material eye, yet they have in them much power and strength. Sometimes even to crush their creator. This, of course, psychiatrists calling them fixed ideas, and giving them certain names, without defining them, without knowing their nature, and how to deal with them. So, how many such emotion thought-forms, we can classify them there also, are composing our present personality, the present personality of George, John, Helen, Mary. Studying the behavior of these persons, studying the way they are living, their desires, their emotions, their passions, their weaknesses, and all that, we can understand the quality of these elementals. They can be a legion of such elementals. And we can classify them. In our research, we call them human demons and human angels. Why? Everything that is causing dissolution, as hatred, envy, certain passions, we call them human demons. But all these elementals, usually the thought-forms, using the right thinking and the right way of thinking, are creating elementals. We can call them human angels, creating. We will see in them what we call love in its various degrees of expression. So now we know from what is composed, I think this is the word, of the present-day personality of a man. And you can never find on the planet two people, male or female, being the same, because their plurality, their emotions, are composed in the personality. But yet this personality, composed in this way, has the parts in it, their life, your ego-self. That's why I said before, it's you, and yet not completely you, your personality, which is composed by your... Now, we speak more about these elementals, studying the nature of these elementals, which are created by human being subconsciously. Eighty percent, we must classify them, demon elementals, human demons, and only twenty percent can be just classified as human angels today, unfortunately. Because most of them are created by the emotions, the desires, and the weaknesses a human being has. And the cause, the main cause, from which Lord Buddha wants to detach the human beings, is what we call attachment to, and the desire of possessiveness, having, getting, and enslaving yourself in what you call yours, a jewel, house, property, and all that. So rightly, the Enlightened One of the East, Lord Buddha, put us first in detachment from things. Now, we see now these elementals you create. First of all, they have a form. A clairvoyant can see them. Second, they have in them energy, so much energy, according to the desire of the fellow who is creating them, and the thought. Now, studying an elemental, a common elemental of a human being, we classify them, I said, in two classes, by studying it. Emotion-thought form, or thought form. Why? If the three-fourths of the existence of this elemental is a desire, an emotion, a weakness, we call it demon, human demon, is a desire, it has in it also the thought. How? To be accomplished. What to do? So, we see it in this way. If in that elemental, there must be a desire of knowing, a scientist, studying, finding ways, because there is a kind of desire to know. But more is the thought, the right thought, good thinking. It might be ninety percent pure thought, and one percent the desire of knowing. So, we see the degree of emotion and of thought composing these elementals. Now, these elementals, we said, and Joshua Manuel de Cresci is describing them in the New Testament. How are they created? By the mind super-substance, the form of the mind super- substance. The mind is granted to every human being daily by God. Now, when an elemental is created, it's not bigger than the point or the head of a pin created here between the nose, inside. Let it be a very big construction, let it be a vast space of land. The one who desires having it, not bigger than that. But when it's created, it comes out. To get its right measurement, dimension, coming back even so small as the head of a pin entering in us, but having in it everything in the desire of the fellow who created it. So, you can see here, in the root of the nose, a studied elemental, not bigger than the head of a pin, of a big, big construction in the mind of an architect. So, now come to another point. What are measurements, sizes, and how to understand size and measures? Many times I have studied these things. I had a friend of mine, a big architect, who is in our circles. He got created just such an elemental of a big construction of many, many, many flats there, living in them, seeing everything, even the fountains, and how they will be made, and this and that, everything in that. That elemental was not bigger than the head of a pin, just in his mind, as a form, but form complete. As the holy archangels are creating the seats and everything, and everything has in it the circle of the existence of that kind, a human being is doing it also, but subconsciously. So, we are together, and I told him, what is in your mind now, I said, sir. He said, yes, it's something torturing me, the nature of how to do that, and that, and that. And I, seeing it, seeing it, I just imagine that, how, how big, what size, as the head of a pin. Yet, I couldn't enter in that construction in his mind, because that was in a different dimension, not in the cross-material body. We are the image of God. I told him, I know what is really troubling you. You want to make an apartment, I said, for yourself and your family, and you are thinking, if you make the fountains, cold, gilded, what the other people will say, and when you show them, and of course, he started asking, how did it come to your mind? That's true, because I have entered, I said, in your reconstruction, and I have seen what is in it. I tried to explain to him, how, and sizes, and things. So, imagination is a real thing. Imagination, no. But concrete thinking, and making forms, is real, because we are the image of God. Now, of course, it's rather puzzling to you, because you cannot understand anything beyond what we call normal and real, but reality is far away from what you are calling real. So, that elemental was so strong, and couldn't leave him quiet until he had built that big. How do you think all these constructions around you are built? By that. So, with these elementals, the human beings have changed even the face of the planet. How? Subconsciously, not self-consciously. So, even subconsciously, through these elementals, you can do many, many, many things. Just think, what you can do, if you are doing it consciously, and later self- consciously. What can you do self-consciously? Not, of course, all this trouble, gathering matter, and all that, and employing people just to bring that big thing there. No, you can do it self-consciously. What Joshua Emanuel was doing self-consciously, just materializing the mind vitality, feeding 5,000 except the ladies, the women, and the children, just materializing into bread and fish, the etheric vitality. Just imagine how much stuff as bread and fish you need to feed so many people. He has done it. In the Bible, you find it, in one case, feeding 5,000 except women and children, and in another case, 4,000. I am telling you, he has done it many, many times, feeding people. Not in great numbers, but feeding people with the etheric vitality, materializing it. So we come to another point, materialization of the mind super-substance, which is a proof now that you can do it. And what Joshua Emanuel said, whatever you will ask in prayer, what is prayer? Believing that you have it, you will receive it. And that was the truth. But now we come to another point. What does it mean, prayer? What does it mean? Believing you will have it, or faith. A human being today is all doubt, about himself he is doubting, about his abilities he is doubting. So what can he do? Now, we said, creating with you are, every human being, desires, emotions, elementals. How do these elementals are working? In two ways, directly and indirectly. What do I mean? Every elemental, never mind if it has the size of the head of a pin, it can get out and get the normal size, and get back just to this size, as the head of a pin, most powerful. Directly, influencing the man who created it, to use the mind and think how this desire will be accomplished. The fellow is thinking, I must work, get money, earn money, buy things, and do what I like. It's a direct way, which is not, of course, very, very strong. Or he has other passions, other elementals, of theft, stealing, doing, yes, I will steal some money from a bank, I'll do that, and I'll get the money and buy it, or some other means. There are many, many ways. See how that elemental is working in that personality of a man or a woman. Many ways, very powerful. Indirectly and with much strength, leaving them alone, they have the power of bringing to you what you wish and you desire. Your wish will be accomplished, fulfilled, sooner or later. Now, we like to have something. Many times I heard that from many people around me, that's coming. Yes, I was longing of having that, that, and that. As long as I was thinking, for months and months, it didn't come to me. But I had other thoughts, something other, interesting me, and I forgot all about it. They have come to me. I said, yes, because you gave them time to work. All the time, when they were going out, you were bringing them in, by remembering them again. Loading them with your desire, more, making them more strong, going out, remembering, come back again. You must stop thinking about them once you create them, so to give them time to do their work. So now we see the two kinds of activity of these elementals, through us, influencing us to find means and ways, and their own way, which is their nature, because the mind and the elemental created by the mind, even calling it an evil elemental, tends to fulfill the way it was created, why it was created. So we must have that in our mind. And we'll find out that many, many, many such elementals, they will be fulfilled in another incarnation, in a future incarnation. But when you develop and develop and develop, when they are fulfilled, you find that those desires of yours are now stumbling stones on your way. They should better not be there. You don't want them now, but you made them. This is what makes human beings now living on our planet rich, less rich, poor, very poor, and all that. It is the elementals which had composed their personalities in past incarnations. Now, in past incarnations, do we believe in reincarnation? Yes, definitely we do believe in reincarnation. Of whom is that reincarnation? Suppose you are in an incarnation, Ahmet. You are born now, John. Is Ahmet born into John? No. And you are now John. You think that new personality, you call it yours, who's been incarnated after some years, somewhere else, in another place of the planet. Different way of thinking, living, and being. Is that you today? No. When you now in this incarnation, rich, you are right self, you are real self, the spirit ego, the ego. Then, of course, the ego has the right to say, yes, oh, these are incarnations of mine, but not you. The second and third and fourth page of a book is not the fifth and the sixth and the seventh page. They are pages of the same book, but they are different. This is how reincarnation was taught by Joshua the Christ. What it is in the Bible? It says, when they ask him, it is in the scriptures that Elijah is coming first to put things in order. Because the Jews believed in reincarnation. What did he say? Elijah has come already in the spirit of Elisha. He didn't say as Elisha or Elisha. In the spirit of Elisha, that means the spirit which incarnated Elisha is incarnating now John. The spirit soul of Elisha and not Elisha. Elisha is becoming now a living shadow in the cosmic consciousness. Because when you reach that point of being able to see all these things, you will understand, yes, that you have just a relationship with your past incarnations as a spirit soul being and not as any expression of it, the personalities. But as people now are believing reincarnation, even in this, or the English people, it's a misleading mistake. Definitely, no human being can be incarnated into an animal. No animal can be incarnated into a human being. That's definite, clear. Why? Because it's a different course of development and advancement of that kind. So this is our just difference with what other people believe in reincarnation. The spirit soul can be incarnated and not the shadow or the present personality with its vices. Is there any relationship between the old incarnation and the new incarnation? Many times I hear people ask, what is now, is it karma from past incarnations? Well, there is some truth in it, but not absolutely. Because you are given new chances now to work. But the present incarnation of yours has in it what I call the permanent personality, the in-between, the personality and the soul, which is common to all incarnations. But this needs much study to understand when it brings forward the lessons of the past incarnation, if those lessons had not been learned. So what you call karma is not a punishment. It is the means of learning, knowing and advancing.