2 - God, Archangels & Human Beings So, in our bodies, in our material body, in our psychical body, in our mental body, and in the intellectuals of these bodies, we can meet our Michael, our Gabriel, our Raphael, since we have the habit of possessiveness, and what is in us we call ours. What I say rather, we belong to them, not they to us. Never mind. Let us be human and say, our Michael, our Gabriel, our Raphael. This will not displease them, don't worry. They will like it. So, constantly under the orders of the Holy Spirit, of course, infinite beingness as the Holy Spirit, and as the Logos, the Holy Archangels, are working and building our material body, the etheric double, our psychical body, the etheric double, our mental body, and the etheric double. Building to keep it in good health. So, it's natural to have good health. To be ill is unnatural. So, using creatively the formless super substance of mind, in building up our bodies. But now, no constructor will start building, just a construction, a building, unless he is given a plan from the architect. So, a plan has to be prepared by the architect. According to the plan, the constructor, the foreman, and the workers will build the construction. Now, the Masons are right in calling the infinite beingness, the Chief Mason. They call him Mas, which means the greatest architect of the universes. Omega's Architect of Zimbabwe. So, there should be a plan. But, what is the plan given to the Holy Archangels for building and working and keeping working? The idea of man. The heavenly man. So, all of us are sons or daughters of man. The heavenly man. That's the plan for humanity. The Holy Archangels are working with. So, we said that in each human being, in his material body, in his psychical body, and in his mental body, there is a Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, a Uriel, and also a Shaman for the skeleton. They build, they said, the bodies. The material body, the etheric double. The psychical body, the etheric double. The mind body, the mental body, the etheric double. They are the workers. Our brothers, never getting tired, loving us. Working in our bodies. But now we spoke about the present-day personality. Who is building the present-day personality? The Archangels. No, the Locos. That's why we say we are Locoic. The Locos is building the present-day personality. But Shaman interferes as the Devil, as the Church is calling it. So that we have the conflict. So, we have the present-day personality. A different entity from the bodies. Yet using the bodies. The present-day personality lives in the material body by grace and not by authority. Because the present-day personality knows nothing and is doing nothing for the material body, besides getting ready-made food to eat and wash it. What can you do for your material bodies? Nothing. But now, as regards the psychical body, it is around that that the present-day personality is built up. The emotions, the desires, the intentions. Now we see a mechanism. Of what we call the mind as sub-consciousness. It was the last one I gave you this morning. From that very moment, the sub-consciousness gets the dual function. Under the orders of the Holy Spirit and the Archangels is beating the bodies. But the other side is what it creates the consciousness. And then the consciousness is the surface. And the sub-consciousness, the depths. So we say that the consciousness and the sub- consciousness are one. Yes. The same way the ocean has a surface. The surface is the consciousness. The whole ocean is the sub-consciousness. So, we start now as an entity, separate entity, living our own lives. Now we have male and female. The Holy Archangels are doing that, obeying certain other orders. But now I have an entity we call the present-day personality. Extended to the permanent personality, which must hold the reality. So that the present-day personality, in that illusion we call space and time, will not be lost. So we have that constant, steady path, which we call our permanent personality. Which is a line with two ends. Now, if you have a big line with two ends, and you have a point in between the two ends, that I mean in the middle part of the line. From the middle part of the line to the outer point, which is the ego-self, or the soul-self, is bright light. But from the center of the line to the other side we have all kinds of colors. We may call them dirty. That's the present-day personality. Now, from that point to the other side, which is not the clean one, we separate the line in three parts. One is the physical body, the other is the psychical body, and the other is the mind-mental body. So we have a line divided in four parts. Half of it is the three parts, the physical body, the psychical body, the mind-mental body, and the other part, brilliant, always, never getting dirty, is our permanent personality, or our ego-soul personality. What is the reincarnation, and who is reincarnated? The withdrawal, gradually in time, of the, say, the colored part of the line, first withdrawing only to the psychological plane, and then to the mental plane, and then to the center of it, is the present-day personality. The expanding again, recreating those three states, is the new incarnation. But what is the relation between the one incarnation and the other incarnation, who both are in the illusion of time? No relation. That's our difference from what we believe as reincarnation, and what the others, the Hindus, or even some English people, are saying reincarnation. So the one reincarnating is our ego-permanent personality, or soul personality, which brings the sum total of the experiences of an incarnation, to give them, not as memories of events, but as lessons which have been learned to the new personality. This is the only relation we have with our own personality. And no personality of a man can remember a previous incarnation unless its consciousness extends from the temporary to her eternal inner self, the ego-self consciousness, which knows everything, lives in everything. So, of course, this is something the masters are not ready now, either to reveal or to teach how to do it, before we purify and clean our, what we call, present-day personality. Are there dangers for that? Yes. Instead of advancing, going backwards. That's why the Divine Mercy of the Lord has withdrawn the memory of past incarnations to the new incarnation, to give it time to advance, because there is also something common with past incarnations. The new incarnation has the sum total of the lessons learned, without remembering events. Because remembering events, it may drive her back. Now, we have children born, some of them geniuses. Others? They are not. They have a talent. What's a talent? Experience gained from previous incarnations, but not necessary for them to remember events. Maybe painful events, but have only the experiences of the lessons gained. So, a searcher after truth, studying the present-day personality, his present-day personality, and in expression of others around him, not as a present-day personality studying, but as an ego-self personality, can convey to his present-day personality the wisdom. You tell me now, are you dual yourself? Say yes. I am a name, a way of feeling, thinking, and I am I. I am dual. I am Stelios, a main person. But I am I, who can control Stelios, and his emotions, and his thoughts. Yet I am one. I am a line with two points. Everyone is dual. Even Christ, the Lord, the Lord was dual. I and the Father are one. So, the duality is alone. I don't know if that duality is also amongst the Archangels created, but I will study it. Of course, I don't have time. The pain around us is so strong that we don't have time to study things, but to give help as brethren of mercy. But yet again, why? Why? The heavenly man has a plan to be worked out by the Holy Archangels, our brethren. Create a man in duality. Two lobes of brain, two eyes, two nostrils, two ears, two lungs. Even the heart has four chambers. Two and two. Then we have two other organs. The liver and the spleen. For a man, two bones. For the woman, two ovaries. Why two? Two feet, two hands. Why? Of course, I say I don't have time to study that. Getting the wisdom of the Architects, that means my brethren, the Holy Archangels. Let it be in the future. But then, are you in touch with the Archangels? Or affiliated with the Archangels? The Michaels, the Caprils, the Raphaels, the Urials? Yes. Yes, if you are affiliated with your Michaels, the Caprils, the Raphaels, you are with all. Because we said that the Archangels are systems. And you are all alone. They are not just like the human beings in the world of separateness. This is our difference from our brothers, the Archangels. Are the Archangels feeling sorry? Or feeling the joy? Yes, they are feeling it. Because they are intelligences. They are men that they have the super-consciousness. And one who has gained his super-consciousness can come in touch with them and understand them. Because they are behaving, creating super-consciousness. It is rather difficult to explain. But they feel joy. What Christ says, joy is in your angels in heaven, for everyone returning. Returning means what? Finding the truth in Him. So, the Archangels feel grief and joy. When we are doing wrong things, do they feel sorry? Especially our guardian angels, the Metatronios? Yes, but their sorrow is different from our sorrow. And their joy is different from our joy. Very different. On many occasions, I try to attune myself with them to understand what is their joy. I have succeeded to a limited extent to understand it. Why? Because my human brains were not able or incapable of receiving those joy vibrations of our Archangels. Sometimes, I would develop them to the extent that they would not be buried by full attunement with them. Maybe I will do it. Now, our contact, myself and them, are not through the material planes. Because there is a danger of being buried. To attune myself with them, I must get out of my material body, out of my psychical body, and out of my mental body. Remain, I am I, and then it is possible to attune myself with any of any order of Archangels. I have done it on many occasions. It was their desire, their wish. When I am amongst them and say, how do I look now? In what I call the fire element. One of them, with the Michaels, a McCree. With the Caprells, a Caprell. With the Uriels, a Uriel. With the Raphaels, a Raphael. Of course, those who will be very advanced and will make the exercises for the symbol of life, they will be taught by me the way how to attune themselves with their brethren, the Archangels, in them and outside them. So, can a Michael attune himself with a Caprell? No. Can a Raphael attune himself with a Michael? I think no. So, we are privileged to have, through our consciousness, then the super-consciousness, what I say, attunement, and then attunement. These are great, great words, which very few understand their meanings. What we call attunement and attunement. These are the roads leading us to our equal spirit self, who is God. Then you realize who you are. When one, as Jesus Christ said, returns to that state of conception, they feel great joy. Such a great joy that really we cannot understand it as human beings. Our joy is childish joy. Their joy is the joy of the Philippine-ness of our Father in Heaven. But now again, in the world of separateness, there is grief or sorrow. Is there grief in the higher realms, beyond the mind? When I say beyond the mind, I mean beyond the mind in forms. No. Happily, there is not grief. But grief is the characteristic of the world of separateness. And as long as the archangels enter in a way, mysterious way, they cannot understand. In our world, as cooperators for the creation, they feel sorrow. But that sorrow, their sorrow, is not our sorrow. It is very different. Maybe it is what gives us distinction of consciousness, giving us the lessons which we have to learn. Even Christ, who is God himself, Son of God, who is the master of everything, of the material plane, transforming energy into matter, into bread and fish and feeding so many thousands, who is the master of everything, the material, of the psychical and the mental sides of his existence, definitely very different to ours. But what did he say? Anima mea jusque ad mortem. Anima mea, as long as he was feeling pain, a soul, he was feeling sorrow. So, sorrow touches even our permanent personality. It is touching us as a soul, equal self. But beyond that, there is no grief. There is no sorrow. What is there? Tranquility at first. Peace. Silence. And then? What is after? Bliss. What is bliss? Pleasure. What is there? What is just? Says the reverend Father for that. Beatitude. That is beatitude. Mercariotis. You have those. Even you have them in Latin. But I don't know if the English people have such words. What do they mean? They say bliss, and of course with the word bliss, they think they finish. So, is that beatitude? We call it? Yes, beatitude. Salud. Yes, that's it in German. Please. Beatitude. So, I have spoken about all the brothers, the archangels. Each one of you in your material body, in your psychological body, in your mind body, have one Michael, one Gabriel, one Raphael, one Shaman, and one Uriel, and other servants working for you. Building up your bodies. For you as a present day personality and as an ego, soul personality, living in the material body. So the material body, as the church says, is the temple of God. And we are living in these bodies by grace and not by authority. Because we do nothing for the bodies. No. Do we give thanks to our brothers for their valuable work in keeping our bodies in good health? Who is giving them thanks? We should give them thanks. Now, what's a prayer? Because people do not know how to pray. What's a prayer? Just repeating words without meaning. Anytime we are just praying mechanically, thinking about something else. I had a friend who was just saying the prayers. And then he said, can I say that? He said, I don't know. He said, say it again. So what's a prayer? Concentrating our self to the higher meanings. Thanksgiving. Giving thanks to the Archangels, to the Holy Spirit, to the Absolute Being in us. Thanks at the beginning, love following the thanks. Ask, shall we ask for that or that? Jesus Christ permitted us, said, ask and it will be given to you. But he said that to the Jews. To the stiff, naked Jews. What about the Christians, should we ask? He said, your father knows what you are in need of and he will provide you. Yet he gave us the Sunday prayer, give us this day our daily bread. As if without that, he will give us our daily bread. I think, the researchers of the truth, yes, they may repeat the Lord's Prayer. You say that in German, give us our daily bread. Yes, they may. Because it is just to repeat it. But in reality we should give thanks only. And glorification. Never mind, we say that for the others, not for us. We can just resolve it this way. So, I think everyone should give thanks to the intelligences. We say, for the archangels. Now, are the archangels thinking? Since they are losing mind, of course they are thinking. But how they are thinking, the way we are thinking? They are thinking creatively. Their thought creates. The human beings have that creative thought. They have abused that, made very bad use of it. Even fighting, using the elements. The fire and all that. And so the absolute being has decided to withdraw from the human race. He created thinking. That means, thought to create. Shall we regain it again? Yes. The psychotherapists partly regain it. When they become masters of matter. And by visualization, and their will. And attunement to the intelligences. Can make those phenomena, people call miracles. But I said again and repeat, there are no miracles. Everything that takes place in nature, is a phenomenon. It's only one miracle. Life, living, is a miracle. So, do the archangels have a language of their own? What Saint Paul says? Because I am sure Saint Paul was in conscious communication with the archangels. What does he say? If I talk all the languages of men and of the angels, and I don't have love, I am nothing. I am just like an instrument causing noise. Do the archangels have a language of their own? I tell you, yes. Different? The Michael's and the Gabriel's and the Raphael's are talking different languages? Yes. But, don't talk. You will put me in a question now. Do you know the language of the archangels? I tell you, yes. I do. But, is the language of the archangels sounds and words? No. It's reflection of light and shades, making you understand what they want to make you understand. Now, how will you understand it? Human beings cannot understand others unless they know their language. But when you advance to the mental plane, and you read the thoughts of men, when they are thinking in English, you are feeling them and you are hearing them speaking Greek, on your language. Which means the vibrations create that familiar thing in you to make you hear in your own language. So, apart from the sounds and the words, are the meanings and the vibrations. And in mental reading, you translate the vibrations. So, the languages of the archangels are vibrations of love and understanding. Any archangel can know the language of any other archangel of any other order. Though, they have different shades. What are these shades for? Beauty. They give you their own beauty. And there is a different beauty of expression of the Raphaels from the expression of the Michaels and the Caprils. But I cannot explain more. Yet, I tell you, I can understand it. And the language of the archangels is so sweet. You know that those who play music, and who know music, can attune themselves more easily to the language of the archangels. Because they can hear divine symphonies with meaning. So, it is rather music. They talk. Maybe you will hear chord recording music or the spheres. It is the talking of the archangels between them. So, it is things that it is very difficult to explain. And I wish all of you some day to reach that point of hearing it. That doesn't mean what we call clarity. It is something still higher and higher beyond what we call ecstasy. You go to the realm of the super-consciousness. Attunement and atonement. Any questions? One thing I didn't quite understand. Why was the plan to create man in duality? I wish I knew it. But as I said, I may find out. But we don't have time for that. I just thought you omitted it saying it. Yes, really, this is my question. This is my question. But do we have time for that? As long as there is so much pain all around us, we do have to serve. Could we assume that without duality there wouldn't be any experience? I don't have come to conclusions without being 100% sure. Because even in telling something, even now I have been misunderstood because they say sometimes you say different things, they say you say different things. And they think they are saying mistakes. There are no mistakes. Because there are not such as mistakes to be corrected, but truth to be revealed. More of them, and more of them. Good. I don't know. This law of duality, I am studying it now, I think what I call the dialogue in you between your present personality and your subconscious. And then we come to another point. Is that dual dialogue in you, yourself as present personality with your subconsciousness, which is something among, between you and your permanent personality. No, it's both. So you must be in a state to separate one case from the other case. So it's not easy just to come to conclusions without just being 100% sure. Because these are very very difficult things, especially getting to conclusions in the world of illusion. But it doesn't mean that we should just not trust our mind in learning. So slowly we will reach the truth. Yes. I wish I knew. Did you mention the color of Samuel? The color of? Samuel? Samuel? Yes, I will tell you. Samuel is imitating infinite beingness color. Infinite beingness color. As locusts and as Holy Spirit have the color yellow. You see? Samuel has a kind of yellow which is like mustard yellow. Now, just compare that trousers with that color yellow. There is a relation, isn't it? But it's not the color yellow which is light. Now, of course it is different from the red, black, red color of Michael or the violet color of Raphael or all of the blues of the blues color of Gabriel. There is a relation. The earth, a rock is yellowish. There are yellow rocks, aren't there? Not color yellow? Yellow? Sorry, yellow. And what he does? He tries to imitate in his work the locust color. What's the locust color? And the Holy Spirit color? White. Snow white. The first expression. The symbol of life. And it is above that. That's why your tongues have the white color. That was for my mystery until I was in touch with him and I saw his work. Then I understood that he imitated like an ape the work of the locust. That's why many Hindus are calling Samuel like the ape just imitated. Just a monkey. Just imitated. Does Samuel have intelligence? A just intelligent highly intelligent Michael. A super consciousness. Highly intelligent Raphael. Highly intelligent Gabriel. Highly intelligent Julius. I have never seen an intelligent Samuel. But I see a cunning Samuel. He has a kind of big cunning. Cleverness. That's why he just catches sometimes our subconsciousness. He is playing tricks to us. That's why we must get rid of him. He is the builder of our records. He doesn't like to kill our records. He is the Minotaur in the maze according to the Greek mythology. The Christian religion is calling him the devil. But is he the devil? Is he evil? Is a policeman evil because he is catching the thieves? He is working in the divine plan. That's it. And he maybe is the lord of the world of separateness. He has his role in the creation. Of course we cannot say publicly much. And now start praising him. The reverend father would not like it. Anyhow. He is playing his part in the creation. And there is something else. There is no evil which is not giving a most precious lesson. And the ancient Greeks said which means there is nothing evil which is not giving the lesson for good. So it is in its place also. It is needed. And of course sometimes people are telling me why did you not teach me or tell us? And we made so many mistakes. I said if I tell you you will not learn it. Maybe you will oppose me. By doing mistakes now you learn. It means that you get direct knowledge by your mistakes. Am I right or wrong? Because sometimes I have just this question. Why you didn't tell us? Why should I? So if you tell us we would not do that mistake. You did that mistake. Now you know it was a mistake. Excuse me? What? It is the human nature to listen not object. Somebody complained to me and he said why did you not advise Makarios? Seriously what Makarios would listen to me? I loved him and that was all. And he loved me and that was all. Advising what? On one occasion of course I was upset. I was upset him he did something which they resisted. And the bishop now to be to him. And then I repented. Bitterly I repented. Because I told him you are the cause of all evil in Cyprus. Why you excommunicated I said the bishops? Why you made them your enemies? And true to that I said our churches are in the hands I said now of the Muslims and you are responsible for that. But of course he heard that the bishop now talking oh he should not say that he said no he is divorced from the church he said but really I should not say that.