2 - Gods in Exile One says, since we cannot see them, what can we do? They are not visible to our material eyes. We cannot see those elementals. How can we fight with them? Fight! That means strengthening them. That is something one should never try, to fight with these elementals. Because sooner or later, he will be defeated. Yes. One can just ignore them, forget them, convince himself or herself that these things are not interesting to them, and then that is uninteresting. But until then, one says, we don't see them. How should we know them? Yes. You are lucky you don't see them. Because if people see the elementals they create, in terms of an anger, a feat of anger, or being jealous, or hating people, they will be frightened themselves. Such hideous forms they take these elementals, just attaching themselves on the auras of those fellows, absorbing their etheric vitality, so that they will leave. Maybe it is the mercy of God that makes human beings not able to see the elementals he or she are creating. But how can you work with them? Yes. By what I call introspection, looking within, boldly entering into that part of your personality, which is the material body, the etheric double, and the novel, the psychical body, everywhere in the psychical body, in the analytical body. Just concentrate in this part of your so-called subconscious mind, and by introspection, and looking within, just check the quality there. The quality of your desires, of your emotions, of your intentions. This is what I call introspection. And this is the duty, not of the seekers of the truth, of every human being who wants just to get rid of all the miseries in life. So studying the desires, whether fulfilled or not, the emotions, what he feels, and their quality. You can't say that all emotions are evil. But when they have in it the emotions, the sense of possessiveness, dominating, influencing, they are evil. Whether this is in a human being, as a husband, or as a wife, one should boldly enter in this subconsciousness, and check the nature of desires and feelings. And how that individual was using the thought in bringing those feelings and those desires into an effect. That's a difficult work, indeed. Quite a difficult work. Because at that time, your egoism would present itself, just a reason in itself. Then you feel sure that you are that egoism, that present personality, yet you are the one who is checking now, studying circumstances. Just study that thing. Who, what am I now? Am I the egoism of the personality? I had the mistake all the time to think that that was myself, just deluding me. But now, I start just checking, trying to know. And I can know the quality of the desires and all those emotions, just checking all the time. Checking whom? Of course, the egoism. But the egoism likes it. And you also, who are not the egoism. So that is the most important time to know the difference. Between the thinker who can take decisions and the egoism fascinated by the desires and the emotions, deceiving us that it is ourself. It is not difficult just to find these differences. And then, what happens? You will find out that this egoism of yours, of your personality, being a man or a woman, is sometimes very, very cunning. A real devil. You should be just very careful. You are not me. I thought I was you. But now, I am not you. Now, by starting just checking the desires, the emotions, and the thoughts, how the thoughts are going to serve those desires, he can get his conclusions. No. Then, that fellow, even as personal self, because we said, God, ourself, is in the personalities, will feel being the master of circumstances and his personality. To reach to that stage, it is important to neglect and dis-energize the personal egoism. But one can do it. And must do it. Because there is no other way to get out of the illusions, of the agony, and of all those evil things in daily life. This is the way. There is no other way. The way of introspection and right thinking. And then, getting decisions to cause the changes. And find the right way to do that. Because, I said, fighting the elementals, you will definitely sooner or later be defeated. By disentangling the personality now, self as a thinker, from the influence of those things around. By convincing yourself that you don't care anymore about that or that. And then, you dis-energize those elementals. Influencing you. Torturing you all the time. To let them go in what we call the cosmic memory, the cosmic consciousness. To sleep there until somebody vibrating to the same rate of vibrations, sequence of vibrations, will throw one of them, revitalize it, and make it part of his personality. So, you have to work hard and sincerely with ourselves. In introspection. Working in understanding the nature of the desires. Of the emotions. All the emotions. Checking our behavior. Entering our subconsciousness to check our intentions in life. These are the most dangerous. We should get rid of. These are directing our life every day, what we call the intentions of our present personality. I think the so-called orthodox science on psychology and parapsychology should engage themselves to study all that. Instead of opening the books and take instructions from Freud, Jung, and all those nonsense. There is only one book you can rely on it. The book of our life. Studying our life. Studying within. I had a professor of psychology in a university. Of course, I will not mention his name. He wouldn't like it. He came to me with a pile of books of Freud and all the things he came just to discuss on certain things. I was laughing. He was speaking and speaking and telling and telling. Professor, you are wasting your time. Because what you are telling? You get results as causes to reach to decisions by seeing other results. You know what you are doing? It is as if I take you in a field and a river is coming from somewhere just flooding all that field and you get a shovel and you start just stopping the water running from here, just to stop it from another place and then the water overflows and then you start again doing it in vain. What you have to do is find the source, go there and change the route of water and everything will be alright. The water will not overrun. He was just thinking, I think, maybe you are right. No, I am right. It is not maybe I am right. He said, but think. Of course, I have shown him some other phenomena. We spoke much on it. He turned the book and said, no more these stupid books will mislead me. I said, unfortunately, my dear professor, you are saying it is in its infancy yet. What can we do? Work on it. You work. Just start with yourself by introspection because there is not great difference between you and the others. Study yourself. You may know the personality of others also. And then work on these lines in future. Now he is working on these lines and I am sure he will present very valuable books to serve psychology and parapsychology. But that is not the work only of a professor of psychology. It is the duty of every human being, man or a woman, so that that human being come out of the troubles, the illusions of the daily life. To know where each person stands in the society. Now if somebody would ask you, are you satisfied of your life? You will find hundred reasons not to be satisfied. And I am asking you, why do you think that God had sent you to live in a material body? In a material body with so much work from the archangels to build it in every moment, to work in it, to keep it in good order for you to live in it. So much precious work just for nothing so that you say you are not satisfied of life. That is a blasphemy against God. Because God has done it having a reason behind it. What is that reason? You think, to wake us up, to become masters of our bodies, all the bodies, the material, the psychological, the ethical, and stand up and know what we are and who we are. You say, yes, shall we be satisfied and happy then? I say, definitely you will. Because if you have to live in the material world, in the material plane, coming things which in the past were shaking you, now they pass without noticing them too much. They will not just torture you. You become, what I call, patient and tolerant towards the others. You will not see now the behaviour of the others as crimes. Yes, you may see them as stupidities, but not as crimes. Then you change completely your attitude towards life. Well, is that not something worthy doing? To free ourselves from the troubles, from pain, and from the modern illness. You call it angst, agony. Really, I don't understand that. Unless I find it a kind of stupidity. I hear it very often from many people, Cyprus, everywhere. I have that. I say, what kind of illness is that? I don't understand it. But I feel it. Yes, of course you feel it. Why don't you get rid of it? You are creating it. Why should you create it? Instead of doing so, it gives me insomnia. I cannot sleep during the night. That's your fault. Find a way to get out of this trouble. So, every human being now finds himself swimming in an ocean of ignorance. We should better come out of this ocean of ignorance. To find ourselves, find who we are as human beings, men or females. I'm not going to just reject our present depersonality. For God's sake. You are just where the absolute, infinite, super intelligence has chosen to put you there to get the next lesson. Nothing is by chance. Everything is under the divine plan. So, it's not by just rejecting the present circumstances and conditions of your life, but studying them, correcting them, so that you go forward. Nothing to abandon and reject. But start knowing who it is. Free yourself from the influences of everything around you. Never undervaluing anything, but never overvaluing anything. Again, using the mind in a reasonable way. As God, I said yesterday, is giving you the air and the oxygen to breathe. You don't make any effort to breathe. The Holy Archangels undertook even that, that you breathe subconsciously and your material body to live. Now you have just to breathe the mind, not subconsciously, self-consciously, and use it as a reason to live the proper life, the true life, in all the planes of the worlds of existence. They are good. All are good. Though I don't believe it myself. I say something I don't believe. At least the material body, the material world, never makes good. So we have just most of the people are so fascinated with the material world, so why should I just say I'm not satisfied? But believe me, knowing the higher, higher and higher realms, and reaching to the stage of this self-realization, you find this well-lighted by the sun world very gloomy and very dark. So, now we'll make an exercise. Now, as I get from your minds, most of you are suffering from certain so-called illnesses. Most of them are in your imagination. But they can be developed into pathological because what you have in your mind, good or evil, comes. Studying the subconsciousness, you should know all that. Yes, some people have pain here, or in their head, or here, or there. I can't say they don't have. They have it. But that does not see just causes which do not exist. See that your material body enjoys the right etheric vitality. But you are not exhausting it by being angry, hating, overworking. One should just see how one is living. So, then you'll have a good health in his material body and in his psychical body. Now, have this in your mind, that this very moment one archangel from each order of the archangels is working in your material body and your other bodies. A Michael just giving warmth in your body. Gabriel to give you the liquid and water in your body. Raphael, to feed your etheric double in your body with the etheric vitality. Shaman just provides you with the cross material for your material body. And these angels and archangels are cooperating perfectly to build in this body of yours certain organs. The eyes, the brains, the tongue, the thyroid, the lungs, the heart, the glands, the liver, the pancreas, the spleen, the genitals, the most important part in the order of God. Feet, hands, so many things in your body. Now, this moment, they are working perfectly to keep it in good order. What right do you have to cause illnesses in that body of yours? We call it yours while it isn't. It's theirs. By a way of living which is not the right one. Agony, hatred, just desires, unbridled desires, emotions, most of the time, egoistic emotions, just burning up the etheric vitality which they need to keep the material body in good order. So, it's natural to be healthy and to be ill is unnatural. So, you help them do that. Breathe deeply with a comfortable breathing. Feel you are in this material body of yours. You call it yours. You have the right to call it yours. Feel you are in it. Breathe deeply and thank them for what they are doing in your bodies. Bodies, not only the material, the etheric double, the psychical body, the nautical bodies. They are working in all your three bodies. Thank them. And promise that you will use now the super substance of the mind in the correct way. Right thinking, logical way of behaving and of living. We are favored by the absolute infinite beingness to use the mind. I say again, the mind is not a handful of brains in the skull. We are allowed to use it as right thinking to make our life, temporary life in this material plane, just that kind of life which gives us pleasure to us and to the others around us. We don't have the right to cause pain to the others around us. You can ask, of course, the help of these holy archangels in your bodies. You can ask, of course, for the help of your guardian angel. You are talking to him and talking to him without knowing it. If you do that, you will thank the absolute infinite beingness life because you are part of that life. Ask and it will be given to you. Knock and it will be opened to you. Ask a healthy material body. You need it to be healthy. Ask help so that you use the mind in the proper way to face your present day duties having just a companion, a husband, a wife, children to fulfill your duties towards God and towards man. Enough. What do you think you are doing now? Praying. That's the right prayer. Not just reciting words and words and your mind loitering about to something else. A prayer is just reaching what I call the truth, even the relative truth. This is a real prayer. Now.