2 Now we see, the Archangels using the mind's super substance, emanating from them, I don't think we have any other word, in creating the universes and everything and all the phenomena of life, most wisely. We see now the human being, a petty time and place, personality, wrapped, I said, with the veils of darkness, of their own human demons, their elementals. You said, what are the elementals? No, the divine, absolute infinite beingness, in its mercy, so that we live, and I live, I mean the petty time and place personality to live, because we will live, always, as gods, as spirits, soul, self, so that the present day personality should live by the mercy of God. God is giving, say, a certain amount of this mind's super substance every day, every moment. The mind we are receiving every moment amounts in 24 hours to a certain quantity, not more. Say, if we call that this quantity, we get every 24 hours, it's 100 units. We need 40 units, or the Holy Archangels use these 40 units in creating and sustaining our bodies. We need another, say, 40 units, as a means to live, because everything we do, thinking, moving, going here and there, as a car needs the essence and the benzene, so we need that mind vitality now, mind vitality, so that we manifest ourselves in the way we are living. Another 20% is left to us to do what we want to do with it. That's the mercy of God to the present day time and place human being, as we are, all around us, they are. Now, how is a human being living now in our societies, in Europe and everywhere, using the 40% for his needs to live his own life, and leaving the 40% to the Holy Archangels, or exhausting everything, in stupid ways, of thinking and of living? Of living, how do I mean exhausting this mind vitality in living? How they are living? First of all, keeping in themselves the devils devouring and destroying this vitality, which are the human demons in them, the elementals. They want food to live, and they want this energy to live, and they have them. I put it more plainly. How? By keeping yourself hatred against people, despising people, having complaints against people. So this means that these elementals in yourself, to keep on living, keeping you hating, being jealous and doing what you are doing, and searching for an opportunity to take revenge of him or that or that, is exhausting this mind vitality. And, in the way you are living, if circumstances are such that you express more of these, while, not to say wicked behavior, in getting angry, furious, shouting, and all that, you destroy the whole amount of this mind, super-substantive substance in yourself. What is the result? Now, you see a fellow who is very angry, shouting, raging, you see him immediately becoming red, because it is the circulation of blood, and then after that, exhausted. After a seizure of anger, the man is feeling exhausted, yellowish. Now, observing this, it proves just this truth. You are burning down that etheric and mind vitality, which you need to live and express properly yourself. Now, is there any punishment to those transgressing the laws of nature, from God or from any archangels? No. The holy archangels, when you make damages, even in the body, by anger and everything, they do it just to make reparations. They are loving. Who is punishing? Is anyone punishing a man? Yes. Himself. His behavior. So, by our behavior, we get the reward due to us, according to that behavior. So, we must know that all these things we have in us, which are the causes of illnesses, even of cancers and everything, we are responsible for that. Because the holy archangels all the time try to remedy the illnesses and these conditions. And we don't cooperate with the holy archangels in us. So, if one is ill, it is his or her own fault. Now, or karma, maybe also karma. But, even so, why should not, being under the burden of these circumstances, not come to reason, and by observation and right thinking, to find the cause of the illness and to remedy the condition? The Mother of the Christ was teaching all that. Not only to His disciples, healers, and to His companions, but even to the whole world. And, that illnesses is the cause of our transgressions, is proved by what Joshua Emmanuel the Christ was doing. Before healing a fellow, what was he doing to him, saying to him, or to her? Your sins are forgiven. Because unless the sins, the transgressions, are forgiven, no healing is possible to take place. Unless a man repents, changes his mind, he shouldn't expect miracles. Because we have that in our mind. That's why in our work, in healing, we promise nothing, yet we disclose nothing. Because the patient should cooperate. And, of course, we are not Joshua Emmanuel the Christ to have the authority to forgive sins, at least to the extent he was doing it. So, but we can just teach the people around us, what are the things, as they are, to make them understand, to use properly their mind as right thinking, to see things and change. Now, the church, knowing all these things, the first fathers, have taught what we call repentance. Repentance, why? Because unless you repent, you don't have the necessary change for the recovery. But repentance, in the sight of the church, scientifically, how we call that kind of repentance? Because all people do not like just this religious terminology. Do we have other words to be accepted by scientists? Something corresponding with what we call repentance that the church is suggesting? Yes, self-analysis. In repentance, you study things, you understand what is what, and you have a change. What are you doing in self-analysis? Is it not the same process? Is it not the same thing? So let us call it then self-analysis. And what a confessor is doing to help people, a good psychotherapist can do, by what we call making a self-analysis of the fellows. And teach them the right way of thinking, of living. So now, science and religion are giving the hands. Because even what we call repentance is scientific. It is a necessity to the personality to achieve its purposes. In the same way as a psychiatrist will do. If one is a good psychiatrist, if one is a good confessor. Because unfortunately, we don't have good confessors and psychotherapists now. So to be a good psychotherapist should be a scientist. And a good confessor is also a scientist. Because they have to deal with the soul personality. Soul personality, what does it mean? There can never be a personality, a man or a woman, expressing a self as a personality unless the parts of this personality is the soul. And in the time of Joshua, they were dividing this thing into two states. The soul which is sinning will die, that means will change. So, we must know that in every human being, in his time and place present, ego-self as a personality, wrapped with the veils of darkness, and ruled by the demon elementals, human elementals, the parts of life in it is the soul. And the aim is not that that part which we call wicked or evil, to die or to destroy it, but to transmute it into its own nature. Because it's not understood what we call death or annihilation. So, a human being, man or a woman, even being most wicked, in it rests the soul, shall we call it essence, in it. And this has to purify, sooner or later, the whole personality of a man. So Joshua said, the mortal will become immortal, because its nature is immortality, and the changing will become permanent. These are the meanings of the sayings of our Lord, Jesus Christ. Now, conclusion. As the holy archangels are using the mind vitality, transmuting it into mind etheric energy, and even matter, to build our bodies, to manifest and express their total wisdom and their almightyness, to us, to study it, to live in it, live in a material world, nobody can doubt the total wisdom is not ruling the world. So we should understand and find our place in what we call life, because we are the life, our spirit, soul, egos. And just see and study our duality in the world of existence. Now, instead of just obeying to the time and place, human demon presenting itself as our highness, as an angel of light, because nobody admits that he is not good, never mind that he must be worse than beasts, yet we must get the real control finding our self, who is our self, who can use the mind vitality, and who is misusing the mind vitality. First we must understand what is the mind vitality, and using it as thought, as thinking, as emotions, as desires. And then study what we are doing with this mind vitality. What are we doing? Slaves, now the time and place, personality of course, not ego, self. Slaves of desires and uncontrolled emotions, just creating in our subconsciousness that part of our personality, that dirty and bad smelling muddy pool, which you call weaknesses, passions, hatreds, enmity, which is separating us from the oneness of the absolute infinite beingness. So, seriously now, we have just to separate ourselves from the shadow, which is not our self. And I said, I give much, much importance to what you call introspection, looking within, and the self-analysis, and that's what Emmanuel said, entering in the kingdom of the heavens, which is in us, in our spiritual ego-self. There are no excuses, because saints, enlightened ones, wise ones, Buddha, Confucius, many, many others, have shown the truth, at least partly, the relative truth, and that God directly has been humanized to a human being, not coming out of the wholeness of the oneness of God, testifying and proving the truth. What's the excuse for us? Everything is given to us, to live on the cross-material world. Really, by observation, seeing around you the nature as it is, it's a paradise. And we made it a hell, or rather, we have created and built in us, and around us, our shell-hell. Everything is nice, and everything is created, has been created, and will be created, according to the total wisdom of God. So, we have just to acknowledge this great truth, by observation and right thinking, and bless ourselves, even as a time and place petty personality, but reasoning now, becoming a reasonable entity, and not stupid, not wasting and making bad use of the divine gifts given to us, which is the mind, the essence of thinking, of thoughts, and of emotions. Checking, observing, understanding, and then later, deciding, and being able to control these situations, is the great gain. I am I, a son of God, and of God. You separate yourself now from the time and place petty, personality, with a ruling demon, human demon, which is the personality, egoism. Unless you crucify the egoism of your personality, I'll use the words of Joshua Manuel de Christ, the most beloved one, unless you shorten your cross, and follow him, follow him with the cross, why? To be crucified. Unless you crucify the time and place, evil, egoism, don't expect your own self to be resurrected, your real soul. This is the first crucifixion, most necessary. In our simple life, it is just above the emotional, towards the heart, the first cross, you see. So I'll repeat the words of the most beloved one. He who wants to follow me, let him shorten his cross, and follow. There is great meaning in these things. So, what's the lesson today? Not make bad use, misuse, of the divine, mind vitality, as energy, and as anything else in the material world, but making good use of the mind, so that we'll find who we are, and what we are.