2- How to become master of Time and Circumstances And now, on the work, we said yesterday, that we find ourselves as a personality in a human material body. Most of you know very little about the material body. How many organs are in the material body functioning for you? To keep your material body in perfect health. Now, the orthodox science searches for it. Yet, you know you have a material body. Under the care of the holy archangelic orders. Now, under good care. If we don't interfere in their work, with an innocent way of living. Any seeker of the truth, should study the material body. You can get a good book on anatomy. Really, the orthodox science is praiseworthy. To make that known to every human being. Is it necessary for a seeker of the truth to study all that concerning the material body? Is it necessary for a seeker of the truth to know all that concerning his body? Just to understand what is going on in his material body. And understand the total wisdom of the creators. To understand that most great wisdom. And cooperate with them in keeping that material body in perfect health. Because though, Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, said that the flesh and the body is nothing. It is the spirit, not Christ, the spirit who is giving life. Yet, of course, stones there mean nothing. But stones can build a temple, a church. And he said that the body of a human being is the temple of God. So, from this point of view, it is worthy. Now, how these holy archangelic orders are working in the body? Through the etheric double. And we said that the etheric double is the mould. The mould. In which and through which every organ, every atom, everything in the body is created. Created. How? We must have the means of creation. Which is the etheric vitality. Our daily bread we are asking. Our daily bread we are asking for. And we know that a certain amount of this etheric vitality is given to us daily. That means, better said, through the day and during the night. Jesus Christ said, Father, give us this day our daily bread. Since the Father is giving it. To every phenomenon of life. In all the kingdoms, the vegetable and the animal kingdoms. And in another saying, Christ said, Whether you ask the Father or not, He will give you. Because He knows of what you are in need of. Then why should we ask? Just for us to convince ourselves that we must have it and we will have it. Not that He is in need of asking Him. And that we will have what we need. We will have what we need. Jesus said, Who is that human being when His children ask Him for fish, will give them a snake to eat. Or when they ask for bread, He will give them a piece of stone. And you, human beings, cunning beings, know how to give good things to your children. Your kind, most merciful Father doesn't know what He will give you. For what you are in need. So, God is giving us daily our daily bread. A certain amount we need and more. What is our duty? Not to waste it. That mind, etheric vitality. What are we doing? Are we wasting it, burning it without reason? Yes. Now, if I say, for example, the Father is giving hundred units every day. Forty are needed by the holy Archangels to look after and construct the material and the other bodies. Forty? We are using it. Moving about. Thinking. Feeling. Everything we are doing is burning this etheric vitality. Just as a car, a motor car is in need of this and she needs to move about. So, our bodies are in need of the etheric vitality. Where is this etheric vitality? In the air, in the oxygen we are breathing. In the water we are drinking. In the food we are eating. Yes. And in the air we are breathing and in the water we are drinking and in the food we are eating. The holy Archangels separate it and work with it. This is our daily bread. This is the etheric vitality which is materialized from energy into matter, living matter. Which the holy Archangels need. So, we have every day during the whole day these hundred months. So, this etheric vitality is in what we call our subconsciousness in our etheric double and in the other etheric doubles. The seeker of the truth should be in contact, conscious contact with his subconsciousness and work with the creators. So, we have to learn and understand the quantity and the quality of this etheric vitality. Quality. We have many qualities of this. Yes, we have. We have the pure crystal water which you contaminate and you make it too mud. We have. And we should know how to keep it crystal clear. How to contaminate this etheric vitality. Which is in all the etheric doubles of the three bodies. By negative feelings and negative thinking. So, we are responsible for that contamination. So, a seeker of the truth after learning the existence of the bodies. Now, especially the psychical and the noetical body. He has as a personality ego now wisely to use this etheric vitality. Not making the mind dirty with unbridled desires insane emotions with wrong feelings vices enmities cruelty jealousies So, he should know the nature of this kind of mind substance. What will be the gain? The present day vitality used properly will become that kind of body of ours clean and capable to express our selfhood. Will become more able to live our human life in the material body. And controlling our desires our emotions and cleaning this subconsciousness will gain our selfconsciousness in the psychical plane. Will open the gates from the material world to the psychical world. In the world sooner or later we will go there. That means gaining the selfconsciousness in the psychical world. And what about the noetic world and the noetic world? By controlling the desires, the emotions and correcting things by controlling the desires, the emotions and correcting things by using the mind that means they go together. You must first gain selfconsciousness to the noetical plane you must first gain selfconsciousness to the noetical plane and then you will find that you are selfconscious in the psychical plane. So it goes together the desires and the emotions can be controlled by the thoughts and the mind. So we say we live in our psycho-noetical body now. By working and developing in those levels the selfconsciousness you see that these two are going together the phenoetical and the psychical. Then how we are sure that we are progressing by expressing now new powers of self ego soul personality which are these powers? The attunement to we can concentrate on something and know everything concerning it. And now you find out that you are controlling the sense of time. How? Time is needed to know something. It takes time with the present means to know something. Reaching the attunement to a single moment might correspond to hours. In understanding and in knowing that's what I say you gain control over time. So you have time with a different sense now. And what about the attunement or the oneness you gain later? There is no such thing as time. Anymore. You enter in the eternal present the eternal now. Now, according to my own experiences are you losing the sense of time? Entering in the eternal now? No. But it's something you have now. It's not something you conceive living compulsorily. Being there you can see anything you like on the cosmic memory. You make for yourself the time. Which means? How can I make myself the time? In seeing something according to your choice. What I want what I choose. And slowly, slowly because there is no more time faster very fast you will be the master of time now. What is needed now is the power of understanding. Now we think we are in very deep mind waters and it needs good divers. So time for you is as you wish to have it. You can see an event in the past who had taken place in the course of certain years. You can sit entering the cosmic consciousness and see it according to your choice. If you have gained the self super consciousness you can see it slowly, slowly and enjoying everything more quickly or repeat it anytime you like. If you like it. So you become the master of time. Now, seeing in the cosmic memory you are sitting just on a flat surface like a television. No! You live in it there. You move about the events. When you start gaining the power of visualization which is on duty of the seekers of the truth of the innermost circle which is on duty of the seekers of the truth of the innermost circle then you find out that you live in the cosmic memory as being a three dimensional world moving about something else. If you were in that event you live there according to the ability of understanding moving around like all other human beings. But now entering in this scene you see when you are yourself moving about. You are elemental. But now you laugh because now you know many things which you didn't know that time. And you will make the comparison. Many times this happened to me looking in the cosmic consciousness. In things concerning me being there I could see my elemental moving about and behaving as, say, curator. As somebody else. In past incarnations. Of course I know that I was that. Whatever that element knew I know. But that elemental which is living in the cosmic memory does not know what I know now. Many times seeing it behaving I tell him, no. I understand that. So, you are reliving it. But now master of the circumstances. Master of what you see. And Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said and Jesus Emmanuel the Christ said nothing is secret and nothing will remain secret. When you reach the self-superconsciousness. Now, seeing certain things which are very very bad you have done in previous incarnations. which are very very bad you have done in previous incarnations. Now free from those wisest. How you will feel seeing them? Is that a punishment? Who is punishing? You, yourself. Everything is there. Here. Now. Because it is beyond the sense of time. Now, something most interesting. Why you don't remember your past incarnations? Why you don't remember your past incarnations? This is the mercy of the almighty El Shaddai, the Logos. You will never remember anything which will block your way to progress. You will never remember anything which will block your way to progress. And when you reach the self- superconsciousness though you see you are elemental of that time that cannot give you pain or remorse. Then you will value then you will value the mercy of the almighty. Many are coming and say they want to know their past incarnations. You will never be able to do that unless you deserve knowing. unless you deserve knowing. If seeing will give you pain. But something more interesting in every one of us is the lesson given by the past incarnations. As talents predispositions predispositions just preoccupations and feelings. So in every one of you is the lesson. Follow it. Do it. No need to remember circumstances and events. But soon that will give you new lessons the El Shaddai, the Logos which in you and everywhere will wake up your memory. Because in our spirit, soul, ego there is no such thing as forgetting. Sooner or later every one of us will see waking in him or in her the memory. Now rely on the predispositions. That means the tendencies you are going to leave. The influences. On the lesson on Thursday we will speak more about the etheric double in your bodies. The etheric double in your so called psychical body. Where are stored there your subconsciousness and the elementals composing your personality. And the nature of the mind now as thought through the brains. And how you will gain it not using the material brains. I will describe the whole way which is what? You. Ich bin der Weg. Die Wahrheit und das Leben. You will find it in you. That means work. Understand that nothing is gained without serious work. By whom? By you as a personality. With the help of the soul within you. And your holy guardian angel. With whom you must come in self-conscious touch. Contact. Though you are speaking to this archangel in you. Day and night you don't understand it. You will learn the way how to come in contact. Now we will make a meditation. Breathe deeply. Relax completely. Seize down every thought and every emotion in you. Concentrate in your breath now. Breathe deeply and feel the air filling your lungs. Breathe deeply and ask. Who is asking now? You. Asking whom? Put the question and sooner or later sometime you will get the reply. Who am I? If it comes before you. Your name and your sex and your present personality. Don't you know? I am. Put the question. You are only myself. Or something more. Who you are replying now is a shadow of the past. Today I am living and I am asking I am putting the question who am I? I didn't ask you to come forward from the past. Who am I? As life. As spirit everlasting. I am. What is that I? What is the I-ness in me? As life. What you are presenting me is my way of life. Your way of life. But I am not only you. You are a shadow. Who am I? What is my I-ness? I am self-conscious. What is self? Don't try to get an answer. Put only the questions. The answers will come from your guardian archangel in you. Now. I am living in this material body. Now I am living consciously in this material body. I feel it. And I know I am living in it. Yet very often I don't feel it. I am out of it. Entering in a state of nothingness. Which is not real. Who is recomposing me as a present personality? What is that phenomenon of the recomposing of my personality? After entering in a dreamless sleep. In the realm of the phenomenal nothingness. Yet I am I. What am I? Now I live, I feel and I think. Now this moment. How it happens that now I am and I am existing. For so many thousands of centuries has passed in time and so many thousands of centuries have passed. Where had I been all that time? If I was not, how do I am now? What am I? As a living human being. As a soul, ego being. Beyond sex, form. Or way of life. I want to separate life, myself from my way of life. Very different from the one way of life to the other way of life of others. I am life, living as everybody else. I will study the way of my life and be the master of it. The master of my destiny. On Thursday the lesson will be on the various bodies of a human being and the elementals. on the various bodies of a human being and the elementals. And the difference between the various states of consciousness. Only these three lessons given yesterday, today, and on Thursday are enough for you to work in a whole life.