2- Mastery of The Holy Mind and the Life of the self What, then, we are supposed to find? It needs much, much work and sincerity with yourselves, that I am life, and I am living now, now, in a material body, which I have to study and know what it is. and acknowledge, thanks to those who are building it and keeping it in good order. I, now, must start to search this so-called self of mine, which is not myself. It is my reflection, which is intentions, emotions, desires, certain purposes, and, starting now, the way we are living, we will find out the reactions to these desires and these emotions. We find that through these reactions are created in our personality, what we call the subconsciousness, having in it habits, weaknesses, malice, jealousy, hatred. We find the negative, now, nature of this personality of ours, which is the egoism. We study, now, seriously, what is going on in our personality. As I said in a lesson, one should boldly decide to enter in that jungle he had created, which is the personality's subconsciousness. And then, study everything, expressing our divine nature, the observation. The observation means knowing, leading to what we call the truth. So, exercising our divine nature of observation and the skill, now, of using the mind as thought, as right thinking, just check, find the value of things in our life. What we'll find out? That we are overvaluing some things and we are undervaluing other things. We have to be sincere, now, to find the real value of everything. There must be a kind of value. But I repeat it, never overvalue and never undervalue. For example, we undervalue terribly life and we overvalue things we have in our way of living. This is the first thing we have just to study. That in things in our life, desire and the feelings of possessiveness, ownership, and how. There are many, many hows. Now, we are doing it. How to check them? That's what I call real introspection, which I give much, much importance to this introspection or looking within. Self-analysis. And by self-analysis we mean our personality now. Because that kind of self-needs an analysis, not our real self, our real self, God, is not in need of analyzing it, but living in it. So, the way. Every day we must, by observation, meditation, and introspection, bring to the surface of our so-called consciousness, waking consciousness, an event which has happened that day. We have to check the behavior of others towards us and our behavior to the others. Let's say, it doesn't matter how they have behaved to us, but it matters how we have behaved to them. Have I behaved properly? Had I been the master of the situation and of the circumstances, or I was just shaken up by the circumstances, forgetting myself, getting angry, or getting wounded, getting offended, being insulted, insulting. Was that the proper behavior? Now we start thinking seriously. No, I should be calm. Instead of getting excited, which is the egoism guiding us to that, I could just, with love and with understanding, explain to the others and get explanations from the others. What is the matter in reality? There must be maybe a misunderstanding. That means being master of the situation. In introspection, in checking our behavior, now we are the soul-self and not the egoistic personality of a few hours before, who now is nothing more than a memory and a dream. To find out that our life could become past, it may become as a dream. It remains in us the experience, which is very, very precious to know, check and exercise. Precious in what? In finding who we are and who we are not. That's the great value of the introspection or looking within. Then what do you think you'll find? Provided all the time you'll be careful not to allow the egoism of your personality to interfere and give reasons. No. No, that's the measure I am measuring. The measure of the principles and not of the emotional discrepancies. Then you start living according to principles. Then you come to know, yes, I am not what I thought I was. And what I thought I was now is past. It's a dream. And even now, this moment, I am not what I am thinking and I am feeling that I am. But I am life. I am reasoning. And thus, by introspection, I bring forward in my self- consciousness something which has happened. And I study it now. And I get conclusions. Tomorrow I'll do the same for what happens now, this moment. But I can live this moment now probably by being calm and serene. And in this way you have to separate yourself, your soul, now ego-self, from the personality-self you thought you were, when you were not. Withdrawing yourself from the way this egoism, time and place, kind of ego was leading you. This is the aim of our life. To live and know why and how to live. And what's life? Seeing it from this point of view. Life is God. Life is our own divine expression. Life. And I say, and life is not the way each one of us is living mixed up in interests which are not everlasting but are just passing. Studying now our emotions and our desires what do we find? Something which was interesting us, causing us the desire of having it. That desire was very, very powerful. Of course, not all of them to the same degree. A desire, they make you think, just work and money and have what I want, what I desire of having. But desire sometimes to certain people is so strong that if you don't have the means of having it you kill, you steal, you use violence. It's something we see every day in the society all around us in all places of the world and not by individuals, by nations. Power. Things. Calling them our own. Leading to what? Wars. Quarrels in a family. Divorces. Fighting, killing. These are the results of egos. So we come to the conclusion we are not that kind of self which is our personal egoism. But we are life itself reasoning now. We don't have any excuse because God the Father is giving to all the mind to think, to use it. Just to think now seriously. As a human being to exist, let us say feeling that I am the body. I am in need of food, of water, of air, of etheric vitality which I get. God the Father and the Lord is giving. Need light and everything is given to us in abundance. And the Holy Archangels are building the material body. I am given also. The mind does understanding and feeling. And the mind which I can use as thought and reasoning. There is no excuse why we don't use it. So that we build our personality. We have to build our personality because the heart and the inner life of the personality is our own soul ego which is God and has to transmit the personality ego now to itself. This is the purpose of life in the material plane. Now, in the course of time what do we find? We gain as a personality what we call consciousness. Let us start from the level of waking consciousness. Behind it is the subconsciousness. It is the instinctive consciousness. It is the sensitivity. We can study that but no need to give much attention to that. Now, studying our present day personality we find a kind different to each one of us of self-consciousness our personality which is the sum total of our emotions and of our thoughts and of our impressions of the elementals you have created or revitalized from the group of elementals making them part of that personality of ours of our time and place self. Now, we make also the mistake that we are the consciousness. The waking consciousness. But that is all the time changing from waking consciousness to self-consciousness. Now, we start just to study this kind of self so that we separate the real self-spirit soul-ego from egoist. From this point of studying the so-called self-consciousness is the critical point which our ego does not like. Because he knows that in the course of time we will find that we are not the time and place personalities egoists. The self-consciousness we can just even without being so much precious for us expand through it, be conscious self-conscious even in the psychical plane that's why people are not remembering living in the psychical plane because they have not developed the so-called self-consciousness of the personality in the psychical plane. But did they develop the kind of self-consciousness even on the material plane? No. What I say is that we are conscious of things all around us, studying things they have a kind of waking consciousness but very few of those who have self-consciousness even as a personality when one is able just to know and feel a self-consciousness even to the personality he will behave self-consciously in the psychical plane. Now, some people are putting me the question how self will make an exosomatosis they hear of that and they just would like to have an exosomatosis be out of their material body I'm laughing because every day you make that kind of exosomatosis finding yourself in the psychical plane the point is not how to make exosomatosis or leave the material body and be in the material plane but it is just to develop your kind of consciousness to the self- consciousness so that you will carry that self-consciousness of the present personality to the psychical plane and then you will live self-consciously in the psychical plane as well as you are living in the material world so it's not a matter of exosomatosis it is a matter of developing this kind of self-consciousness of the personality which proves if we can develop a self-consciousness of our personality in being self-conscious in the psychical world and in the ethical world then it means that even in my present personality I have my divine state of being God this proves that even our personality is divine because it is difficult to explain to you these very deep things with words you have to practice them and you have to access what I call observation nothing to escape your attention and get it and use the thought and thank God who gave you the mind to know so, this kind of life now should be very precious to you what do you call this kind of life? the research and you should be proud to call yourself seekers of the truth this is the aim, the truth to know what is real to know what you are really and you cannot do that unless you get the habit of using the mind as thought reasoning checking and controlling the lower vibration of mind which are emotions desires that disentangle the thought from the emotion there is no other way but of course what I tell you it is not possible to understand unless you leave all that and by observation reach to this conclusion I gave sometime an example if I try to explain to somebody what is salty a salty thing or salt maybe the scientist wrote books and books formulas, they are AB2H2 and something like that you will not understand anything and I am telling you reading certain books from these you will be more in confusion than knowing the truth besides there are some of them very dangerous in deranging the material health but if I tell you come here put your finger on your tongue and I have a little salt there I tell you put your finger there now put it in your tongue do you know what is salt now? definitely you will know and say yes now I know what do I mean? lectures and books are not linked to anywhere you have to practice and you have to know yourself you cannot get the knowledge from the experiences of others Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said you know the truth and the truth will set you free he didn't say others know the truth and you will be free we have to practice theory I think I have given much too much to the point that you cannot afford having more but what about practice? each one must start practicing himself and be guided to know himself the truth concerning all this the most serious for our life matters so we need using the mind the right way of meditation using our divine nature of observation just try to get the skill of concentration and you will see that your life will be worth living because I am telling you most of the people are living now they have been caught by Joshua Emmanuel the Christ dead and not living sometimes it says in the bible a fellow came to Christ and told himself really I know that Joshua is wise and very good and I want to follow you I want to follow you but my father and my mother are living and they have obligations and I expect them to pass over and when they pass over I will come and tell you you come now and let the dead bury their own dead so are human beings as they are living now no matter if they are living in a civilized country or in a non-civilized country are they really living? or according to Joshua Emmanuel the Christ are dead among real dead you should practice no excuse because you can use the mind God is giving it to everybody in abundance in the same way God is giving the air to everybody to breathe and live and as God is giving the air to breathe and live if the material body gives you the mind to live as a personality and develop your personality to reach your divine nature only make an exercise now before giving the exercise I say if you observe around you no matter where you are living you will see that there is much very much poverty and misery I thought America was a very prosperous and good country and I have been informed that there are people living even in underground railway stations now we have in Cyprus much poverty also everywhere I have been informed there is much poverty and misery and pain and everywhere you go there are some people who when they are in need of some money or something they go and ask they stretch their hand and ask for alms of course people are giving them but there are some who will not do it even if they die by starvation is that right? is that wrong? really I don't know for me I would never do it even if I would die of starvation now a fellow giving something to others of course first of all if somebody is doing it Joshua Manuel de Christ said your left hand should not know what your right hand is doing that means it should be secret but what do you think you are doing? you say yes, I give from my own to that fellow because he is in need of it don't take it in this way, that is not the correct way you give to him what he deserves having because everything material created the material world to everything everybody has the right we are children of the same God who created things we should have that in our mind more than to others we are not giving from our own we are giving from his to his children they are his children as we are children so don't do it with this sense mine, I have mine and I am giving no, not in this sense I am telling you, holy providence will guide you to certain places the holy providence intends that you must be of some help to your brothers giving to them something you call it yours yet it belongs to the father of both of you give it in this sense is it only material things? some money, a piece of bread of course if people are in need of that it is something of course giving to them but when you give to people bread or some money that will be exhausted and next day they will be in need of eating again have some bread apart from the material things are something more precious give your thought, give your love give yourself maybe loving somebody as your brother in God giving an advice you may change his or her life forever that is more precious maybe the time came and the holy providence will provide for that to send you somebody don't lose the opportunity nothing happens on the material plane if that is not the will of God so we will be always ready giving money, giving bread giving material things are good when people are in need of them but people are more in need of another kind of help of our love of our care of our advices of our teaching believe me, whatever God is giving you because you don't give anything yours the mind is not yours, it's his everything belongs to the locus so be ready to please him give to his children what they must have and you be a good child to him he will like it so we should understand that we are not isolated from the locus or from anybody else around us something else when Joshua Manuel de Christ came in on the earth and the material world Palestine was occupied by the Romans of course they expected him to use his powers and everything to send the Romans away from Palestine they even attempted to crown him a king just to force him to do that but he came, he said I came to free man from his lowest self from his egoism enemy of a man is not another human being but his human egoism that's why Joshua Manuel de Christ came in the world so, what I want to say you should not separate yourselves from other people because maybe they are speaking a different language or they have different opinions about life as long as a human being is breathing the same air you are breathing, he is your brother so no distinction when Joshua de Christ said love he didn't say you are neighbor it is mistranslated in the Bible he said every other human being in Greek he said that every fellow man just to show that he didn't make the distinction the Israelites were enemies of the Samaritans and he gave an example of the good Samaritans so, no distinction every human being is our brother or our sister our father or our mother you must have that in your mind so this is Christianity now, everybody should be inspired by the divine intelligence to do his duty towards his fellow man now let's make the exercise every thought relax completely is influencing the psychical atmosphere and we are enriching our psychical atmosphere of our planet all of us, in all parts of the world with our elementals good or not good not to call them bad all human beings living now on the planet with their way of thinking and living strengthen the elementals which they receive in them and they cast them out according to their vibrations strengthening the evil, hatred malice, aggression and all that but also we can strengthen the good elementals benevolence, kindness, gentleness love, especially love to all when I say love to all impersonal love not love which is just to satisfy our personal egoism so one of our duties is to strengthen the positive energies in our planet love now send love starting from your own environment if you search you will find that in your subconsciousness there are certain people who have displeased you departed from them or being with them causing you troubles making you angry behaving to you in a bad way and you reciprocate now bring those persons you can do that by visualization in front of you try not to see them angry see those persons no more you are enemies, you shouldn't have enemies you have loving brothers differences in time and place are things which are passing sometimes as nightmares or bad dreams now see from your heart a sun radiating rosy light make your heart a sun with rosy light and bring these persons one or more, doesn't matter in front of you see that light shining on their face and see them smiling see them happy wish them a good Christmas and a happy new year and mean it these are the best gifts you can give to other people around you and tell them with your mind that you love them and love them really don't just say that only our heart should shine and only love nothing except love to all I say to you love your enemies but if you love those who are loving you prostitutes and evil people and criminals are not doing the same in what way you are different from them they love some people I am telling you love your enemies don't call them enemies, call them brothers and sisters and hatred complaints, anger are very bad poisons in your bodies you don't need them, send them away and love a loving heart is the best medicine both for your bodies and your personality now I am telling something else to love those who love you is human to hate those who love you is devilish but to love those who do not love you I don't say hating you it's divine choose now I wish you all Merry Christmas and Happy New Year and use the divine gift of the mind in the best way it's given you in abundance the more you use it the more the divine father is giving mind to you