2- Our Material, Psychical, Noetical body So, here is the real point. We must get that decision. Put to yourself the question, I, who am I? I, can I now study conditions and things happening in me and around me? I, now I, who? That fellow making the mistake that it is the body's bodies, the material body, his emotions, thoughts, time and space, interests and fascinations, then you come to the decision. But all this is coming and going, are changing. My desires are changing all the time. My emotions, yes, are changing. And my thoughts, yes, are changing. And what do I observe now? Until the present moment, an entity in time and space, I made the mistake to think that it was myself, was allowing these emotions to make these thoughts slaves to these emotions for their fulfillment. And they were giving me, who am I now? Now I must raise the permanent personality, which has to become one with the inner self. Why? Am I the present personality, a man or a woman? But I am all the time changing. The material body is growing, becoming bigger. My emotions, the same all the time, yet changing face. My desires, likewise, changing. Yet I am never changing. I am I. Then I find the opportunity to disentangle myself from what I thought it was myself, which it wasn't. That means egoism. Because I said it's some total, over-elemental emotions, thoughts are composing egoism. Then I catch him, come here. You are not myself. You are my reflection. How? I am life, that's why you are living. It's up to me to kill you, to change you. So now you say, who am I now, observing, criticizing, and who can take decisions about what I say? My behavior, yet that behavior is all not mine. Because deep in you, you feel all the time that for what you have done, you are not the one responsible. Why? Because in reality, your I-ness is not responsible. And that's the I-ness, which has to change position now, not nature. Because your I of yourself is pure. What about George? Say, I am George, and what about Mary? Maybe George is a thief, or a liar, or an adulterer. Yes, George may be. He is the composition of the egoism. Or Mary can be whatever she can be. Yes, that's true, Mary. But George and Mary and any other name is the egoism. When you cross yourself and say, I am I, and you come forward and say, who am I now? I leave behind George and Mary and any other name. Who am I? Can I get the decision now of changing my life, of governing my emotions, desires, seeing my weaknesses and repenting for them? Then, in that moment, be careful. Egoism will come forward and say, yes, but give reasons that now I get you. I am deciding about your behavior, not my behavior, because I now, considering myself reasonable and logical, can see what you have done in what bad state of things you brought me and brought yourself also. Now, who is suffering? It is not egoism. Suffering also? Our egos may not be suffering. At the same time, our self-collectedness is suffering. Yes. If our egoism has masochistic tendencies, we are not obliged to have them. We can free ourselves from these masochistic tendencies. But egoism likes that kind of self-torturing. You will see that. Now, you have to balance yourself. In this side, it is egoism. And I make the mistake that it is myself. In the other side, it is myself. Who am I? How will I find out who I am now? This is not difficult. He said, I have the willpower to think and take decisions. The egoism has no willpower. It has a kind of obstinacy. It is not difficult just to make the distinction between the two states. Then, Portly said, Now, I, entangled to the time and space, influences and things, am giving up these things and enter in my own self. This is the serious decision. What do you find now? At this moment, I thought I was living consciously. Yes, of course. I was not sleeping. I was quite awakened, living in the way everybody is living. I was living consciously. I said, no, you are living subconsciously. You thought you were living consciously. You are all the time under the influence of that egoism. That means you are all the time under the influence of circumstances and the victim of your psychical body. So, in reality, you are not living consciously. By studying, you feel you are living more consciously. More consciously. So, I see a change from the subconsciousness. Living more consciously. But that is not the end. Now, getting the decisions, expressing yourself, you are now living self-consciously. You start to realize who you are. So, we should live self-consciously. Now, we see consciousness as subconsciousness. Living consciously. Living more consciously. And more consciously until you live self- consciously. In self-consciousness, there is no more self-consciousness. You find yourself. When you say, I now live self-consciously, it is self-consciousness. You have this in mind. But what does it mean now? Self-consciousness. You are in attunement now with your soul. Self-consciousness. Then you have to surrender yourself to your real self. Giving up myself to the higher self. Or attuning myself to the higher self. Just see this point. Aren't we going to lose something? Surrender. Leave this I-ness. No. Surrendering means becoming. You are not losing anything. You are finding your real nature. Your real I-ness. I am remains I am. Never changes. But I am I now. You find your self-consciousness. Before, yes. You are expressing a kind of subconsciousness. Consciousness. Living more consciously. And still more and more consciously. Ascending the ladder of consciousness to reach your self-consciousness. Now, in self- consciousness, there is not any change. But spreading out. And within. And everywhere. In space and in the eternal now. Going beyond what we say time and space illusions. Which means there was a self- conscious being. I am not only getting impressions from one place only. This I was doing. Believing what I call consciously in a material body under my emotions and my thoughts as a so-called human being. How am I going now to surrender my human form? Sacrifice it. Before the altar of I-ness. Of my ego. No need. You can leave it and put it on any time you like. No need to be naked. If the weather is hot, take off your coat. Hang it with a suspender. And when you feel you need it, put it on again. It's your coat. So you are not going to surrender the human form. This is what most people are afraid of. Those of the innermost circle, I have. When I give them the exercise, of course I am not going to give this exercise to you, of dissolving the form and remaining outside of the form. And then having it back, they start smiling. So we are not going to lose ourselves. Lose yourself? Definitely no. But is our form, the human form, our self? Why not? Christ had honoured this human form, calling himself the Son of Man. But now we can use this form again without losing our identity as super-consciousness. So now we express ourselves as self-super-consciousness. We can be in many, many places at the same time, on the planet, being fully conscious of our being there, much more being self-super-conscious. Once we gain this super-consciousness, self-super- consciousness, you can use it not only in any place on the planet, but elsewhere, in space and time. Then you realise that there is not past, present and future, but eternal now. For you there is not past, future. It is eternal now. What is the pleasure of it? It is not easy to explain to anyone. Before, he would test it himself, or herself. So, if we consider now, while you are living sub-consciously, slaves of our sub-consciousness, yet believing that we are living consciously, and even expressing ourselves from time to time as more conscious, and still more conscious. When you live as a self-consciousness, then you understand the difference. We are phenomena of life. You are now realising that you are life. And not only simply a phenomenon of life in time and space. We think we are immortal because we are changing. Now you know that there is not such a thing as death, but simply change. And you realise that you are immortal. You find out now that in the way you are living, in what you call the past, or through your reincarnations, you are always under the law of change. You are considering mistakenly as death. Now you know you are immortal. Not mortal. Christ, in the gathering of his disciples, said, some of you will not taste death. He didn't mean that their material bodies would be intact and not die. That some of you definitely, he meant our masters. He meant Philip. He was the master of materialisation and dematerialisation and expressing himself super-consciously. He meant also St. John the Evangelist and another two disciples. Now, if you can try to imagine what is super-consciousness and self-super-consciousness. I am asking you, are you satisfied with the way you are living? Getting up in the morning, start living subconsciously. Everything you do, it's subconsciously. You don't just notice what you are doing. You are doing it by habit. Expressing yourself subconsciously. Just do this and that and that, subconsciously. Yet you think you are living consciously. After some time, by meditation, concentration of salvation, you find out you are now living more consciously but not yet self- consciously. Even from this point of more and more consciously singly life you are living. You will find this kind of life more satisfactory. Just consider what you will feel the time you start feeling self-consciously and self-super-consciously. Now, do you become more an I than you were before? Are you becoming bigger? Now you are smaller? No. Because the ego or our I-ness is all the same. We broaden the field of our observation and influence. So it's not a matter of becoming ourselves bigger or greater. Because the I our I-ness is God. This is what we have just to have always in our mind. What really we should do is to realize and understand what we are as an ego. Whether that ego is a present personality in a male or female body or that ego, God, again, may have in it it now. Not he or she. The whole planet. Living away its material form and having it any moment he chooses. It's not losing anything. It's broadening the consciousness into more conscious living and more conscious living to what we call super-conscious. Do we become gods? When I was giving this lesson in Greece in an inner circle of the independent circles it says, you mean, Rascal, we become gods? You are not going to become something you are not. You are not becoming gods. You realize now who you are. To realize who you are doesn't mean becoming. Nobody is going to become something he is not now. Now, it's what we call self-realization. You may find this in many, many, many books and if you ask them, what do you mean by self-realization? You are using this term. What do you mean? I have put this question to a Hindu professor, a doctor. He had used this term, self-realization. I said, sir, explain to me what is self-realization? He thought this self-realization meant knowing the present-day personality, studying the present-day personality and being master of the present personality. Yes, because you call self your present-day personality, you say self-realization meaning the present-day personality. I said, but are you sure that's you? Your present-day personality is yourself. When you say self-realization, you mean studying the present-day personality? He was looking at me. Apart from your present personality, you believe as a Hindu to Purusha. That means soul, spirit, atma. What is your self-realization as that? He said, I don't dare even imagine that. Well, be where you are. Because he does not want to make a step forward, leaving behind his present-day personality. That means to sacrifice on the altar of truth egoism. He didn't like to do that. And many so-called avatars and swamis and yogis and masters are afraid just to sacrifice on the altar of the truth and of reality that time and space creation which a name. So we have this in mind. When you regain, re-gain, when you are reawakened, God, not becoming God, then you see the world of shadows with a different now disposition. Shall we leave behind our beloved ones? We met people, we loved them as our children, parents. But how many are they? If you are able just to see previous incarnations, I'm asking you, how many fathers and mothers and children and daughters you have now in the present now, in the eternal now? When you enter in what you call Christendom, then you'll understand what Christ said. He said, the one who follows me, that means who comes to that state of becoming one with the Locos, he is not going to leave his father, the mother and children, but I will give him more. He meant that. Now, you don't love less your present children and parents and relatives by loving as much others who have been in time and space in the past. You are. You are children. You are parents. Now, if you understand that, you understand what we are devoted Christ. You are who follows me. I'll give him more children, fathers and mothers. Of course, at that time, people did not understand what he really meant. Now, when you reach that state, will you remember your past incarnations? Of course, definitely. And then you'll appreciate the mercy of God of taking from a present-day personality the memory of past incarnations, yet giving it in its permanent atom all the lessons and experiences which that entity had in previous incarnations. Fears, tendencies, talents, dispositions. No need to remember details. Painful details may be very painful details of the past, but look within you and you'll find the lessons already you have taken from previous incarnations. I tell you definitely, when one is not to be influenced by previous incarnations, the divine intelligences will open him to remember everything. But they will do it if that person remembering will not feel ashamed of himself or of herself, but see what that fellow had written in the previous pages of his book. And something else you must note. The Infinite Beingness as the Locust and as the Holy Spirit in their holy mercy and the guardian angel deprives the present-day personality of a man, even of a criminal, of a thief, an adulterer, anyone, man or woman, of remembering pain. You may remember events, but not the pain. You might have undergone a certain kind of pain, physical, on the physical body, undergoing an operation without anesthetics or something like that. A woman giving birth, there is much pain in it. You can remember the event, a woman giving birth, the room, circumstances, people coming, going, the doctor, everything, experience pain. If you tell her, try to remember pain of a man who has undergone an operation, try just to remember pain. Maybe it was treating a wound without him putting anything there. There was pain, of course, in sewing a wound. He may remember the event, the doctor and what he was doing, but he cannot recall pain because this is the divine mercy. Nobody can remember or re-experience pain. Not only in the material body, in the material body, even in the psychical body, after what we call recovery. Those who will be psychical, psychotherapists, will observe that. Once recovered, a material body, or a psychical body, or mental pain, cannot recall it. And this is what we call the mercy of the infinite beingness. Yes. The locus. The Holy Spirit. Our guardian angels and our holy angels, brothers, are trying to make our life easier for us, but we don't understand it now. Sometime in the future, when we just become more cautious, and more cautious, we'll understand His divine mercy. Now, any questions? Yes. Loudly, please. Yesterday, he came to me in much pain. He was very sad, because he said in his... Previously, he was a very good man, and gradually, over the last few years, his behavior has changed, and he is angry with his wife, his children, with his customers. And the other day, he beat up his wife, and he was very upset and said, please help me. And I said, having been coming to your classes for a year, I could see that it's his egoism, and he's let his egoism control him, but how am I going to teach him all the things that you've told me in a few hours, or can I help him if I teach him what you... Now, all these things I have taught you, where are they now? Within you. Give him what I gave you. How? Will he accept the way you teach me? Will he accept what I'm teaching him? Now, look here, what you do. First of all, say a prayer, and ask for the help of invisible helpers to help you do it. And then do it. And you will do it. Because after all, what's the use of giving your business if you are not going to use it? Use it. So you can do it. Then you will feel the pleasure of helping others. Yes. I would like to ask, on this question, a finer nuance. Sometimes I notice that people want help but they don't ask. I thought we can only help when people ask. But sometimes you feel they want help and they don't directly ask you. And then the second part of the question is, how do we find the right words? Because if I tell the person exactly what you are saying, they don't always understand it. But if I turn it down, sometimes it gets distorted. No, look here. Help people. Don't go about with a jar full of water and the glass says, have a drink. I say, I'm not thirsty. Why should I have it? But those who are thirsty, they will find the way to find the water to drink. So be ready. Be ready when somebody will ask you to give him a glass of water to drink, to have that glass of water there, to give it to him. Don't run after them to give them a glass of water just to drink. Now, if people are not ready, whatever you do will not be able to help them. Before, it's their time to come. Something else. It's not kind waking up a shadow who's sleeping and dreaming. And of course, in this life, many people are sleeping and dreaming. It's not kind, just he's dreaming, snoring. Wake up! I'll come to teach you now. Just go to hell. Leave me alone. Let me sleep. You must be careful. I say, be ready. Be prepared. But, don't get initiality. Don't give them advice if they don't ask them. Be ready, but not making people feel tired. Nobody will follow you unless it's his time to come to you. Now, in studying, many people are very eager to cover distance in knowing, in finding out. I had this case before some days. A lady was attending the lessons. She said, my husband cares about football, going to football, and to acquire. Why he should come and start studying these things? Really? Why should he? He finds pleasure in going to see football. He's stupid. Just shouting, shouting like a fool, with the others shouting. He pleases her. She says, no. He must come. And what do you suggest? No, he must just cover the ground to reach the place you have to reach in knowledge. Yes, that's OK. If you start running, and you can afford running, and you get somebody from behind, say, run with me, to stop and fell down. Is it kind just to hold him from behind and tell him, come, run with me? What do you mean? Leave him alone. Love him, be happy with him, be a good wife to him, and leave him alone. So this is something you'll understand. One of the best lessons you must get is tolerance and leave to the others. You love freedom of deciding and having what they want to have. Say, can a woman live with a man or a man live with a woman with different interests in life? Why not? Each one will get his lessons in this life, in his own way. Not in our way. Sir, my sister must attend the lessons. I come for six months now to the lessons. I had this before some days. And, of course, her interests are different. I went, what's wrong with that? No, she must just follow the lessons. I said, I went, bring her to the lesson. Next time, force her to come to the lesson and her mind will be loitering on her own interests. No, she will be interested in the lesson again. She, that you put on your shoes and come to us. I said, no. Have my shoes? Yes. But her foot is bigger than mine. How can she put on my shoes and come? That's what you try to do. Why put her feet in your shoes to come? You shouldn't do that. Let her put on her shoes and go her own way. And you go your own way. But she is losing time. Who taught you that you are gaining time? Who taught you that she will not improve in her own way? It's something else you should know. The only way is not our way. Life is giving to everybody the lessons and experiences they need now. So, don't force anybody. Speak and wait. Attend. They are asking for help. Give it. If they don't, leave them alone. Maybe they are happier in that way. Don't try to force anybody to follow you. But love them all all the same. It doesn't mean that because people are not following us we should love them less. That's the difference. We should love all the same. But be tolerant and patient. Of course you want to help them.