Daskalos - The Golden Keys - 1993-06-22 A discourse by Dr. Stylianos Ateslis, known as Daskalos. The identical thing that we now call Christian religion existed among the ancients and has not been lacking of the human race, leading up to the coming of Christ in the flesh, from which moment on, the true religion, which already existed, began to be called Christian. God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God, and God in him. Absolute truth is a brilliant, many-sided diamond. The great light fills this gem, and colors gleam from every side. Mystics, messengers, sages, and teachers of all ages, races, and beliefs have spoken of a different face of this common eternal truth. Monotheistic esoteric Christianity has been unfolding in human consciousness since time immemorial as a clear and concise reflection of the truth. Our system for the research of truth is devoted to the esoteric Christian tradition. Our exploration of the truth and our ever-increasing conscious engagement in absolute beingness's divine plan is achieved through directed study, observation, exercise, prayer, and meditation. Our approach is methodical, safe, and self-evident. We seek to embrace the holy gifts, insights, and revelations bestowed upon us. We aspire to understand and attune ourselves with the divine laws, forms, principles, and causes governing life. We work in love's name, patiently and harmoniously. We value the balanced development and integration of our entire being as we cultivate our emotional, moral, spiritual, and mystical aspects. Dr. Stylianos Attaslis, popularly known as Daskalos, has been teaching esoteric Christianity and healing for over 70 years. In the late 1980s, Daskalos, having lived a deliberately quiet existence, gained worldwide attention resulting from a number of publications describing his work and life. It was not long after that seekers from the world over began arriving in Strovolos, Cyprus, to learn more of what Daskalos was teaching. Daskalos began conducting public lessons in the Stoa to guide the arrivals. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightyness in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We'll make a revision so that you'll understand the lesson better. We said that what is, always has been, and will always be, is God, the absolute, infinite beingness. What is this absolute, infinite beingness? No human intelligence can understand. Not even the archangelic orders. What we know about this absolute, infinite beingness, it is that this is the absolute, infinite selfhood. It knows what it is. It is not just a blind force. Now, in this absolute, infinite beingness, it is self-sufficiency. It is life itself. But what is life? In its absolute state. All you know is that it is everlasting, without beginning, without an end. Now, in this absolute, infinite beingness, it has its plurality. In it are billions and billions and billions of beings. Or similar. Not different from the source. So, in this absolute, infinite beingness, all of them, it is the self-sufficiency. It is the absolute, total wisdom. And the all-mightyness. So, many in the oneness. So, have one God. One God, the Father, the source of everything. In its plurality. As an absolute, infinite beingness, nobody can say what it is. And none of us can say what it is. But in this absolute, infinite beingness, there is also the joy of creation, to manifest oneself. And this will-pleasure of manifestation, it makes the absolute, infinite beingness. This will-pleasure is making the absolute, infinite beingness as the absolute, infinite beingness. So, in the absolute, infinite beingness now, I have the total wisdom. Ready to be manifested. And in the absolute, infinite beingnesses or beings, I have the absolute, we say, all-mightyness. Now, the absolute, infinite beingness now, I call it absolute, infinite beingness, or earth, sati, or logon. So, we don't have a second God now. It's a second manifestation of God. Now, the all-mightiness of the beings in the absolute, infinite beingness now, is the Holy Spirit, not God. So, we have the absolute, infinite beingness in another two states of existence now. So, I have the absolute, infinite beingness. In everlasting life. Nobody can know what it is. And we have now the absolute, infinite beingness as the absolute, infinite beingness, and as the Holy Spirit. Now, I would give it, but for example, we don't have any better. I have a human being, standing on his two feet, has his two hands, and he has a head. The head is absolute, infinite beingness. Doesn't move. It's not in the world of existence. But I see two hearts and two feet. To walk, God is in the head. To walk, God is in the head. To manifest this thought, through the hands and moving through the feet. So, the right hand and the right foot is the Logos. The right hand and the right foot is the Logos. The left hand and the left foot is the Holy Spirit. And now I have the triangle, the Holy Triangle. The church is called the Holy Trinity. The church is called the Holy Trinity. One God, the Father. When Joshua, the Christ, was feeling himself as the Father, he said, I am the Father, I am one. He said, I am the Father, I am one. Of course, the head and the hands are one. So, the Holy Spirit now. Now, what it is? He said, the all-mightiness of the total wisdom. He said, the all-mightiness of the total wisdom. In their divine, as we call it, state. In their divine, as we call it, state. They are one. They are one. But in their manifestation, I have two expressions. But in their manifestation, I have two expressions. What I call from the Logos, self- consciousness. What I call from the Logos, self-consciousness. From the other side, the Holy Spirit, I have the consciousness, super-consciousness, not self-consciousness. And on the other side, the Holy Spirit, I have the Holy Spirit, which expresses itself self-consciously. Which expresses itself self-consciously. That is the Logos. So, I have now two different states. And I can see them in a human being. So, a human being is the Trinity also. is the Trinity also. Our real self-ego is the spirit-self. It is the self-consciousness expressed as soul now, as the Logos. Our self-consciousness. But we have also in us the consciousness, the impersonal consciousness. Not self-bewusstsein. Because now I see people living sub-consciously, unconsciously, but not self-consciously. living sub-consciously, unconsciously, but not self-bewusstsein. So, as self-conscious beings, souls, we are Logos. In the all-mightiness of creation, our bodies, by the Holy Archangels, we are holy spiritually. Besenheit. So, what is in the absolute infinite beingness and the Holy Spirit? We are. Now, in the Old Testament, we read what the Father said to the Holy Archangels in Him. Said means vibrated. The total wisdom. Wisdom. Let us create man as our image and according to our likeness. Not different. Now we have man manifested as soul-ego. Logos. Self-consciousness. And we are also living in bodies and these bodies have their own sub-consciousness and self-consciousness. Because they are holy spiritually. So, we have the macrocosm and the microcosm. So, in our system, the seekers of the truth, is just by studying and knowing the truth about our existence. And our beingness. Our beingness is everlasting, eternal. Our spirit-ego-soul. But our human personality on earth and in the psychological and noetic worlds is the creation. So, we are doubled. The divine and ever-existing spirit-soul-ego and our personality with its bodies. So, we have the bodies having the human form. But the bodies are built on the human form. By the holy archangelic orders. From where they get the human form? To work on it. From our spirit-body. So, our spirit-body-soul has already the human form. I call it in the light. So, our human form is not only in the clay and made from clay. It's also light. All the colors of the light. And these various colors of the light are giving us the quality of our emotions and our thoughts. So, we have to study all that. Study. How? By using the mind. Now, what is the mind? Und was ist mind-geist? It is what one should clearly understand. We said, mind is everywhere. As supersubstance. Formless. Not having any form. But it is. Now, it will exist now as substance. As ethereal stuff. And as earth-body. Und unsere ton-erdigen körper. So, the stones, the rocks, matter is solid mind. In certain vibrations. Now, we say, we know on the material plane what is solid. Just a piece of stone. It is solid. How do you understand it is solid? By getting it and touching it. With what? With your hand. Which is also solid. So you understand what is solid by touching it with something vibrating to the same vibrations of what you call solid. Now, we enter in the holy mathematics. Und jetzt treten wir in die heilige Mathematik ein. Of a Greco-Egyptian philosopher. Called Baalaton. Plato. Now, the correspondences of the numbers. Und nun die Zusammenhänge der Zahlen. I am not going to reveal much. But just something relative. Suppose, what we have on our material plane vibrates from one to ten. What is one? It is very solid matter. What is two? It is still matter but not so hard. What is three? Still something material but a little more soft. Es ist immer noch Materie aber weicher. What is four? It is water. Und vier ist Wasser. But I have water as ice. Wir haben aber Wasser auch als Eis. As water. As clouds. Als Wolken. As damp. Das sind drei Stufen von Wasser. Then I have different vibrations which I can find on everything and especially in the air. I call them fire and ether. I will not separate now. Das ist ten. Das ist die materielle Erde. But now, mind vibrating, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, corresponding to one, two, three, is the psychical world. And as you have our material body vibrating from one to ten, matter, liquid, ether, fire, I have my psychical body vibrating also. From ten to twenty. So what is very hard in the material world? Sehr fest in der materiellen Welt ist What? Eins. Eleven I have it in the psychical plane as choice. So as our human material body vibrates in this rate, so our psychical body vibrates accordingly. And from twenty to thirty is the noetical body. So I have the same correspondences. One, eleven, twenty-one, thirty-one. Und wir finden wiederum die selben nummen von einundzwanzig, zweihundzwanzig, bis dreißig. Two, twelve, twenty-two, thirty-three. All these are frequencies of the mind. But what exists even our bodies is mind. In its various frequencies of vibration. Now, this is personal experience. Finding myself in my noetical body. Being in the noetical body counterpart of the planet. In the noetical counterpart of our planet. More light. Better everything than the material world. Knowing to lower the vibrations to the relative state. You can find yourself in the psychical plane of the planet. Dann kann er sich wiederum auf der psychischen Ebene dieses Planeten befinden. That's wrong. Thirty to forty, or twenty to thirty, or lower from eleven to twenty. Lowering your vibrations. Below, from one to ten. Von eins bis zehn. That means you can materialize your body with mind matter. Changing the vibrations of the material body, which is from one to ten. Changing the frequency of the vibrations. Between eleven to twenty. To dematerialize the material body. You find yourself in your psychical body. Having the relationship of the numbers of vibration, it is what is solid, liquid, gaseous and so on. In the various worlds. Just changing your vibrations from the one world to the other world. You find in the various worlds what we call solid, liquid, ethereal and so on. So, how do you have the so called four elements? I have the four elements in all the realms. That's not only the four elements I have. The holy number is not ten, it is seven. I have another three kinds of vibrations. In all the worlds. I will not reveal the other three. I am not allowed. And knowing the seven states of the mind in all the worlds, materialization or dematerialization is a toy in your hands. Now, most of you are putting your mind how can we reach to that point. By certain kind of study. By certain kind of meditation. Because there are many ways that slowly, slowly you will reach. But this needs the work of many centuries. And an incarnation for me is a day at school. That's it. What is the real gain out of it? Getting powers? Not of course. But what is the real gain of it? You are developing your personality consciousness. To your soul individuality self-consciousness. Then to your soul self-consciousness. Till you reach your real nature the spirit. You reach what I call self-realization. I put it more practically. Laskalos will explain it more practically. From instinctive personality and subconscious personality to become conscious now personality individuality. You are expressing now your soul ego self-good. Then you understand what is self-consciousness. Continuing you are becoming one self- super-consciousness. Reaching the self-realization. Reaching the self-realization. When you ask who are you? I am that I am. When the Israelites have us just as in Christ, who are you? When the Israelites have us just as in Christ, who are you? He said I am that I am. My identity. And when they continued to write to him He said I am Allah. I am God. Benny Allah. God. Son of God. This is self-realization. Theoretically that is very nice. More practical. This is the system of research of truth we are teaching. Which means after learning what is the mind. Supersubstance formless. Can we see it now as mind thought? Definitely the mind is not this little clay in our skull. What is the relationship between now mind and thought? Now the mind for example again is hydrogen. What is now the thought? Pieces of ice. So, it is water. It is water. I can have it in any form. Thoughts I can have them in any form. And thoughts the mind they are made of the mind. Hydrogen is in them. But they are not only the hydrogen. Hydrogen is in them. But it is not only hydrogen. It is cold. Making it ice. So, I have its nature and its existence. Very poor example but I can give you an idea what is the mind. It is a very poor example but I can give you an idea what is the mind. So, I repeat it. The mind is not a handful of earth in the skull. We call it the brain. As a battery is not electricity. Because a battery may be charged or discharged. Electricity is everywhere. So, we have to study the state and the nature of the mind in all its vibrations and frequencies. And so we have to study the nature of all things in the different frequencies of the vibrations. It needs much study. So, what are we in relation to the mind? Are we the mind? No, we are using the mind. We are not the thought. We are not the emotions. We are not the bodies and our material bodies. So, in our course of studies we must study to control the material body. Study everything possible about the material body in the work of the Archangels. Study our etheric double. Control it. Use it. Study our emotional body which all the time is torturing us. And control desires and emotions. Have to control them and know them. Then we know that we are not our emotions. Our emotions is our expression. Now a more difficult thing to know. Are we our thoughts? No. And we make the mistake to make the mind slave of the emotions. And slaving the super substance of the mind formulating into elementals. A mixture of emotions and desires and thoughts behind them to serve them. So we have to study how we create the elementals composing our personality. So we find out that we are not the bodies. And come now to realize that we have a kind of time and place self. Our personality which again doubles. The heart of it, the life of it is the soul. And its expressions are the elementals, the mind and emotional thoughts. What we have to do? To study our elementals and emotional and ethical side. And try to change them. And changing them I find that they are not myself. Yes, I can change them. And when we change them we see again that they are not us. Because we can change them. Who am I then? I am not the body. I am not my emotions. I am not my thoughts. When I was teaching this before many years to advanced students a fellow came to me and said What the devil we are then? You took away all my clothes and you left me naked. What am I? I said you are your own self. You are everything. Of course he went away. He went away. He became of his emotions. He became a great poet. Everybody is admiring him. Then I meet him sometimes. He said no, no, no, you are enemy. You deprived me from everything I am. It needs courage. I tried to explain to him that he didn't lose his light spirit body. But he says no, we took away everything. No, when you reach the self super consciousness you are not a slave of the bodies of the mind. Of the material, of the psychical and the vertical bodies. But you are you. And this self bigger than the universe. This is what we call self super consciousness. This is what we call self super consciousness. Becoming gods? Before a few days I had a question from one of you. He said when do we become gods? And the question was when do we become gods? No one will ever become a god. Because everybody is god. God is to realize what you are. You never become what you are not. We are a god spirit soul ego. We are everlasting life. In our incorruptible spirit body. With all its divine powers. And we exist in many kinds of existence. Now. We are. Always have been. Always will be. And we will always be an immortal self. Spirit soul ego. Which reflects the shadow. In the world of existence. In the ethical, the psychical and the gross material. Coloring itself with the various bodies. Build up these bodies by the holy archangels of the elements. Sort of double. Eternal self. And in time and place is created from time to time self. Now. Are we losing our temporary selves? Or personalities? No. Because in every personality we create an elemental of the personality. From the time of birth of the spermatozoon until the passing over. It doesn't matter where. Which is a living elemental in the cosmic memory. And if you can attune yourself with your inner self you can approach in the cosmic memory. All those elementals of yourself you have made. Everything is there. Even if before 5000 years. What a kind of personality. Trying to throw away from you a fly flying. You can see that that. Nothing is lost. Everything is recorded. And tell me, how many kinds of that personality cells do we have? Maybe hundreds. What is your gain now? All those lessons you have taken by pain and experiences are in your subconsciousness now as predisposition. Predisposition. Predisposition. So, no need to remember past incarnation. Everybody has in his subconsciousness the lessons to learn. That's why two persons born are not the same. So, why you forget? Because the divine grace of the El Shaddai of the Logos decided to forget so that you will chance to go forward. so that you will chance to go forward. When you develop in your self-consciousness of a personality in self-consciousness you start remembering. Feeling. Feeling as being. Living dreams. Dreams do not exist. It is experiences. Until one day you reach a position to show yourself of your personality all the books you have written in each incarnation. in each incarnation. Nothing is lost. Good or evil. Just as Emmanuel the Christ said that nothing will remain secret. If one reaches the power of attunement of attunement look in your subconsciousness and approach anyone of your person of your incarnation. Then we can approach these experiences of any incarnation. Nothing is lost. Good or evil. For how long? We can live like that. Forgetting and remembering and going on. What is time in eternity? Time is not for everybody the same. And what did Emmanuel the Christ said? The perishable will become imperishable. And the immortal will become immortal. Which means every incarnation of yours in the past is in you and everywhere. You cannot kill yourself to it. Or anybody cannot kill himself to your past. By attunement to. And by attunement with. It can become one with it. So everything is also common. This means the oneness or the common selfhood. Which Emmanuel the Christ tried to make us understand. By preaching with his miracles. With his way of living. Admitting to be nailed on the wood. Raising and erecting his body correctly. He gave us the great lesson what we are. One of the greatest mercy of God is in our personalities incarnations to forget pain. How many of you had operations or accidents and you had great pain? You may close your eyes and remember all details of the accident. Or giving birth. Try to remember pain. You cannot. That's the grace of God. He takes away from you what you call pain. Material pain. Or even surgical pain. And we say time is healing every wound. Even surgical. So all these things need study. And one of our divine powers as spirit-soul is observation. And knowing. Because you must learn to practice it. In what we call introspection. Looking within and studying within now. In entering in the kingdom of the heavens which is in our nature as spirit-souls. But reaching that have to pass through very dirty but smelling pool. Which is our subconsciousness now. Passions. Weaknesses. Jealousies. Enmities. Aggressiveness. Because to be born enough to cross that but smelling pool in our subconsciousness. And entering in the kingdom of the heavens which is our nature. The seven heavens. The Christ was describing these heavens. Jesus Emmanuel der Christos hat diese Himmel beschrieben. Er nannte es You don't know. Which means the kingdom of the heavens. So it needs much work. Und wir brauchen viel Arbeit. Much sincerity with our lower self. This is the teachings of our esoteric learning. Now we will get the golden key. Und jetzt bekommen wir die goldenen Schlüssel. Start to understand the nature of the mind. Start to understand the way you are creating elementals from the mind. Start to understand the relationship between thought and emotional desire. Free the mind from being the slave of emotions and desire. Make it the master of thinking. Try to understand what you are. Saying I am not an animal like the animals around me. Because I have a body of flesh and blood and bones. Like the other animals. I am what? This is where you will make the exercise I am telling you to ask. And the archangels working in your bodies for you. And your guardian archangels and the beloved one Jesus Emanuel who is here now with us and is in you and with you feeling the weaknesses of the human beings. After being humanized he is offering you his hands and his arms. So you don't have the right to say you don't have help. Nobody had ever been alone. Even if they cross you in a dungeon, in a prison. You are not alone. Or if you remain alone in a room for months. Nobody is alone. But one has to realize that. By introspection. Try to control emotions. Transmit them from evil to good and use the mind. Of course time is doing that. God is doing it. When human beings get water and earth and they make mud it starts to stink. And they mix the two elements earth and water. The heat around the fire will make evaporation. And that bad smelling mud will become again pure earth. And the water will become nice dew on the leaves of the trees. So you are a material body. You are emotions. Made in your subconscious in that bad smelling mud. And control the emotions and desires. Hatred. Jealousy. That is feeling of evil. Aggressiveness. Make a warm prayer. Fill that prayer with the fire of the spirit and you will change that mud. Because the mind even becoming that bad smelling mud is still holy. So we have to have it in our minds. Coach a prayer. Creating a helpful element of it. Because every thought and every emotion are creating elementals. Which are composing our personality. Then you say, which is the best prayer? Prayer is not just get certain phrases and recite them and your mind be somewhere else. Each one can make his own prayer to his father or her father. Maybe one of the most effective prayers is God have mercy upon us. That is even enough. But who said? The lips or the heart? So we can create elementals by thought by words or without heart. But clean the heart. Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said Pleasant are the pure in heart because they shall see God. So my advice is that everybody should pray. Ask your soul to make the prayer you need for you. And now we do an exercise. Relax completely. That means your body is yours. They trust it to you. They built it. They sustain it. They give it to you as yours. Relax all the muscles in your body. But feel you are in it. Without tension. No tension. Just feel you are in the body. Just feel you are in the body. Breathe deeply and comfortably. And say with your mind Absolute Infinite Beingness The Logos Our Father One in heavens and in us. In our being self and in our bodies. Everything is yours. We are yours. Our self even sinful is part of your selfhood. We are in your oneness. We don't ask you to clean us. We don't ask you to clean us. We ask you to help us to clean ourselves for your sake. We will try to clean this self of ours. Our present personality so do not be a stain of dirt in your own self. Help us clean ourselves to deserve saying that we are one in you and with you. Breathe deeply. You are in the breath I am breathing. You are the life of my bodies and you are the light of my personality. Help me to understand you. I will clean myself and you clean it also. So that I will not be a stain in your selfhood. Inspire me and help me to love all human beings. Because if you call them evil but good or very good they are as they are in your selfhood. Divine Father have mercy upon us. Feel God in the parts of your heart. He is present in your bodies. You are never alone. He knows all nine. Thank you.