Daskalos - You Are Dual in One - 1993 08 30 A discourse by Dr. Stylianos Ateslis, known as Daskalos. The identical thing that we now call Christian religion existed among the ancients and has not been lacking of the human race leading up to the coming of Christ in the flesh, from which moment on the true religion, which already existed, began to be called Christian. God who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Absolute truth is a brilliant, many-sided diamond. The great light fills this gem, and colors gleam from every side. Mystics, messengers, sages, and teachers of all ages, races, and beliefs have spoken of a different face of this common eternal truth. Monotheistic, esoteric Christianity has been unfolding in human consciousness since time immemorial, as a clear and concise reflection of the truth. Our system for the research of truth is devoted to the esoteric Christian tradition. Our exploration of the truth, and our ever-increasing conscious engagement in Absolute Beingness's divine plan, is achieved through directed study, observation, exercise, prayer, and meditation. Our approach is methodical, safe, and self-evident. We seek to embrace the holy gifts, insights, and revelations bestowed upon us. We aspire to understand and attune ourselves with the divine laws, forms, principles, and causes governing life. We work in love's name, patiently and harmoniously. We value the balanced development and integration of our entire being as we cultivate our emotional, moral, spiritual, and mystical aspects. Dr. Stylianos Attaslis, popularly known as Daskalos, has been teaching esoteric Christianity and healing for over 70 years. In the late 1980s, Daskalos, having lived a deliberately quiet existence, gained worldwide attention resulting from a number of publications describing his work and life. It was not long after that seekers from the world over began arriving in Strovolos, Cyprus, to learn more of what Daskalos was teaching. Daskalos began conducting public lessons in the stoa to guide the arrivals. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness. God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightyness. And that in our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts. To love you. And to love all other human beings around us. Amen. Welcome to Cyprus. What is the system of the research of the truth? Does it serve any useful purpose now? Why should we engage ourselves with these kinds of studies to search for the truth? But now, what is the truth? Can we know the truth while living in material bodies in this gross material world? Of course not. But we can know the relative truth by comparison in things in the daily life. Of course. Or during these past centuries from the time of the cavemen the human being was a seeker of the truth. Why? Because he was not an animal like all the other animals around him. Because he was human. He found himself living in a world very difficult to live in it. To live in the caves. Just holding a club in his hand to protect himself from the other animals and to secure his food. He was single around him. Phenomena of life. Many, many, many phenomena of life around him. Most of the phenomena of life were too hostile to him at that time. Volcanoes. Many volcanoes. Suffocating atmosphere. He was trying to find a safer and better place to live. Caves far away from volcanoes and from the huge, huge monsters of that time. The dinosaurs, the brontosaurus and all those which be. To find him living in caves. Living a family life. Of course. He was observing and looking at the sky. Seeing the sun rising in the morning and setting in the evening. He started thinking, who is just holding that big ball of fire giving us heat on the sky? He started using the fire. Hot, the fire. He was living in his caves, just using the fire to keep himself warm and just cook his food. And torches, giving little light and too much smoke. The life of the human beings was really very, very, very difficult. Yet they were living. And were pleased of the life. Because they wanted to preserve it. And years were going on and on and centuries and centuries. Of course, the animals have remained animals. The cows and the ox and the asses and the horses are the same as they were at that time. Why? You cannot see any ox just talking or writing as a human being. Why? Don't they breathe the same air we are breathing? Don't they have in their skulls better quality of brains, bigger in size? Of course they do. But is thinking just material lobs of brain in the skull? No. They may serve a purpose definitely to the human being to think. They may serve the senses but it isn't the mind. And the animals cannot use the super substance of the mind super vitality in thinking. And what human beings found out through these centuries, the past centuries. Because some enlightened ones, more advanced, caring more about knowing and learning what is what. They found out some of the truth. The others. Just as today, most of the human beings who are engaged with their daily life making their own life. They were satisfied with their own life. As of today. Even in the past, they were just the same. So only some enlightened ones started thinking engaging themselves with finding the truth. All these centuries we had these enlightened ones which came to the same conclusions that the human being is not an animal like all the animals there just because it has a material body similar to that of the animals bones, flesh blood, muscles and certain organs. They came to that conclusion. Then they came to this conclusion who created all those living phenomena of life all around us in the animal kingdom and who created him as a human being had observed that by instinct and during the sexual course all the phenomena of life were bringing to life offsprings of their own similar to them. And he was bringing in life human beings as himself. How is that? Because they started studying all these matters. The human beings. And they came just to the conclusion that there must be a much higher intelligence super intelligence much higher than his own human intelligence who is controlling all that. Shall we call it nature? Let us call it nature. Shall we call it life? Yes, let us call it life. But we see so much differences in the phenomena of life. And we see also some similarities in this phenomena of life. Breathing, moving, living. But what kind of life each phenomena of life of the animal kingdom is doing? And what is the way of living of a human being? Of course, we know what all those wise and enlightened ones have taught us all through the centuries until before 20 centuries. God, Joshua, Emmanuel. The God-man himself came down on earth as a human being to teach us the truth. As much truth as we could assimilate and understand. Saying that we are all offsprings of Allah, of God. Of the Almighty God. That God is spirit super self. The absolute infinite selfhood. And we are in its oneness in its omnipresent oneness though we cannot understand it. He said that God for Allah is everywhere. In our breath, in the air we are breathing. In the mind vitality, we are breathing with the air catching it in our material bodies in everything. So he gave the code of life. Telling every truth. Now. Making comparison. We see the caveman in the caves in a very hostile nature in a very unpleasing atmosphere to live. Little light, much smoke difficult to breathe in dangers everywhere. We see him now, the human being in big cities luxurious houses with every kind of comfort even the most poor house has electric light and he is using electricity for his comfort to have cold water during the summer. Even the poorest man has more comfort and pleasure now than a king in the past centuries. So you see the difference now the human being the care of the human beings at that time was how to survive to protect themselves. Now they send rockets to space they landed on the moon they have so many many many things this is what we call the present day civilization. The television the computers everything. They put the question now is the human being happier today than when he was in the caves? Is he leading just a happier life? If you get a hundred persons here and ask them if they are happy definitely 80% will say no. Are you pleased of life? Of course this is not a proper question you would say to him Are you pleased of your life? Because each fellow is doing his own life. Life is general. Life is good. We are all breathing eating digesting, living this is the general life but what is the life of each one of us? Each one of us is creating his or her own life. And if you ask someone Are you satisfied of your life? Definitely they say 80% in hundred people No! Then put them the question why and who is responsible for that? God, Allah Almighty who is giving you the life who is keeping you living who is doing everything created everything for you to live everything in abundance the air, the mind vitality plenty of food to eat just to keep the human body living Why you are not happy? Now, 20% of the people who say happy of course you don't feel happy but we feel sometimes satisfied sometimes when things are not going on well not very satisfied, then they change we are in the world of change They found one side of the truth Change Now what is the seeker of the truth doing today? Trying to use the mind super substance at least consciously if not yet self-consciously but unfortunately human beings are using this mind substance subconsciously and instinctively at least we should use it consciously just start thinking seriously and reasonably putting to ourselves the question Who are we? We are a phenomenon of life all of us as all the other phenomenon of life all around us we must study now what is common, what is similar and what is the difference between us and all the animals all around us then we should start thinking as the seekers of the truth today again I say using the mind super substance vitality which God has given us the right to use just to find out our differences amongst us and the consequences of all those differences in our own life and who is responsible for the way of life we are living and we must come to conclusions find out the reasons why all those people, 80% of the people are not satisfied of their own life without just caring about what is life and that they are living of course the intention of the absolute infinite intelligence it was not just the human being to live an unhappy life and what we find out now of course we have to use our mind thinking, meditating trying to understand in many many branches of study and we have plenty of time of doing it if we want to what is life what is this absolute infinite intelligence we call God and what is our place in it what we are of course we have everything ready and easy now God is spirit and a human being is a spirit, soul, ego, self that's clear we must start to meditate and say what is spirit what is the relationship between spirit, life light nature and all those I am seeing in nature touching, using of course a lot of science now started studying matter to be more confused now than who they were before when the father of Paul put me a question the other day how was that sir let us see a little disc with this laser you can hear just a symphony of 80 instruments musical instruments playing how is that is that the property of matter maybe but there must be something behind matter because matter is also a box material thing is a television and an empty box there is some difference between matter and matter so we have to study what is behind all these things of course we are not going to deify now matter but you can see that behind matter and using the matter is really the absolute infinite intelligence expressing itself maybe as electricity as magnetism as something else that human beings will still find out and they don't have the right to reveal more it is not the time yet all these are shall we call it aspects of the infinite intelligence of God so we are living believe me in a most magnificent world we may call it a cross-material world our nature around us it is really a paradise as Allah or God and Elohim as God with His Holy Archangels in His Oneness has created and is sustaining and we have the honor to live in it and be provided with everything material everything as food just to keep on our material bodies living you are breathing the air only the air loaded with the mind vitality so that our material bodies and our other bodies to live a healthy life and serve us in what? to live a happy life why then we are not happy and not even satisfied of life this is another question which you must find out just studying the way certain families around you in your country are living and believe me it is the same way of living everywhere on the planet in the so-called civilized world and uncivilized world and then we will find out the reason and the cause of all this misery first the dissatisfaction what is dissatisfaction? why man is not satisfied? because he has too many things and too much and he is making comparisons instead of being pleased he is feeling dissatisfied if he doesn't have what he thinks he wants to have more than what he has already so it is dissatisfaction second just the habit of attaching the self in material things calling them our own a fellow finds himself living in this material world he is born in a house growing up in a house living in this world living the family life they are hot killers to call more things his own property, lands, buildings sheets of paper, we call them money shares and all those things should we not like all these things now in this world we are living with uncertainty of course having them is not a bad idea having them but not attach ourselves to them and enslave ourselves in all those things because everything we are calling ours this life is not ours first of all we did not create anything everything belongs to the absolute infinite intelligence of course according to the will of God it is given us to use it live with it but what is really wrong is just attaching ourselves and enslaving ourselves to certain things especially depriving them from all the other people even in the family to enjoy them and use them this is the main reason that makes human beings unhappy in this life this is the way most people are living in getting, possessing keeping, depriving things from others for how long? making money yes, property huge buildings, calling them their own possessing lands, shares they reach an age and then they see all around them the phenomenon of the sudden change the change that though they were living in this change every moment they never cared to study it what is the change? because the law in the material world in all the worlds of existence is movement and change a beginning, a cause of things and an end to it and so we have to understand and study what is this change and this sudden change we call death of the material body and when a fellow passes away from his material body what are all those things he was calling his own to him anymore now here what was wrong a human being had considered himself to be his material body his personality in it and how to attach to this personality to that artificial self everything calling it mine he never cared to study what is his real nature as a spirit, soul, self who cares? but we should care and we hear Christ, Joshua saying what is the gain of a human being if he will possess the whole world and loses his own soul did all these people not lose their soul neglecting it, not caring about it and thinking that their self is only the material body and nothing else so we know what is the material body we touch it, we are moving with it we are just using it if somebody will ask you do you have a soul yes we believe we do have a soul you are losing this soul not completely subconsciously without studying and knowing what is their soul if I ask you who are you which is your body you will show me your legs I said it is only your legs yourself your body I am moving, I am walking and I know, yes, my legs yes of course your legs are also your body but you have other organs in your body and you have a head also so with the soul, personality we don't have a soul we are the soul having bodies you have just to understand that and know it and express ourselves as the soul at least consciously before we reach that stage to express ourselves soul, ego, super consciousness this is now our difference from the animal life all around us now is our personality our soul it is and it isn't and Joshua Emanuel gave just a symbol to his disciples at that time he said that everything existing in this material world and all the worlds of existence is dual when your material body is dual he said the divine and the mundane I think that is the word in everything so, and he gave the symbol of a line he said a line definitely has two ends it's one line and it has an apprehensible middle what is that middle? of course you can guess it the middle of this line of existence in everything he said is Allah incomprehensible and the two sides is your divine nature to the human beings a spirit, soul, ego being and in the other side your personality as a time and place, space personal self but just to express a self a personal self you are expressing again the personality and he said, unless the body has a heart it cannot live unless the personality has the soul in it it cannot live but you can see the body moving you can see the personality behaving in this or that way the same way you see the body but you don't see the heart yet the heart is beating there it has the path of life so is that line so, if somebody will ask you who are you? you can say I am the spirit, soul, ego, self expressing in this world of manifestation in the world of existence myself as my personality to have a double self it's one line it's not two lines, yes, but it's one line no, I am the spirit, soul, ego, self matter that in time and in place I express myself as a material body a name and that material body and my personality which is the sum total of my impression my thoughts, my emotions and my life which is changing all the time because we are in the world of continuous change is presenting a self hearing to a male or a female name so I am asking you are you the soul? I am asking Mary or Helen or Alex or Constance are you the soul? say me what is your reply? of course you say what is the soul? I said you you are living and because you are living you are the soul but how you are living? because you are not you think you are but you are not you are body or the body and you are not you are emotions, you are desires you are weaknesses the way you express yourself but still in all these things it's you the soul you are part of your real self the soul, spirit, soul, self wrapped in veils of illusion and in the darkness of the material world so we don't have two selves we have one self and we have just to take away from that self even hearing to a name of a male or a female person all those things which have enchanted that time and place self which is not our ego it's the egoism of our personality this is what we are teaching all the time kill the ego you cannot kill the ego the ego is God till the spirit, soul, self can we kill the egoism that sum total of the impressions and the ways we are living I would call them human demons or human angels or elementals which are composing our present day personality again, no you have to clean it you don't have to kill even what you call the egoism of the personality but transmute it into itself the ego in it so what you have to do is by understanding meditating, knowing and reaching to the decision to cast away from ourselves all the illusions of the present day life cast illusions, which illusions? not liking things around us not of course of course everything is created by Allah so I will enjoy it, live in it giving it to us, to enjoy it, yes but not to enslave ourselves to all these phenomena all around us I'm asking you, being a slave of something how can you enjoy it? you cannot do it so there is not anything wrong having God created everything for all human beings to have them enjoy them and live with them but what is wrong and which the Lord Buddha had pointed out is the attachment to things considering them parts of ourselves so when we free ourselves from this enchantment then we'll be able to enjoy everything there is nothing wrong in it to live our life in a reasonable way now taking the human being I said the human being is double divine and mundane divine, the spirit, soul, ego, self mundane the present day personality with a divine heart beating giving it the life and we see the material body dual again, and you put a question to yourself why dual? in the skull there are two lobes of brains, why dual? don't the head have two eyes? why? two nostrils and everything has one side and the opposite side considering it one so is the tongue of the right cheek and the left cheek have two hands, two lungs, two feet see per person two testicles women have two ovaries and all that why two? because there is a reason and I cannot reveal more on that we are dual in one dual in one so it's a different thing we see the material body, we study the material body and we will use the material body in living our own way of life and not thinking that the material body is our self how to detach ourselves from the material body I had a question the other day from the inner circle of Athens they said can we think without the material brains? I said definitely you do because when you are out of your body in exosomatosis great distances maybe you are thinking you are using the mind in thinking and resonating in a much better way now without using the material brain it's sleeping in the skull on your bed the same way you thought that it was necessary for you to exchange a telephone call with somebody in far distance you are in need just of instruments and the wire you thought at the beginning that it was not possible without that wire to communicate now you don't need it, you have the wireless you have other means so I'm telling you the material brains these two types of brains are useful they are more for moving the parts of the body but not for many many things not for thought and reasoning so we have just to take the decision to understand that we are not our bodies but we are using them and we can use them in a better way than we are using them now we have, as the seekers of the truth after studying the material body we have to study it we have to know a little of anatomy those who will engage themselves with psychical healing should have a knowledge of anatomy but apart from that we have just to know that the mould of the material body is its mind etheric vitality double and start using it because unless we are using it we are using it now subconsciously and instinctively unless we use it consciously how can we be sure about the existence of this material of this etheric double of the material body though using it we feel we are living we are not using it how will we know that we are living that we use it subconsciously when we start using it consciously then we put other questions who am I now who can be the master of that material body I was considering it to be myself and who am I being now the master of this so called etheric body the etheric double now using it I am sure about its existence because now I am using it as kinetic ether, as aesthetic ether as imprinting ether I am using it and that by using the mind super substance as thought I can proceed on and see what more must I learn by observation meditation and trying to know start studying our personality the nature of our personality our personality then you see that there are great differences amongst the people the personality of the other people in what in the way they are expressing their desires their emotions and their reactions to these sensations and emotions so we have as a next step after studying our material body to study our personality and what is this personality made of and we see that all the time we are using subconsciously the mind super substance, formless in making forms by our desires and our wishes creating what I would call them the human demons or the human angels human demons human in nature demons having our nature these are the elementals we call them evil elementals or good elementals you see that the sum total of all these elementals good and bad are composing our present day personality what is our next step who am I now as the present day personality am I satisfied of my way of behaving and living and I get an inner voice saying NO and they say why then there would be of course a struggle in ourselves they say NO I will find myself who is myself and the things I should get rid of start to disenergize the undesirable elementals silence and put in activity the so called human demons in us and create what I would say the human angels good elementals so in this way we study now the nature of our desires in this way now we are studying the nature of our desires and our emotions then what do we say to ourselves NO I enter in this personality of mine which I am considering myself without knowing it what is this personality of mine now it is for me something concrete to study and not be slave of it slave of its composition the ego of the personality without knowing who I am and entering now in what we call our subconsciousness we have to examine now the nature of our desires at first the desires now this needs much attention what is a desire how it is created just study things step by step seeing, hearing, listening then the desire to know more about it approach it just have it, possessing it you have to study all the course of a desire this is what I call serious study and study the many kinds of desires all around us then we go a step forward my emotions, what are my emotions my relationship with other human beings male or female in the family, in the community attraction, repulsion why, what is the cause behind it we call it friendship animosity, enmity we have to study the quality of these things composing our subconsciousness enter boldly in it what is the gain in the course of time we find out who we are, who are able now just to check things control things dis-energize undesirable elementals and encourage good elementals and now we start creating consciously what we call the human angels the good elementals in us what is the gain again now life for us is giving us a pleasure life for us is no more a burden and the way you are thinking now and the way you are living now is not causing us troubles with other people in the family or in the community can we understand that we are not what we thought we were the personality's egoism with its obstinacy and all devices forcing us just to do don't get decisions, no of course at the beginning you will find the egoism of the personality complaining using all kinds of tricks because I'm telling you the egoism of the personality is as intelligent as you are and studying the elementals any elementals of any human being you will find that every elemental has the intelligence of its creator not more not less so you are on equal grounds now you have to be on the alert but when you convince you are egoism which the heart of it is yourself your soul self in it when you convince it that it's not right and you are not immortal as you are now but you can be immortal transmuting yourself to me then convincing this egoism of yours will cooperate with you to assimilate itself to you so at the beginning you will find much opposition but try to convince yourself by reasoning that you are a mortal time and place existing thing but in you is my beingness try to transmute yourself to me that means withdraw the one end of the line at least to the middle of it then it will cooperate then you understand what Joshua Manuel de Christ said the mortal will become immortal and the perishable will become imperishable because in another way it has no sense so we have to work so that we'll understand that we are not the time and place self all the time changing its attitude its behavior and its nature but we are we now somebody will put the question but who is just starting doing all this work myself as George and Mary my present day personality starting searching to do all this work or my real self my spirit, soul, ego I say both in one because they are one you are dual in one this is the main work that the seeker of this truth has to do there are many many branches and many many fields of study and of investigation but I say we have plenty of time to do it and we have the obligation after all to start using the mind super substance at least consciously not subconsciously in creating only what we call evil elementals human demons tomorrow the lesson will be more in the using of the mind super substance vitality in creating constructive elementals speak more on the nature of the elementals because this is a matter that you can never exhaust now we just make a meditation relax completely your material body start from the toes the legs the thighs the belly the chest the head put your hands on your knees both of them and breathe deeply in six beats inhaling and six beats of the heart inhaling start inhaling exhale inhale exhale inhale exhale inhale in this rhythm in this rhythm start meditating now keep on this rhythm in breathing warm red blood is circulating now in my whole body my heart beats and in it it's the pulse of life I breathe now deeply and in there I'm breathing it's also the mind vitality of God God is in me I'm in God I'm in His omnipresent oneness I am one with it I am one with everybody I am life I am living the holy archangels of the elements are working now through my etheric double they are working sustaining my material body though breathing I am filling my lungs with fresh air in this breath I'm breathing it's also the mind vitality which I can send in every part of my material body just where the air cannot go breathe and see visualize the etheric vitality as white light entering through your nostrils passing through your lungs and fill your left leg filling it it means filling it with this white light exhaling you take the air out of your lungs in some cases but inhaling again air is also mind vitality by exhaling you don't take it out you have it stored where you have decided to store it fill your left leg with that white vitality in breathing see this white light entering through your nostrils through your lungs and going down to your left leg I said by feeling your left leg leave it full of this light now breathing this light white light vitality through your nostrils it passes through your lungs and is going to your right foot now from the toes to the place you are sitting on your chair see it filling your right leg now breathing deeply see this white light entering through your nostrils passing through your lungs going down to both your legs see them white see this white light rotating from your legs it is there feeling it it means you are there now continue breathing receiving this white light mind vitality through your nostrils passing through your lungs filling your belly don't take your attention away from your legs which are full of white light now your belly is this white light to the one who believes in Haudenosaunee I am saying rivers of living water will run out from his belly said Joshua Manuel this is very vitality fill your whole belly and your legs are full of white light breathing of course your lungs are full of this white light and your hands are full of this white light now feel your head is also full of this white light your whole material body now in breathing you feel it with this white light taking out the air from your nostrils you take all the air and gaze but not that white light now feel your material body and feel this mind vitality in your body as white light the colorless light and the white light are Allah God himself in another exercise tomorrow you are using other colored lights with other properties of this mind vitality now what you are doing the holy archangels which are in your bodies working now, sustaining your bodies are aware of what you are doing believe me they are pleased and they will help you do this exercise this afternoon when you are free that will help you concentrate