Daskalos-Jun-2-1992-A-The-Way-Home Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. The lesson today for those who want to get out of the confusion and know the truth should be most precious. This lesson today is based on my own experiences. And of course, these experiences coincide with the teachings of great, great ones who had lived in past centuries. In the teachings of Buddha, of Confucius, of all mystics in Egypt, in other countries. And it's confirmed by the Godman, Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, our Lord. All this teaching is included in the New Testament. Teaching. It means nothing unless this teaching should become your way of life. It's not enough just reading, even acknowledging that this is the truth, and nothing more than that. Now what I will say, I say again it is my own experiences, and it will be your own experiences sooner or later. Because there is no other way coming back to our real self, finding our real self. So the way is using the mind in the proper way and investigating the truth. Of course, there are many, many other pathways which other great ones have shown. But all those pathways are leading us to the same goal, which is to find out what we are and who we are. What is life? And especially it will be answered the question until this moment that really makes people wonder, what's God? Who is God? Everybody, I say sooner or later, will have these experiences. Because it is the attraction that our real self has to undergo by our divine absolute nature. We are living now as human beings. For how long? Just as human beings for a good number of centuries. Yes, but how long? We have to find our way back to our real divine nature, which is our real self. Is it easy to do it? Of course, in the way we have entangled our petty time and place little self, which is not really our self, with all those interests building a present-day personality with its egoism, it isn't so easy. We have to take off all those clothes which are covering us and find now the mind, pure mind, a super substance, as the perfect mirror in which we will see ourself. Now, basically, we know that what is, always was, and always will be, is the absolute, infinite, let us call it reality, beingness, selfhood, God, unmanifested, incomprehensible, but it is the reality. So, this absolute, infinite selfhood and beingness is and exists, because we have just to study the two natures of this absolute, infinite beingness, its divine, unmanifested self in its self-sufficiency, and also must study now its nature in its multiplicity, expressing what we say, the real pleasure of manifesting itself in itself by the beings, billions and billions and billions, big old number beings, immortal gods. There is only one God, God the Father, but there are similar beings in it, which are the holy archangels, our brethren. So, in the absolute, infinite beingness, in the absolute, infinite selfhood, these beings are exactly, by what we call atonement, the same as the absolute, infinite beingness. So, we cannot distinguish them. They are one, but this is rather difficult to understand it, as long as you are under the pressure of the world of separateness. But you may understand, of course, it is, if you reach that state of atonement or oneness with the absolute reality, and the absolute, this brethren of us, the holy archangels of the elements. Now, so, as human beings, we can know nearly nothing about the incomprehensible state of the absolute, infinite beingness, even about our divine state as spirit beings, but we can know much using the mind, the super substance of the mind, knowing what is this mind in all its frequencies, and by that seeing how the holy archangels are using this mind in creating the universes. All the universes. How many? Human beings cannot know much, but we can trace at least seven heavens. We can trace seven universes, and we can find ourselves in these universes, and now realize what we are. I'm telling you, you are not just a mass of matter living in the human form only, just a living being, a phenomenon of life, like all the other animals all around you. We are God's sons of the Almighty. These are the sayings of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. These were the words of all those great ones who had lived in past centuries, but it's not just only to know that. By hearing what we are taught or what we have read, just read in books, you must find it, and Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said it clearly, know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Free from what? From the illusions, illusions, and from that personality of us, which we think it is ourself, giving us so much pain, agony, and a kind of a satisfactory way of living. That was the aim why the locust was humanized in Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, and came down just to throw us back. So I said, what I will tell you is out of my own experiences, which will be your experiences sooner or later. There is no other way. You are not immortal personalities, yet you are immortal soul-spirits. So you must reach that self-realization. You may read many, many books on mysticism in the East, many others. Yes, they show a pathway, but are those pathways, of course all pathways are leading to the same goal, sooner or later, but are those pathways safe? Are they the short ones? So we have two ways, and you have to choose. The one way is reasoning and using the mind properly in studying, understanding, understanding and knowing by using the bodies, understanding what we are and what we are not. This is the one way, which is the aim of the esoteric teachings, and which is the other way, that 80% of the people are going through. The way of destiny, of cause and effect, the Hindus call it karma, the whip of destiny. Everybody will come back home. The prodigal son cannot remain in the brothels. Sooner or later he will return back home to his own divine nature. So I said that this is the way 80% of the people now on the planet are following. Yes, feeling that whip of destiny, which Christ said, whatever one shows, so he shall reap. And we can study this law, of cause and effect, the laws of relativity. We can follow now if we like the orthodox science, because a true mystic who is leading the path of mysticism is not rejecting the orthodox science as it is today, and as it will be tomorrow, because the orthodox science is just proving God, he believed all the time, he knew, just presenting it in another way. So many are asking me, you keep the keys, you don't give us the keys. Which keys? I'm giving you at every moment the keys. The keys is just knowing, understanding, which is the super substance of the mind, start using it in the proper way, living the proper life, and studying, using in our logic, and all the other ways which are given, I am giving them, of just understanding what is consciousness at the beginning, just to study all the levels of consciousness, to find in that yourself your self- consciousness. There is not any mystery in it. What it is, it is from the part of the others hearing, just to get the trouble and work on it. Just a brother guide, an instructor, he may hold the torch lighting your way, as all those have done before, even Christ, saying I am the light of the world, he can take you from the hand and guide you, he is a guide, but don't expect to take on his shoulders and cover for you the way back. You have to train your two feet and go on. What are these two feet that you have to use? Becoming masters of emotion and of thought. You have to make the balance, that means use both as a master now, of your psychical body and your nautical body. Understand what they are and what you are for them and in these bodies. So, unless you know the existence of something and being able to use that something, you cannot be sure that these things do exist. Many great ones spoke about these three bodies, the cross-material body, the so-called psychical body, and what you call the nautical body, calling it spiritual body. No, they speak about these three bodies, Confucius in the Lao, Buddha, you find it in all mystical systems, Christ clearly, more clearly, but who really is interested now to find out how am I now, who made me as I am now, and what can I do for my bodies? I make the mistake to think that they are myself. I must find out that really I am not the bodies and the bodies are given me to use them and make good use of them. So, human beings now, I say, 80% are just living in the darkness of ignorance, what concerns life, the world, and themselves even as time and place personalities. So, we have to find it out. So, we said we should use the mind. The mind is supersubstance, formless, yet in it are all the laws, causes, and principles. It is what you call the first expression of the real pleasure of the infinite beingness to express itself in itself, in itself through the mind. Yes, because the absolute infinite beingness is everywhere, is omnipresent. So, it is in itself. And we spoke about the holy archangels and all the archangelic orders, beings, billions, beyond number, as our own spirit, self, ego. We are not different to all those divine gods in the absolute infinite beingness. A spirit solely because we have never been created. We were always in God the Father. As human beings we have been created. So, we have to study these two states of our existing beingness. So, this absolute infinite beingness is what I will call its absolute total wisdom. We can trace that studying the manifestations in life and see that in every phenomenon of life, in the world of existence, starting from the cross-material world, from the world, the amoeba, anything will find the total wisdom as harmony in life and also will find the almightiness of the absolute infinite beingness. Nothing is beyond its control by studying what we call the circles of possibilities and also the circles, many, of probabilities around any circle of possibilities. So, already human beings have now everything ready, thanks to those great ones who have worked for centuries and centuries, incarnated and reincarnated to present the truth. So, there is no excuse now for people because things are easier now for them. The way back is well-lighted now. So, the mystery is in learning what is the mind, a super substance, in it having the principles, the causes and the effects. The effects are reformed to be seen in the world of universes vibrating a substance now, not a super substance. That is the neurotic world, the neurotic universe. And also seeing the mind vibrating in lower frequencies of vibration, which is what we call the psychical substance, from which is the psychical world. Then we can study the will-pleasure of God, dynamically, as energy, as living etheric vitality, which creates what we call the etheric doubles of these bodies, which are the modes in which the bodies are constructed and sustained every moment. So, we have to study all that. And then study even the material body. How do common people now know more than their material form? Material form. But this form is not only material, cross-material, rounded, our material human body, because our form is also having the light of a substance, a super substance, the spiritual light. So, we must study what are we as a human form? And what is that human form? Is it a creation, or it will be always and eternally? Here is our difference from Buddhism now, because our self-consciousness will never be dissolved and annihilated in the whole, because we can never take away from us our human form, having what we call its spiritual now body, because unless this is not so, one is lost. And what was the purpose of the infinite beingness of God, of life, in creating just a creature to be lost? That would be without any sense. But we have to investigate it. Now, we have two ways now. Starting how the holy archangels are using the mind in creating universes and worlds and our bodies. So, outside. And what concerns our petty now little self, which is in reality the shadow of our self. And because our self is God, even its shadow is divine. So, we have now to study that. You put the question now, study, who will study it? Our spirit, soul, ego, self? No, because our inner beingness knows everything. Who will study that? That place of our divine nature, the parts of life, which is in our present day personality, which is all the time changing. Because as a human being, having the bodies under the control of the holy archangels, we have also in the bodies a kind of time and place selfhood, the self of our present day personality, which is the will of the logos. Because as a personality we are logoic. As bodies we are also logoic and holy spiritual. We have just to find out this truth by introspection and studying what is taking place in us, in our bodies. Not in our body, only the material body, because in the same way we can just start studying the material body. We'll find out as reality our psychical body and work in it, and also our neurotic body, and work in it, and become the masters of these bodies. Who? The holy ego, spiritual? No, we, with it. Because we as human beings, we have the parts of life, in reality, the heart of our existence, is a ray of the absolute infinite beingness and our real self. That's why Christ said, the mortal will become immortal and the perishable will become imperishable. Which means, what is the perishable and what is the imperishable? The perishable is what is continuously changing. That part of your personality is continually changing. As your material body, we are continually changing. From a spermatozoon, birth, growing and growing and growing, until we reach an age when we leave the material body. Why? We are continuously changing. You have to learn what is the material body. We make the mistake to think that it is ourselves, which it isn't. Now we shall find the entity, the personality, in the material body. And what do we find? That the part of the material body, this entity, is a creature, something created. And that is what we call our psychical body. We must learn, see it, use it. We are using it day and night already, subconsciously, without knowing its existence. You have to know it now, properly, and using it, becoming the master of this psychical body. Does the psychical body have a form? Definitely, you are form. Only he, that psychical body, is stressed with what we call psychical substance. And then one should know the existence of his noetical body. Does it have a form? Exactly the same form. But now we have in it what we call noetical substance and super substance. We are using it also subconsciously. By using subconsciously our psychical body and our noetical body, it makes us different from the other animals around us. Because the animals around us cannot use these levels of consciousness, thought, and real emotion. Instead of emotion, the animal life around us is expressing instinct. We have also instinct, but instinct is not what we call emotion. So we have to study now the nature of our personality, find in it ourselves who will start studying to reach the self-realization, to understand that I am not the bodies, I am using them. How will we do that? By introspection. We have just to study the behavior of our present-day personality. The reactions taking place in our personality as a man or as a woman through the five senses from the outside world. Studying will find out what influence all these experiences have on us as a personality. We start now studying the elementals composing our present-day personality. That's why I said that. Studying the elementals is the most important thing one has to know. Because as a building is composed and constructed on materials, we have around us bricks. You cannot have a construction unless you have these things. You can never have a personality of a man unless these elementals are building it up. So the present personality of every human being, man or a woman, is built up by the reactions and the behavior of the elementals composing it and the elementals either we as personality, not as an ecosystem, have created or have re-energized from the psychical atmosphere around us. So these things one should know them and work with them. Start making what you call self-analysis. And self-analysis now I mean the emotional side of a personality. Put another one. Know this what we call subconscious mind, your subconsciousness, which is the heart of the present-day personality. That's not difficult because in it is recorded everything you have experienced. There you will work in what you call your subconsciousness. So one of the first lessons one has to learn is to study itself as a personality and then develop this personality to higher and higher and higher and higher levels of consciousness to reach the self- realization, now becoming master of the bodies, combining them in one form, his human form. But now clean, pure, not contaminated, not dirty. Dirty? Yes, because in this present-day personality you have very bad, muddy poops and stagnant waters, bad smelling, which you call hatred, enmity, jealousy, so many, many other human weaknesses in us. We have just to face them boldly, study them, know what they are and how by using higher elements, which is the thought, exterminate their effect on us, elementals. As I said in the lesson, no one can destroy an elemental, once created, because it's made of living matter. But what we can do? We can de-energize it so that it will slumber in the cosmic consciousness and leave us alone. The seeker of the truth is shown the way how to do it. Study these elementals. Shall we say that these elementals are composing, what we say, our psychical body and our neurotic body? Composing them? No, they have their structure, they have their form, they have their own substance, but still they are composing the present-day psychical and neurotic bodies. That means our present-day personality. But on that form of what we call the psychical body form and our neurotic body form, there are continuously changes, not in the form, not in the human form, in the purity of that form, as changes are taking place in our material body, but not in our material, not in our form, materialized, so it happens in the other bodies. Now, which is the form? Our form, as human beings, the etheric doubles of the bodies, the molds in which these bodies are built up and constructed. Many have observed that after amputating a part of your body, I have heard very many say that the whole foot is removed, and of course, disorbitated. Still they feel pain in the place where are the toes. They say, that's kind of bad. Is that my imagination? No, because the material foot can be taken away, but not the form. And the etheric double of the material body, which is the mold in which the material body is built up, is there. And when what you call aesthetic or feeling-giving ether is there, they feel pain, of course. This is not something one or two people have experienced, but hundreds. Now, why another foot is not growing since the mold exists there? Because as we are today, you have developed the nervous system, which is not easy to create it immediately. Yet in certain animals, parts removed are recreated in many. In the snakes, in the lizards, cutting the tail, it will grow. On what you call the concept, cutting a foot, it will grow. So, it's difficult just to grow again a foot, material foot, after amputated, but the form is there. Nobody can destroy or affect the form. Of course, there are different laws in the material world concerning the cross-material body. What about our form in the psychical world? We have the substance there instead of the form, as material, cross-material body. Now, a fellow can kill another fellow's body only, and that fellow will find himself in the psychical place. So, the material, cross-material form of the body can be destroyed. But can one destroy the psychical body? No, because this substance is easily reconstructed. If something happens to a human being in his material body, a blast, a bomb, just making the material body in pieces, he will find himself in his psychical body, perfectly all right there. And if you tell him, you know, this and this happened, maybe he might remember something, and you say, yes, of course, I woke from a very bad dream. You're not thinking it was the reality. I had this experience many, many times in helping people going to the other side. They say, but you see me right here. You are dead. What do you say, sir? I'm dead. Since I speak to you and I touch you, how am I dead? So, there is no such a thing as death, annihilation of the personality, or dissolution of the personality. So, one finds himself or herself in the psychical body, but you have different now conditions in life, because that psychical body has around it a shell, a shell hell or a shell paradise. We create every moment. We said that our personality has in it all the elementals composing it. Shall we say that? Our psychical body, now, in our material bodies, is in such a shell hell or shell paradise? Definitely. But we cannot see that. Clairvoyant people can see it. And I said in a lesson that no one will find himself after the death of the material body in any hell or in any paradise. He is not already now. Nobody will get from the hand a personality casting away the material body and say, no, look here. Here is your place. You have done that and that and that. Many religions speak about the judgment. Nothing more blasphemous, such thing does not exist. One finds simply himself or herself to deliver or discipline of the psychical world. They are vibrating now. We are placing ourselves in the place in which we deserve to be. So, the psychical body, in its form, is not just like the material body, undergoing quick and sudden changes. It is also the neurotic body. And even not as a body now, we have what we call our spiritual self, so that we are not lost as a self-conscious being in time and place, as a soul. So, these things you can experience in due course. I say either by reasoning or by the whip of destiny. The prodigal son has to return back home sooner or later. Now, the way of using the mind properly, I can't say it is difficult, but I can say it is very easy. What is difficult? Just the way of destiny, karma, as the Hindus say. They would say that this way is the painful one. It's a way that gives deep personality, despair, pain, agony, and dissatisfaction. So, what is the aim of the seekers of the truth, of the researchers of the truth? What is their aim? In using the right way of meditation, using the mind in the proper way, and developing, raising up their consciousness to higher and higher and higher levels. To come to the self-realization that knowing what we are, and we find out that we are not what we thought we were, that means our material body, the psychical body, as emotions, weaknesses, reactions, desires, and many, many other things, and we are not also our nautical body as such, thinking how we can just find out that we are not all that.