Daskalos-Jun-29-1992-A-Wakeful-Life Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and to all other human beings. Amen. A day is going, another day is coming. And so, weeks, months, and years are going, and we are living. Why? What for we are living? We are living in a human body, in a material body, for which the holy archangels of the elements, the mind elements, are laboring and are working unceasingly to keep it in good health. Why? For us? For whom? Why? Why? Is that work just in vain, for no purpose? There is not an aim behind it. No. We are living just in a community, a family, in a nation, as human beings, each one his or her own life. If we ask all these persons living in our place, in our country, in our community, in our nation, if they are satisfied, what do we think they will reply to you? That they are satisfied? No. At least, most of them will say, no. So many troubles, so many things torturing us. Then you have the right to ask them and say, why? Why you have so many things torturing you and making you suffer? And who is responsible for that? They should put the question to themselves, as we should put this question to ourselves. But people are avoiding to put this question to themselves. They find faults all the time on the others. Never on themselves. They are never wrong. All around them are wrong. All around them are behaving in a bad way, except themselves. Now, a seeker of the truth, and in reality every human being, should start thinking using his mind. What is life? Who am I? What is going on around me? Start using the mind to study, so that he will know at least the relative truth behind the phenomena. Can he do that? Of course he can. But he doesn't do it. Why? Because he thinks he has more important things to do. Torturing himself with troubles, with worries, with a kind of living who is not giving satisfaction. What one should do, or should be taught to do, soon he starts thinking. I mean, being an adult, a man or a woman, he should be taught to use his or her mind and the right thinking. Not just expect to find things as they are, from the family, from the parents, from the society, and just go on doing the same mistakes, doing the same stupid life, leading to worries, pain, suffering. Leading to overgrowing a stupid personal egoism, by obeying blindly desires and emotions, without studying what they are. And why should we just follow all that? What for? So everybody is becoming slave of the circumstances others have created, and of his unwillingness to use the mind to think. Think what? First of all, who is he or she as a person in that society? What he or she is expecting from life? In a reasonable way now, not of course following the example of all those around him or her, in the family or in the community, since they will see that they are not happy. That they are suffering. He or she should be taught. What is a desire? How a desire is created? How that desire is dominating over us, enslaving us? What this desire, fulfilled or not fulfilled, is offering us, can offer us. He must be taught what is desire. Now, of course, these are things that he should start working on. But before he should just start thinking, what do I expect from life? What life can offer me? And what is life expecting from me? Because life, or God, is expecting something from us. He didn't send us just to live without any purpose. Just think. So many Archangels of the mind elements, Caprils, Raphaels, Michaels, Urials, and all that working in a material body just to keep it in good health. Just study what work is needed to keep all those organs in the body, not only alive, but all the time fit to serve us. And then put the question, why? What for all this toil and trouble from the holy Archangels? We are living in a material body. I'm telling you, not by right, by the grace of God. Because we don't deserve it. At least most of us do not deserve living in this body, which is created and sustained by the holy Archangels. So just only that should wake us up to think properly. Because, yes, life needs from us something. We should not all the time claim and claim and claim to have from life. So, an adult, young man or a young woman, should just be taught to put things down and ask themselves, what do I expect from life? And what I should expect from life? There are two different things. Maybe contaminated by the circumstances, by the parents, by the society, by the family, by the community, we'll go on the same stupid ways. It's not what do I want from life, but what I should like having from life. Just come to the conclusion. Sitting around in the family, he may see sick persons, in the family or in the environment. He must seek a healthy body. He or she is entitled to it. And this is very, very natural. What is unnatural is the illness and not the good health. Then start thinking, how can I have this good health in my body? And avoid getting illnesses by using the mind. One should know how to do it. Second, what must I expect from life? Because now the circumstances count, the family financial condition, the community financial condition, what the community can offer. And now say, according to what I have before me, he can have changes for the better, living in another place. That's all right. They must think about it. If not, what the present circumstances are offering me. Because I am in those circumstances to learn my lessons. Why should he or she be born in that family, in that community, in that place, in that nation? Because for everything there is reason behind it. Nothing is by chance. So now finding himself or herself in certain circumstances, he or she should see what according to the present circumstances I must do to qualify myself to live a satisfactory life to me and to the others. I mean the right education. And then see if he or she has the means for that. Now in the present time everybody has the chance to educate himself or herself in any place of the world. Now, apart from that, what is life offering me? And what do I expect from life? Become rich. Very, very, very rich. Why? Become that or that or that or that. So, one should put things in the balance all the time and use reason. I have these desires, having that and that and that and that. Should I have them? Why? Do I need them? Why? Because the others have it and I should have it. So, one should just study what is this impulse of possessiveness and what can that give a man. Now, is that necessity or greediness? Maybe one of the two. Maybe both. Just start thinking. Then, think of something else. In this life, we have things pleasing, satisfying, giving us more or even more and more satisfaction. And there are things and conditions giving us the contrary. Dissatisfaction, more pain, sorrow, agony. So, this is the point one should engage himself or herself with. In this life, I must have something either from the one side or from the other side. Of course, all the time, you will have either from the other side or the other side. And you must find out that. Pleasing things, satisfaction of desires, maybe satisfaction of certain emotions, are giving us some pleasure. You must study this kind of pleasure. Is this pleasure or satisfaction lasting? And if not, why it is not just going on? It has an end to it. Then, from the other side, something giving us pain, trouble, dissatisfaction. Can we avoid it? If we go on like that, what will be the end of it? Clashes, sorrows, enmities. Sometimes, you shall observe something else within us. Obstinacy. A devilish why now? Why that and that and that and why should I not do that or that or that? But, here is needed the reason. Is it worthwhile just prolonging this evil way of living? All these things do happen every day in our life, in all the communities, in all the places, everywhere. You will see it clearly. People are finding themselves in such states of living. So, how to come out of it? Here is the main point. By using the mind. And I said in a lesson, a man is using all the members of his body, feet, hands, and everything except his mind. He is expecting others to think for him or for her. And that's wrong. That's the reason for every pain and misery coming to a human being. So, what should schools and parents, what they should teach the young boys and girls? Mathematics? Yes, why not? To forget them after a little while they leave the school. Geography? That's good, just to know something about the planet and the people living there. And again, to forget it after they leave school. Algebra? Geometry? They are good things to be taught. History? This is very dangerous. Wars, hatreds, and all that, they should go away from the schools. Which means, at least three-fourths of what is taught in the schools is not only unnecessary, but dangerous. What a man should be taught? What's life? Who and what he is or she is? Say, psychology? Parapsychology and all that? Yes. Yes, from the school, but unfortunately this science is in its infancy yet. All sciences have advanced except this parapsychology and psychology. Because in psychology and parapsychology, I mean using the mind observation and the actions and reactions of a personality. Do you have now psychiatrists? They claim that they are psychiatrists. After all, I have many in our circles calling themselves psychiatrists, having just a diploma to hang on the wall. And doing nothing. They are failing completely. Unless they know what they should do. So, what a man or a woman should learn was to be a good psychologist. He or she can become one by using the mind. In just arranging his or her relations with the other human beings. He should know how the others are behaving and why they are behaving and in which way he or she has to behave. To balance things. So, a man, a young man or a woman, have to learn how to use their mind. Thinking. Now, we start studying it. And we see that until the present moment, most people, they are isolating the mind as such, inserting the desires. Many times these desires were unbridled and stupid. And emotions, most of the time egoistic behavior. This is wrong. Now, he or she should decide to free the mind from being slave of desires and emotions. He or she, himself or herself, start using the mind, studying the emotions and the desires and decide if they are to be satisfied. And now, being master of thought, he or she should know how to use the mind to satisfy those desires. Because I don't mean that all desires are evil or useless. If that was so, why God allowed all that to come in us? So, one should first learn how to use their mind as master of everything and not slave of desires or of emotions. Emotions. One who studies his or her emotions. Now, a good psychoanalyst can know much hearing people talking about their sufferings and the things that are troubling them. What one finds out? That the emotions, all those people, men or women, who are calling love is on egoistic foundations. And that was not love at all. Because love for those people meant the slavery of the other one, man or a woman, to our egoism, to our personality, to obey us. To flatter us. And, if that was not so, the contrary would happen. Despising at first and even enmity. Cruelty. Now, one should just think soberly. I feel, I have this feeling. What is the quality of this feeling? To satisfy God? To me, it is. But what for? To enslave a living being, male or female, to my desires? Just to my hands. To handle that fellow the way I like. But every human being has his or her own will, which sooner or later will not stand this behavior from the other part. What we see day and night all around us in this society? People claiming that they love each other from the opposite sex. At the beginning, marrying or living without being married, to start fighting, quarreling, separating, and if they are married, to end with divorces. Living victims. I said before, we want much from life, but life wants enough also from us. Because if you give life to children, you cannot sacrifice them on the altar of a satanic egoism. And stupidity makes young souls unhappy. And giving them very, very bad lessons, just to continue like that their life. So, who is responsible for all this misery, which is now in the world, in all the communities, in all the countries? Yes, we said that. The personal egos. Egos of a personality. And, because people do not know, or they do not want to use their mind. Use their mind now. How? Just to check that monster in them called egoism. So, the most important lesson is, for one, to keep on the alert, criticizing his personality's behavior, finding behind it that monster called egoism, Egoism, because of all misery, because of all crimes committed. Now, one would say, but is that an easy thing to do? The easiest thing to do, if you decide to look better and see that this egoism of yours is not really yourself. But as long as you think the egoism of your personality is yourself, it is very difficult. I am telling you that. Egoism is very, very cunning to masquerade itself as being yourself. So, it needs much thinking. The will of making what you call self-analysis, and you find out the reality. And here is the greatest gain you have, which is, now, I am not what I thought I was, just an obstinate egoism of a personality, but I am the one who can think, decide, and master things. And I think this is a great gain. So, using the mind soberly, we can study and find the relative truth concerning circumstances and things in our life. These are the means how we can save ourselves from troubles, misery, and illness. Illness, because I am telling you, all kinds of illnesses coming to a human body are coming from the psychical body. They are psychosomatic. They appear, first of all, in the psychical plane, and then they appear on the physical body. All hatred, complaints, bad behavior, obstinacy, are poisons in the material body. And these things are giving a kind of self-punishment. Self-punishment. There is not any punishing God or punishing archangels. The archangels are ceasingly working in our bodies, just to remedy all the sicknesses, to close wounds, to join bones. We are poisoning our bodies and our self with the way we are living, we are thinking, we are behaving. So, one should know that the so-called weaknesses, jealousies, enmities, hatred, and all that, have in them already the punishment. And one should be careful about that. Now, using the mind, studying things and circumstances all around us, we can know certain laws governing life. We can study laws governing the physical nature and everything physical on the material plane. And we find out that nature is governed by laws which cannot be changed. The law of gravity, the law of cohesion, so many things. All the worlds and all the universes are governed by laws in the psychical universe. And as our material body should obey, and it is under those physical laws of the physical world, so is our psychical body. So, there are laws under the laws of the psychical world. There are laws also in the neurotic plane, the world of thoughts. So, there are laws in the world of emotions, of desires, and of thoughts. And as long as we use them to build up our present-day personality, from them we are just the ones responsible for what comes to us as a result of our contraventions. By using the mind and observation, we can find out these laws. And these laws are just to serve us if we are not going against them. So, one has to think, to observe, and insist to know. And that knowledge will come to him or to her. Now, illness in the material body. Can we get rid of this illness? Which illness? Any kind of illness. If it is not, of course, too late. How? By changing our attitude. Changing in such a way as to stop the cause of this illness. That illness will stop. Even cancers. Yes, many times I have seen even cancers stop torturing a fellow. Why not all of them? Because all of them are not willing to change. They are not willing to become good people, good persons, loving persons. You say, but is that an easy thing? Just in a day or two to change your character. Then, one has to suffer. That is not possible for him or her. But I don't think it isn't possible. If one wants to have that change. That the cause of illness is guilt, subconsciously felt. We can see it in the Bible. First of all, Christ, before curing someone, he felt the need to lighten that personality from the burden of guilt. St. Paul says, your sins are forgiven. That was a kind of suggestion. Coming out of suggestion. He was believing it. He was cured. So, there are psychological teachings in the Bible. Second is what we call faith. What is faith? Believing. Believing. German fellow believed something which is not real. Impossible. Believing means learning, studying, knowing, and believing. And he said, your faith has saved you. So, knowing the loss, governing, health. I mean, knowing the loss of the psychical world is really living a man. Is that all we can learn by using the mind? No. Using the mind every day we have to learn new and new things, which we need to know in our life. We can learn the natural laws. Not, for instance, because those will come on our head. Learn the law of gravity. We should learn by using the mind and observation. So, our life should be a continuous study. Study life, what is in life. Study our material body, how to keep it in good health. Study the most important lesson. Our personality. Now, this is the point. Who is studying the personality? Are we double? Because who will study, will concentrate, insist to know, and who is the other one? That self of ours, to be criticized, to be studied with many, many faults. Many, many faults. Who will see these faults now? And who will decide how these faults would be corrected? Who is the other self? Who will reason these faults? Want to continue these faults because says they are pleasing him? Then this is the point you catch your egoism. Say, you know, I am not you. I am your master. Till this present moment you are deceiving me that you are myself. Making me to behave in such a way to be ashamed. Making me behave in such a way which gives me pain. It gives you also pain, but the egoism is a masochist. He likes that pain because that gives him the sense of living. But that doesn't satisfy us. Using the mind, we find the relative truth concerning our personality. Relative truth. But the real truth behind it is still something more. We are not the personality. And the self behaving as the personality. But we will find out that our self behind the personality is just a glorious self. But even so, we shall study now the self, master of the present, the personality. So I find our self, our real self, expressing itself in various stages. And we'll study what we call awareness, consciousness, subconsciousness, superconsciousness. Because these are much, much more difficult things to deal ourselves with for the time being. You cannot do that unless we are free from our personal egoism, who disturbs us all the time, claiming and claiming and claiming the satisfaction of desires, believing that that egoism is serving us. So it needs much thought, concentration, and especially observation. Nothing should escape our attention. Which means starting our life. Our life. Usually people go just to interfere in the life of the others. Criticize the others. Claim changes from the others. They don't start from themselves. Finding faults in others. The same faults in them are not observed. They are growing. And maybe sometimes we find them as virtues. So we have now to use the right measure. I had the other day an experience. I was in a friend. His son, about 12 years of age, has done something which for me is very stupid and very bad to do it. If that fellow would have seen that done by the son of his friend, he would say, oh, look at this stupid boy, why he is doing that. That isn't good. He shouldn't do it. But because his son has done it, his son was clever, and he would just present it as, yes, what a clever boy my son, and he did that. Unfortunately, I am a mannerly Cypriot, and I don't avoid giving slaps. Of course, not publicly, but I got him from there. I went there and said, you need two slaps now. If that is done by a neighbor, you will find that neighbor boy is clever, because your son has done it. Oh, what a clever boy, he thought about it, doing this.