Daskalos-Mar-2-1993-A-Same-as-the-Source Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to show our love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Just a repetition. What is, is the absolute, infinite beingness. The absolute, infinite reality. What is, was, and will always be. Now, what exists now. And is also. The absolute, infinite beingness. The El Shaddai, the Locus. So, the Locus is the absolute, infinite beingness. Manifesting itself in itself. Manifesting in what way? Expressing its total wisdom and its almightiness. So the almightiness and the total wisdom is in the absolute, infinite beingness. And now it is expressed, manifested through that quality. We don't have a second God now. The absolute, infinite beingness is the absolute, infinite beingness also. I and the Father are one. Says Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, feeling himself as the El Shaddai, the Locus. So, we have now the manifestation. We said before that in the absolute, infinite beingness are billions and billions and billions and billions beyond numbers. We can't call them now beings yet. There is not God for it. But we will call them beings the time the absolute, infinite beingness is becoming the absolute, infinite beingness, the Locus. So manifested this, let us call them Gods. The same as the absolute, infinite beingness. They are not inferior. They are the same in nature. They have in them the total wisdom and the almightiness. So we call them now beings. As we said yesterday, these beings, Gods, passing through, what we call the prism, the will pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness to express itself, in itself, they are classifying themselves according to their nature. Who knows? What is this nature? Who can say that the light, colorless, passes through a prism, becomes red, blue and yellow? It becomes. It's its nature. So the same way, these beings now, passing through the El Shaddai, the Locus, the manifestation of the absolute, infinite beingness, having in them, as their own nature, the nature of the beingness, the total wisdom and the almightiness, classify themselves to their Archangelic orders. As Mahals. It's not an Archangel called Mahal or Michael. There are billions and billions and billions of Mahals. And Raphaels. And Urals. And Gabriels. Billions. As there are thousands of human beings. With the difference now, all the Archangels of the same order, the Mahals, have their own individuality and they are all yet one. Because they are not separated from each other. They enjoy all of them, their whole Archangelic selfhood. So think a Mahal, you see all Mahals. See a Gabriel, you see all Gabriels. Think a man, you don't see all human beings as having the same character and the same way of living. So only the human genus, I'll call it in this way, because the Archangels are a system. They are Archangelic systems. Now the human beings, it's hard to call by the Greek word, genus. Each one of us is a separate personality. This is the difference. We have entered completely in what I would say is the world of existence, the world of separateness. They are not separated from each other, but we are as human beings. Now, we said that these beings, through the El Chetai or the Locos, passing, classify themselves according to their own nature, to their Archangelic order. Their vibrations sound their names. These names have not been given by human beings. It is just the vibrations, a sound of their nature. We said that. When the Absolute Infinite, Penis, expresses itself now as the Absolute Infinite Beingness, the Locos, this creates the mind. Immediately, the mind emanates from the Absolute Infinite Beingness as the means of manifestation. And from this, the Archangelic beings, definitely, they are exactly the same as the Source. So, the mind emanates from all the Archangelic orders, but now, colored. We have the mind now in different rates of vibrations and frequencies. According to the work they are going to do in the world of creation, of the manifestation, we have now the mind elements. We said that. Everything which has been created is now and will be created following the total wisdom and the Almightyness of these Archangelic orders and of their Source. The Locos is made of what we call the mind. Nothing in manifestation is not the mind. So, the mind, as human intelligence can understand it now, is the formless super- substance. The substance having in it the forms. Then we have that kind of mind expressing the will-pleasure for manifestation. Pleasure. I won't call it desire. We call it the psychical worlds. Then we have the in-between vibrations which we call ether. The ethereal worlds. Then we have the material world. When I say material world, I mean the planet, this satellite, all planets, all solar systems, all galaxies, and everything material in this world of existence. That's not only our planet. So, the planet is a solid mind studying matter. You will find that. This matter consists of atoms and splitting an atom. Autodox science now found it out and all mystics knew it all through the centuries. It's a solar system. There's a nucleus, electrons, protons, neutrons, and all things behaving the same way in an atom of matter as the solar system. Having in it the mind as the total wisdom and the almightyness of the creator. An atom of matter. So, in an atom of matter we have a solar system. So, now we see the mind. Of course, when we see the mind, as most human beings think, is this a handful of the tulips of the brain? No, that's a handful of clay, of matter. I said in a lesson that a battery is not electricity. It may be charged with electricity, but it may not have any charge. It is thrown away. So, it is not the material brains in the skull which is the mind. You say, what is our mind then? Are we in the absolute universal mind? Yes. We are in the absolute matter on the planet. Yet, we have our own body. We have our own existence, our own individuality. We are living on the material plane. We are getting matter and take out of our material body matter. Yes, that is true. But we have our own material body which is separated from all other material things on the planet. Likewise, we are in the pansympathetic mind, yet we have our own mind-self. Mind-self, why do I use now the word self? Because the self is expressed through the mind. Of course, the self is not the mind, but it is expressed through the mind. Then we study that when we shall study what is consciousness and all the degrees of consciousness in the world of existence. So, though we are on the material world all around us, matter, yet we have our own material body. Likewise, though we are in the ocean of the mind, because the mind is everywhere, we have our own mind. We make our own mind, given to us by whom? Our material bodies are given to us by the Locusts and the Holy Archangels of the elements. Likewise, we are given our human mind. But this is something you will understand. Our human mind is not ourselves. We need it. As human beings, we need to have a material body which is sustained by the Holy Archangels of the elements. We need to have this so-called psychical body, the ethereal, the ethical body. We need to have it. But are we in need of it? We ourselves as spirit, soul, egos? No. As human beings, yes, but not as gods, as spirit, soul, egos. Because when we reach that state, that stage of existence, we are similar to all the other Lords of the elements. The mind emanates from us, from our spirit, soul, ego. Now, we shall see the two natures of a human being. The human, the personality in existence, in the world of existence, all the time under change, and our immortal nature as spirit, soul, ego being. So the seeker of the truth is studying, first of all, his human nature through that study to find in it his real self. Do we have two selves? Phenomenically, yes, but naturally, no. But we can find that self even in our present day personality. There we shall find our self and from there we shall enter in the self, to quote a quote, the self-realization. Now, returning back to the creation, we said that the beings passing through the locus selfhood, the word selfhood is common, as we have our material body, which is the across material body, and we have blood cells, atoms, molecules, everything in our body, so we have our self in what we call the locus selfhood. In the locus, we are little selves in it. That's why when Joseph Emmanuel the Christ feeling himself being the locus, a pure ray of the locus, was feeling that everybody around him was part of himself, and he gave it just in a parable. So, Joseph Emmanuel the Christ was feeling and as a human being, but most as the locus himself, feeling being inside everybody, in the self of every other feeling, being the common locus selfhood. That's what he was expressing so much compassion towards all human beings, because we are in himself. Now, this is rather difficult to understand, the difference between the self and the common selfhood. Likewise, I said, each archangel of any order, Michael, is feeling its individual archangelic self, yet he is one with the archangelic selfhood of his order. Not only that. And with the archangelic selfhood of all the other archangels. To understand it, we must understand the difference between being enslaved in the world of separateness and just being in the whole. That's very difficult to understand, indeed. And to understand it, you must, through introspection, through many years, maybe through many centuries, you'll find that your real self-spirit, soul-ego is one with the self-spirit-ego of every other one in the locus. You'll say, I, and you, I, and everybody, are one. You'll understand what is oneness, through what I would call the at-one-ment. These are stages of the consciousness on higher and higher, deeper or deeper levels, because we are not in place now or in space, we are in conditions. Now, we'll return again from where we started. The holy archangels, those divine beings, those gods, in God, passing through that prism, I call it, the real pleasure of the infinite beingness, to manifest itself in itself, because, manifest, they are also nature, becoming lords of the elements, lords of the mind, because all the elements are in the mind. So, they dress themselves with what I call light mind. The mind is light. Everywhere is the mind, everywhere is the nature of the infinite beingness, which is the light. Can we say that God is the light? The manifestation of God is the light, of course, but let us call God and all divine beings the light. That's not only the light, the nature of the infinite beingness, and the beings, the archangels, it's life. It's life. The light, definitely it is, but not the light emanating from the sun. The light, we call light, emanating from the sun and being reflected, giving us impressions, are only a very small frequency of vibrations of the ether mind. The mind ether. So, the light, something great. It is one of the natures of the absolute infinite beingness. The absolute infinite beingness. Now, in our symbol of life, you have those white semicircles. That's the mind manifested as super substance, as substance, and then as matter. We call them with the Aramaic names. That's the ayn, which is the light. Ayn-sof, light express, and ayn-sof-aur. Aur means the light. We are using the Aramaic words. Now, we cannot separate life from light. Somebody will say, what's love? But the expression of this light in comprehension and in understanding, in becoming one. Of course, this needs much attention, observation, in that state I call ecstasy and introspection. These are stages of the human consciousness. Now, we have said about the light, the archangels, the archangelic orders, how they express themselves passing through that prism, we call it the will pressure of the absolute beingness for manifestation. But, there are some other, we'll call them even beings, who do not want to pass through the El Shaddai or the Locos or through the Holy Spirit. And immediately, they cover themselves with their egoistic self-adoration, which creates in them darkness. These are the fallen ones. These are those who are responsible for the world of separateness. And they can only affect all those beings, I mean the human beings, who are in the world of separateness. They have been allowed by the El Shaddai or the Locos to be in the etheric counterpart of the planet, not on the material planet, because the material planet has been created and is sustained by the Holy Archangels of the elements. Which means they don't have the authority of materializing a self. No demon, no evil one can materialize. Can the Archangels materialize themselves on the cross of the material planet? If they want to, they can. And they do. Many times, Michael and Gabriel and Raphael and others have materialized themselves, even using the human form. It is their world of creation. But no evil one can materialize on the material plane. So, don't be afraid. Nobody will see materialized a demon. Now, we said that these demons, not passing through the El Shaddai or through the Holy Spirit, they have been tolerated by the Holy Archangels. But they have been rejected by the Holy Spirit. That's why they cannot materialize a form. And they have been deprived of the power of creating. Wrapping themselves in their egoistic tendency of believing that they are superior than Eloha or the Absolute Infinite Beingness. Does this feeling wrap them with veils of darkness? So, darkness does not exist except in the evil spirit. In themselves. And then, as we have the seven brilliances and colors of the mind of the Holy Archangels, we have now the seven frequencies of darkness. The seven intensities. How we call it? We have seven modes of darkness. So, all the so-called demons are not all so evil as the archdemons. Now, the archdemons who are covered with the seven layers of this darkness themselves are caught by the vibrations of their dark expression. These are the worst archdemons. Is it one? As you have billions of Archangels of the same order, you have thousands of human beings, I am telling you that there are thousands of Ash-Amote demons. But again, as the Archangels, one is all. And all are in the One. In the One, in nature. In expression, in evil tendencies. Now, can these demons, I have not mentioned the name of other demons, they are known by their vibrations, can they have entrance in the psychical world? No, never. That psychical world, all the 49 sub-planes, the seven planes of the psychical world are created by the Holy Archangels of the elements sustained by them in the same way they do it on the material plane. So, I tell you, on the cross-material plane, they don't have any entrance. You can never see materialized demons. But you have them moving about in the ethereal plane of our planet. As I said, the Holy Archangels tolerated them to be there. So, no entrance in the so-called psychical plane. The neurotic plane? No. The neurotic plane, again 49 sub-planes and seven planes, appreciates light. I am speaking of experience. No demon can enter there. But there is an unfortunate part. They can influence the individual minds of human beings. And can influence also with their shadow the human hearts. They have been allowed by the Archangels to do that. Though the Holy Archangels, Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel and the others are working in the material bodies of human beings, creating it, keeping it in good health, in good order. They have allowed these demons to influence the individual mind of the personality and its heart. In what way? When a human being co-vibrates to the same rate of their vibrations of darkness. In which way? In creating elementals. Being under his desires, his emotions. In the wrong way. The human being now is creating what we call elementals. I don't like to call them evil elementals. Let us call them bad elementals. Because if we call evil elementals created by human beings, then we must accept that a human being is a demon. And a human being is never a demon. He is an offspring of God. That's why I don't want to use the word evil. Bad elementals. So, creating the bad elementals a human being to serve his purpose in individuality in the world of existence is in attunement sometimes with the demons. So, when a man is called demon possessed, it's a wrong expression. No demon can enter a human body or a human being. But what we call demons in this point of view are the elementals. The bad elementals created by human beings just spoiling their mind substance being under the vibrations and the influence of these demons. The tempters. What we call temptation. And, of course, we find this lamentable state in the human beings while living in their material body. We find all these instances while a human being is living in his material body. They said, unfortunately, when a human being leaves his material body he's carrying with his personality his evil elementals, bad elementals, with him. So a human being is building up every moment every hour on the material plane elementals, good or bad composing that part of his personality we call the subconsciousness. So, our subconsciousness is the sum total of the personality. It is the sum total of these elementals. Good or bad. There is a fight between them. Who allows that fight? The man himself. His nature from his tendencies. His nature is good. His tendencies as a personality are not so good. So there is a fight in the personality of a human being. A fight between what we say good and evil. So, studying the nature of these elementals composing our subconsciousness this is the duty of every seeker of the truth to be on the alert. Can a man, after gaining his so-called self-consciousness create evil elementals? No, never. But when I say self-consciousness, I mean the self-realization of being the spirit, soul, ego. I don't mean that little self of the present-day personality of a man. I said before that I have double nature of a human being. The human and the divine. One, yet manifested in two ways. So, one of the most serious tasks of a seeker of the truth is just to concentrate start using in the right way the mind in building up elementals and studying the elementals he had already created. What is the nature of these elementals? Even Joshua Manuel Christ had described them in the Gospels. Using the language of that time he was using the word evil. And even the word evil spirits they didn't have any other words to use. It says that when an evil spirit leaves a human being is projected by a human being that means when a human being by his desires, emotions and the way of life is creating an elemental is passing out. From where? From his personal self now and of course from his material body. From the place just at the root of the nose between the eyes. A clairvoyant can see it. Good or evil elemental he can see it. Not bigger than the head of a pin. But it's not a matter of size it's a matter of quality. Because a seed of an eucalyptus tree is not bigger than the head of a pin yet you need it's only possibility of the creation of that kind of life. Likewise. And when it gets out it gets natural sizes. It goes around. They say in waterless space it means part of the ethereal world around. But it has to come back. It returns back home. Blessings and curses come home to us says an English proverb it's very true in it. Coming back it carries with it says Joshua seven such evil spirits worse than itself. Seven. How is that? That one becomes seven. Coming it enters through the seven centers. Contaminating all the centers. So becoming seven. Entering in the etheric double of a human being. So the seekers of the truth are seeking and finding the seed of their subconsciousness in the etheric double of their material body. So the etheric double of our material body is twofold. Our own connecting us with our psychical body and ethical body contaminated a very bad smelling dirty muddy place and that part of our subconsciousness in our etheric double which is the divine power the etheric vitality pure good to be used by the holy archangels in building up the body in sustaining the body. It's much much work done on the etheric double of our material body. Now, from where do people, individuals get that vitality that kind of mind, substance with which they will create those bad elementals? Of course from the storehouse of the etheric vitality the Shekinah is giving us every day. So we should be very careful in how we are using that etheric vitality granted to us every day by the Father to His offspring the human beings our daily bread which is the etheric vitality. So the seeker of the truth, man or a woman first of all must know realize the existence of the etheric double as the mould in which and by which through the holy archangels the material body is built, sustained and is living and also look in it these two sides of existence the existence of the personal self and the beingness of the divine self with soul, spirit all believe that they have a soul Do you have a soul? Do you believe you have a soul? Of course, I have put that question to certain theologians in London I said, no, you don't have any soul They are wondering how you are a doctor of divinity and you deny having a soul I said, definitely I deny having a soul I said, I am the soul and I have a body You put it in the wrong way Try to realize that you are the soul and not you have a soul Who has a soul? You are petty sinful personality That is the wrong way of expression We are the soul We are the parts of life not our bodies Our heart is just an organ The parts of life the parts in the heart is not the heart because it might stop working It is there, perfect in quality We are the life not the way we are living each one of us as a personality man or a woman I said yesterday, what we have in common is our divine nature being their life, being the self we are living How we are living now? We are all living in the same way breathing, receiving the etheric vitality and living by the mercy of God But how are we living? You never find two people living the same way And what is the way of living now? We don't see what is life ourself That we know, it is under the domain of the Holy Spirit and of the locus, the satain But the way we are living is under our own orders not attuned to our inner divine nature What is now the way we are living? I said yesterday, never you will find two persons male or female, being the same in character, in the way of behaving in the way of feeling in the way of living Why they are not the same? Because we said that the present day personality of a human being is the sum total of the elementals good or bad composing that personality They said definitely that personality of us is not ourself as it is expressed as the way of living but it is ourselves living, giving the life to it So we must start now starting our two natures the human being under the influence influences or circumstances of the temptations of this life let us put it in this way the impressions which create in us after conceiving and seeing things in us, those vibrations we call desires, emotions feelings Are the feelings and the desires and the emotions of all people the same? No, they are according to the sum total of the elementals in them good or evil So by concentrating and studying the nature of our desires and of our emotions we can know the nature of our subconsciousness we can study what we call our present day personality Who is doing that? The personal self? Or the ego-spirit-soul-self? But we said that the self is one So when we start concentrating using now the mind in the proper way not enslaving the mind to contaminate it and make it desires, unbridled desires and emotions then we find Thank you