Daskalos-May-25-1992-B-Heaven-or-Hell Some people, during the night, when they are outside of their bodies, they wake up. And when they come back, they recall in the morning that they have seen a very beautiful dream. Most of you have that experience. But, after all, it's a dream. No, it's not a dream. It's an experience in the psychical world. They are not dreams. They are experiences. Somebody will say, yes, of course, but, I have seen a very bad nightmare, seen stupid things, which are not real, and all that. Everything is good and real. The way you imprint it in your self-consciousness in the morning is wrong. And I give an example. If your material brains are a camera, and you see a landscape, and you get it, without turning it, which is the means of time. Time is different in the various worlds. Without turning it, you get another landscape, and then another landscape, and then another landscape. When you develop it, what do you see? Nothing. All mixed up. I'm telling you, everything is in its place. What is wrong is the way you brought it in your so-called waking consciousness in the morning. But there are ways, and training, and exercises, which when you do, you know how to live properly in the psychical world. Then you find out that you live in the same way you are living in this world. No confused images or impressions, but everything is in its right place. So it's also the so-called nautical world. And I'm telling you, intelligent beings all through these ages and now are studying all these worlds, which are worlds of different dimensions. So the world of existence, and the world of life on it, is not only the one third of the surface of the planet, but there are other worlds, many worlds. Jesus Christ said to his disciples, in the house of my Father, there are many, many mansions. I go to prepare a place for you. Now we start to study, what is place? What is space? So there are many, many things we have to study and know what they are. So, I come again back. Studying things in the cross-material world, in the form of science, any kind of science is good, but not enough. We have to introspection to study ourselves, as a personality, how this personality is composed, of what it is composed, this personality. And then, study the conditions in life we are living, know things, so that we should set free ourselves from the illusions of what the material world is giving us. Jesus Christ said, know the truth and the truth will set you free from the illusions. So, this I call introspection. Introspection to study what? In the material world and our nature, our material body as human beings. To study the psychical, the noetical, the noetic world, all these worlds, and study ourselves as our etheric double to know it and handle it and use it, the same way we are using our hands. To study the psychical world, to live in them self-consciously, that means to raise our consciousness let us call it waking consciousness, to what we call self-consciousness. Self-consciousness, now, knowing what we are as human beings. I said, a name, a form, our emotions and our thoughts, so we have solid ground to work on. And then, find what? Becoming masters of the mind, masters of our etheric double, masters of our so-called psychical body, controlling desires, emotions, and cleaning that bad-smelling, muddy pool, which you call sub-consciousness of the personality, and then, start using the mind now, as a reason, not enslaving it to desires, but just using it. So, being able now to live self-consciously in the other worlds, in so doing, we know what's life. We know who we are. You say, don't we know who we are now? I'm telling you, no. You don't know. You make the mistake to think that the personality's egoism of yours is yourself, which is not. But after meditating, knowing, and through introspection, you reach to your decision, which means becoming masters of these desires, becoming masters of these emotions, cleaning what I said is sub-consciousness, becoming masters of the mind, you put to your equation, who am I then? I am not the material body. I'm using it. It's mine. Though I know very little about the material body, unless I open a book on anatomy. I am not my emotions, since by now I have succeeded to check them, to find out what they are, and how they are influencing me, and having now the right to control them, replace them, change them. Therefore, I am not my emotions, since I can control them. Are my thoughts, my thoughts I was doing until now, the great mistake, to enslave the mind to the service of the thoughts. But now, I can control my thoughts. I can think what I want, and I can change things. So I am not the thoughts either. So I am not the material body. I am not the emotional nature of mind. I am not the thoughts. What am I? Then you find yourself. You will get the reply from within. I am I, that I with capital letters. You found that you are the soul self, ego, and not what you are expressing in time and place, most awkwardly, as your personality, egoism, leading you to unhappiness and dissatisfaction. Now you know who you are. You become the master of the seven heavens, and the kingdom of the heavens, Joshua the Christ said, is in us. In our own nature as gods. Then you find who you are. You will put the question, becoming a god? You will never become something you are not. We are gods all the time. But now we realize it by uncovering that self of ours from the shadow of death and influences and delusions of time and place, of the material world, of the emotional world, and the nautical world. And how can we know? By starting meditating and making what we call the introspection, looking within. Be sure that we are on the same way. Because most people, even scientists, all the time have that thought of doubting. Am I on the right way? Is that what I am doing right? How should we be sure that we are on the safe and right way? Because I have not come to religion now again, to say what Joshua the Christ said, I am the way, the truth and life. So the way is truth and life. How to find out what is truth and life? Now how shall we find out that we are on the right way of meditating? Using introspection. Because by so doing, it's a long training though. You have to manifest certain abilities. You raise your so-called consciousness, let us call it waking consciousness, while it is three-fourth subconsciousness, to what we call self-consciousness now, from simply consciousness. Now you start studying your personality, knowing it. You are on the first step of the self- consciousness and you find out what? The inner nature of my personality is my self-god, a god. My expression is the egoistic expression of my personality. They find out that I am the sum total of the elementals, which are composing my personality. And with these elementals I have built up my shell hell or my shell paradise, which is classifying me in certain sub-plane of the psychical world. As I said in a lesson, nobody is keeping records. There is not a judgment day. The judgment day is every moment. There are not any archangels or angels. They are loving, curing wounds, joining bonds, putting down your faults and coming as accusers. This is wrong. But Christ said, whatever one sows, so he shall reap. It's a law. In the nature of the infinite beingness, it is a law in an inner, real self. Somebody, yes, is recording, but that's you, who is recording what you are doing. So we are recording. Where? In the mind, in the sub-consciousness. So the recording is every moment. You think, you desire, and you act. You are recording everything. And according to what you are recording, what you are sowing, so you shall reap. So, in passing over, closing your eyes, leaving the material body, and leaving the material body to die, to dissolve, to decay, you never find out in any paradise or in any hell. You are not now. Who is blessing you there? Just your vibrations? Are blessing you the right vibrations of the psychical plane? You enter naturally in your hell or in your paradise. What can we do to save ourselves from these hells? And how are these hells? I said that the psychical plane is splendid, lovely, everything, but one going there, finds himself in a sub-plane of that splendid world, yet enclosing himself in his shell, hell or shell paradise, creating with his sub-consciousness he is carrying, a world of his own. So, he doesn't see outside. He sees what he has created for him, with his desires, passions, weaknesses, and way of living. So, is that shell, hell, everlasting, eternal, as even the orthodox religion of the Christians is teaching? No! Because that is an insult to God. To God who is most merciful, cannot create a human being to live less than a hundred years sometimes, very certain to go beyond that, and cast him to everlasting hell. That's a blasphemy. Don't accept it. Each one finds himself in his, which he has created, shell, hell. How he will come out of it? Is anybody forcing him to stay there? No! Anyone can get out of his or her shell, hell, if one wants that great joy to the angels in heaven, as Joshua the Christ says, for one who returns back home to his own nature, whether he is living on the material plane or in the other planes. So, there is no judgment day. In the sense they are presenting it, no. But the judgment day is every moment. The hot one is judging himself in the way he is going to live. Now, I'll tell you an example which I know. Many invisible helpers, who can live self-consciously in all the world, would try just to wake up people living their shell hells. When I was a child, there was a neighbor in our locality, very quiet some fellow. This woman, getting up in the morning, would open the windows and start quarreling with everybody, trying to find causes to shout and shout, and insult and say many, many things. She was under this great form of attacking, insulting and all that. To that extent, these elementals she was creating were enslaving her personality. And everybody in the locality was afraid of her. Of course, I was hearing this woman. I met her the other day. I'm 78. I was hardly eight at that time. Seventy years. For her, yesterday or before yesterday, losing the sense of time in the psychical world, it's a world of different dimensions, finding her, opening that half-broken window, because the place she was living in had been demolished, and a huge building is there. Yet she's seen that in her shell hell. The whole environment, she knew it. Opening the window and shouting and shouting. Of course, I wouldn't present myself as I am now. I presented myself as I was there, not to make her scared. I told her, look around you. Stop shouting. Stop insulting that neighbor of yours. Her neighbor, who was a young lady, and she sees her as a young lady. She's living in the world of her elementals. Became a grandmother with grandchildren, and she passed over, not being influenced by her anymore. But she was fighting with an elemental she created of that young woman then. I told her, look here. Instead of shouting and shouting and shouting, don't you think it's better to leave this place? We'll take you to another place. I will give you a better place. And you go there. Yes, I will think it over, but let me now just show her what I want. Start shouting again. She will remain in that condition for many, many earthly years yet. I'm telling you, nobody forces anybody to stay in his or her shell-hell. Anybody can come out if he wants to come out. But who really wants to come out, since their shell-hells for them are their paradise, giving them painful satisfaction, insulting someone, yes, of course, I will show her, and all that. Do you understand what I mean? So we have now, from now, to start demolishing that shell-hell of ours, so that we will not find ourselves when passing over in such a fearful place we create. And now, for the invisible helpers, no one can help another one unless by compassion, which means showing a better state of condition, and you have to cure. Yet, at least 80% of the people will not make the change. Will you leave me in my little home? Oh, that big one, I don't want it. I want to live here because I love it. So it is very difficult to take from a shell-hell someone considering his or her shell-hell as their paradise. Of course, this one will learn when one will live self-consciously there as an invisible helper. So, what is the way for everybody, not only living in the material world, even in the psychical world and in the ethical world? Because you have to help people not only living in the material world, in the other worlds also. What is it? The way. What was the mission of Joshua the Christ coming to the world? Teaching. A thousand times I said that the best friend of every human being, a Christian, should be the New Testament. There is the whole truth in it, and the way, and the truth, and life. What is it? To study their personality. Sincerely to classify things as good or bad. I say I don't like to use the word evil. And then decide to make corrections. After all, for his or her own benefit. As present the conditions are, a human being is unhappy. One is not satisfied. So, in starting through introspection, the right way of meditation, by observation and sincerity with the real self, starting as the present day personality self, Mary or George, study seriously conditions in life, the way they are living, and the way the nature around them is influencing them. To study the nature of desire. Analyze desire. Every desire coming to them is like, no, no, no. Now I have to study it. What can this desire offer me? To what extent that desire is becoming my master? Am I the master of this desire or that desire is enslaving me to it? So, one of the greatest things one should learn is the elementals. How they are created. The nature of the elementals. And, the most important, how we can dis-energize the elementals and get rid of their influence. Which means, demolish that shell of ours to see the light and start from the beginning with the same material. Which means the mind, now a sober thinking, built up our paradise. Because it is with the same material that you are building a prison or a palace. Earth, water, wood, iron, cement, and many, many things with the same material you are building. Either a prison to imprison yourself in it, as I said, a shell hell, or you can build your palace to live in it. So, it is up to us. The materials are given freely by God. And we are responsible how we are using this material. Which is the mind, as pure thought, the mind as pure emotions, love. Everything is good if we know and make good use of everything. So, this is our way. And I said, we are on the same way because by so doing we develop in us certain qualities of our self. The self-consciousness, the self-superconsciousness, the exosomatosis, on the material plane. Yes. You learn by the Holy Archangels and you yourself, what is matter, becoming master of matter, you can materialize and dematerialize things. You can transmute things, matter to another kind of matter. Then you are on the same way, that yes, you are becoming master of matter. But to become master of matter outside, you should become first master of matter in your material body. Not to be the slave of the material body, but to be the master of the material body. So, is that way easy? At the beginning, no. But when you start, you develop in your personality a new quality which means habit, which is one of the expressions of the self-consciousness. You have to learn. And by this, which you call habit, things are made easier and easier. But you have to start. What is needed is sincerity with yourself and patience. Yes. Now we will make an exercise. Concentrate in your material body, from the toes to the head. Relax completely every muscle. Feel you are in your body. It's yours. It's granted to you by the holy archangels of the elements creating it. Feel you are in the feet. From the abdomen to the toes. Feel your feet. We said relaxed. Not tense muscles. Simply feel them. Now feel the abdomen, the chest, the hands, the head. Feel you are in the whole material body. Who are you who are able now to feel and live? Live means feeling in that material body. Which other intelligences, higher intelligences are constructing, building and keeping it in good order. Now, you, feeling the whole material body, being in the material body, you are a personality. Just recompose your personality now. As you are feeling desires, wishes, way of thinking, that's your personality. That's you. That entity now concentrating in the body and feeling the body. That's you. You have to study this personality of yours. The way you are feeling, your desires, your emotions, the reactions by that way of feeling. Now we enter in your subconsciousness. You join in his subconsciousness. What are the reactions of the impressions you get through the five senses in that personality of yours? What are these impressions causing your personality? Satisfaction? Dissatisfaction? Anger? Peace? Indifference? You have to get the habit of whatever comes to your attention through the five senses to check it. Start knowing its nature and what that can be to you. Now all impressions coming to us to our present personality can be classified into classes. The pleasure-giving impressions and experiences and the painful pain-giving experiences. Why? Why giving pleasure and or why giving pain? By so doing you will find out the quality of your personality. And again these two classes you are classifying the impressions are painful less or more painful much more painful desperately painful and so on. You cannot classify things to their right place. Pleasure. Yes, it gives a little pleasure more pleasure, much more pleasure it gives a great pleasure and so on. We classify it. Now by classifying things, the one side or the other we'll put over them a why. Just to find the influence of these experiences giving you. Have to find the degree of influence. Why this thing today is giving me pain and it didn't give me pain yesterday and maybe tomorrow it will give me pleasure. Why things that gave me pleasure in the past and satisfaction making me more energetic now are indifferent to me. Why? So there must be a burning why in front of you which requires an answer. You have to answer to yourself so that you'll know the reality. What is pain and what is pleasure? Both are illusions. And what is the reality? To find out who you are. Not to find out how you are influenced how you are vibrating according to the experiences. To find your God selfhood ego of yours its nature and tranquility. Yes, in reality what am I? Forget who you are because what you are is spirit, soul, ego, self. No male, no female. Who am I? Living now this moment in this material body of mine feeling it concentrating in it and how can I be able, in the same way I'm feeling in my material body develop my self-consciousness to feel consciously in my other bodies in my so-called psychic body neurotic body How can I control and master emotions and desires and influences given me through the five senses? How can I master and become the master of the mind? This is the way for everyone educated or non-educated to find the truth who he or she is and what he or she is and in the meantime live the life the absolute infinite intelligence decided to place him or place her now to get the lessons in life become tolerant patient Now, one of the skills we have to develop and gain is the use of the mind in visualization for making what we have seen what had happened to us is stored subconsciously in our so-called subconsciousness and we can bring it to the surface as a memory anytime we like we practice and get the skill by introspection but now bring to the surface of your consciousness a person with that person you had difficult moments maybe hating him or hating her or hating you that person both of you are human beings under the same force under the same experiences bring that person in front of you it's not difficult by visualizing this fellow don't bring it angry see that person happy and smiling breathe deeply and make your heart radiate a rosy light making your heart a rosy sun and the sun is radiating sending its rays everywhere see that face having that light of your heart enjoying that light of your heart that rosy light of your heart and smiling and mentally tell that fellow man or a woman that you love him or love her never mind how difficult moments you had with that person all that is human in reality the inner self of her or of him is God as you you apply to that God now not to the personality see that fellow happy smiling to you sending love to that person this doesn't mean that you'll continue conduct and start again quarreling because you are not better than what you were that person is not better than what he was it's human but now work from a higher level send your love to that person in this way balancing your accounts if you don't want that person to come in your way again or if you want that person to come in your way on much better terms now human beings are in need not of our love not of our complaints and hatred because complaints and hatred are very strong poisons poisoning even our material bodies yes, enough tomorrow all of you who will be here will deal with this subject of elementals enough ok