

02	-	Labyrinth
Now,	we	have	two	ways,	nature	and	ourself.	What	is	a	human	being	now?	We	are	human
beings.	But	what	is	a	human	being?	They	said,	studying	a	man	or	a	woman,	the	life	in
their	bodies,	we	know	what	is	a	woman	or	a	man	in	their	bodies,	in	their	material	bodies.
But	what	about	the	character?	Can	you	know	all	male	or	all	female	persons	by	studying
Mary	or	George?	No.	Now,	we	have	to	study	what	is	the	self	in	a	personality.	You	have	to
study	now	this	kind	of	self-colored,	not	bright	color,	but	colored.
Study	them.	And	start	to	separate	what	is	common	and	what	is	personal.	Now,	this	is
interesting	us	now.
We	leave	nature	around	us	for	the	time	being,	though	a	seeker	of	the	truth	is	doing	both.
By	observation,	studying	and	using	the	mind,	he	is	studying	everything	taking	place
around	him.	Because	unless	he	will	do	that	on	the	material	plane,	he	will	not	just	have
that	tendency	of	observing	things	in	the	other	planes.
Don't	think	by	studying	a	book	or	yoga.	Just	knowing	that	there	are	centers	on	the
material	body,	or	rather	on	the	etheric	double	of	the	material	body,	called	chakras.	We
call	them	centers	of	energy.
And	opening	them	and	this	and	that,	you	will	be	self-conscious	in	the	psychical	plane.
Nothing	more	misleading	and	stupid.	Because	I	have	seen	many,	many	people,	who
happen	to	get	a	book	on	yoga	from	this,	trying,	as	they	say,	to	wake	up	their	chakras,
who	became	neurasthenic.
We	are	getting	many,	many	letters	for	the	day.	Oh,	it	has	opened	the	Kundalini	or	that
and	that	and	that	and	that.	And	what	I	see	is	forms	of	schizophrenia.
These	things	lead	to	schizophrenia	and	neurasthenia.	Not	that	these	centers	do	not
exist.	They	do	exist.
But	it	is	under	the	authority	of	the	holy	archangels	of	the	creation,	doing	the	whole	work.
And	the	seeker	of	the	truth	should	be	serious	to	observe	this	creative	work	in	their
bodies,	and	then	understand	and	cooperate	with	them.	And	not	just	try	to	violate	the
laws	of	nature.
So,	it	is	by	observation,	introspection,	and	using	the	mind	in	the	proper	way,	that	you
can	 find	 yourself	 self-conscious	 in	 the	 psychical	 plane.	 And	 make	 what	 we	 call
exosomatosis.	Exosomatosis	means	knowing,	having	the	self-consciousness	independent
from	the	material	body.
And	not	by	other	means,	which	are	leading,	I	said,	to	neurasthenia.	So,	these	are	the
means	we	will	be	using.	Our	divine	nature	of	observation.

And	learning	how	to	use	the	super	substance	of	the	mind,	the	greatest	gift	given	to
human	beings,	by	the	father,	God,	so	that	we	just	see	the	truth.	And	proceed	now	with
reverence.	Because	nature,	even	the	material	plane,	for	a	true	seeker	of	the	truth,	is	a
church,	a	temple	of	God.
And	should	live,	just	in	a	serious	way,	of	studying	and	understanding	the	ways	of	the
absolute	infinite	beingness,	if	God	is	tempting	some,	the	creators,	and	the	creator.	So,
what	is	the	duty	of	every	reasonable	human	being?	And	what	human	beings	calling
themselves	intelligent	and	reasonable	today	are	doing?	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ	spoke
about	all	these	things.	He	said,	what	is	the	nature	of	a	human	being	now?	As	a	man	or	a
woman?	Being	born,	growing,	growing,	growing,	and	what?	In	growing,	as	a	man	or	a
woman,	in	their	environment,	in	their	family,	in	their	home,	in	their	society,	are	to	do,	to
increase	within	them,	does	that	feeling	of	possessiveness,	catching,	getting,	and	calling
that	and	that	thing,	their	own?	Now	by	observation	we	will	find	out,	what	creates	this
feeling	of	ownership,	and	enslaving	the	mind,	in	this,	I'll	call	it	tendency,	not	to	say
desire,	because	you	must	understand	the	difference	between	these	two	words.
In	this	way	we	start	to	study	the	character	of	the	human	beings,	not	only	one,	all	of
them,	because	all	of	them	are	under	the	same	influences,	under	the	same	impressions,
living	today.	So	we	have	just	to	say,	what	is	desire?	What	is	the	human	body?	We	have
to	study	the	human	body,	by	studying	the	human	body,	and	the	total	wisdom	of	the	Holy
Archangels	of	Christ	working	in	our	material	body.	Just	study,	this	thing,	seeing	a	book
on	anatomy,	what	we	find	out?	That	we	are	not	the	human	body,	because	the	human
body	of	any	human	being,	man	or	a	woman,	is	the	same	always,	the	same	is	the	body	of
a	woman,	with	the	bodies	of	every	other	woman.
It	is	the	same	the	body	of	a	man,	with	the	bodies	of	every	other	man.	That	it	is	shorter,
taller,	that	there	is	no	difference.	You	know	what	is	a	male	person?	You	know	what	is	a
female	person?	This	is	the	common	thing	in	human	beings.
But	now,	we	are	coming	to	another	branch	of	study.	I	don't	say	that	we	will	leave	that
behind,	not	study	it,	the	same	way	we	are	studying	what	is	going	on	in	nature	all	around
us.	That	our	nature,	divine	nature	of	observation,	we	should	use	it	any	moment.
To	use	it,	in	what	we	call	waking	consciousness.	Now,	and	just	get	the	habit	of	using	it
during	the	time	your	present	personality	is	sleeping,	going	to	the	other	dimensions.	So,
what	is	now	desire?	And	what	is	this	desire	doing?	Is	desire	always	a	sin?	A	necessity?
How	just	to	study	it?	Should	not	just	jump	from	impression	to	impression	and	reach	to
wrong	conclusions.
Have	to	study	the	nature	of	desire.	What	it	is?	It	is	our	so-called	psychical	body.	That	we
find	our	psychical	body.
And	what	we	find?	That	we	were	using	this	psychical	body	all	the	time	subconsciously

without	knowing	its	existence.	But	using	it.	And	being	under	its	influence.
So,	we	have	to	wake	up.	Know	who	we	are	and	get	control	of	this	psychical	body.	But
you	cannot	do	that	unless	you	have	mastered	already	the	physical	body.
Studying	what	is	the	physical	body?	Who	am	I?	And	what	I	am	in	that	material	body
using	it?	So,	I	shall	study	the	nature	of	other	bodies.	Of	the	psychical	body.	So,	I	have
just	step	by	step	using	the	observation	and	the	reasonable	thinking	as	meditation	to
know	as	much	as	I	can	know	of	the	relative	truth	concerning	the	matter	I	am	studying.
So,	seeker	of	the	truth	should	study	what	is	desire.	You	say,	what	is	desire	now?	I	am
telling	you.	Both	an	angel	and	a	devil.
And	who	is	making	that	angel	a	devil?	You.	By	becoming	a	devil	you	make	it	a	devil.	But
being	or	becoming	an	angel	it's	an	angel.
So,	the	desire	is	a	mirror	in	which	you	reflect	your	own	self.	But	now	we	come	to	another
confusing	point.	Which	self?	But	is	that	image	I	see	this	mirror	of	desire	really	my	self?
Because	we	will	not	extend	on	this	matter	now.
I	say	by	studying	I	find	that	similar	to	this	kind	of	expression	of	a	personality	I	call	desire
I	see	that	combined	to	it	is	the	way	of	thinking.	And	you	find	out	that	you	have	been
misusing	subconsciously	this	divine	gift	of	the	mind	as	thought	and	slaving	it	to	the
desires.	That's	making	the	desire	a	devil.
Under	the	reasonable	thinking	of	a	reasonable	being	it's	a	blessing	it's	a	necessity	and
not	a	curse.	Then	I	find	out	that	apart	from	what	I	call	desire	now	studying	the	psychical
body	which	has	its	form	because	everything	to	exist	must	have	a	form.	I	see	that	I	find
myself	in	another	body.
What	do	you	call	it?	The	nautical	body.	The	mind	body.	I	can't	just	use	the	word	mind
body	because	in	mind	body	I	have	also	the	nautical	not	only	the	nautical	body	the	higher
mental	as	some	people	call	it.
So	we	have	just	to	study	its	nature	and	what	it	is.	What	is	the	mind?	Not	now	the	mind	as
the	super	substance	but	as	I	made	it	part	of	myself	my	mind.	I	got	a	drop	of	this	mind
from	 the	 ocean	 of	 the	 mind	 they	 have	 colored	 it	 now	 in	 hot	 way	 of	 my	 present
personality	my	weaknesses	my	vices	my	virtues	many	many	things	so	now	myself	using
again	observation	and	the	right	thinking	by	coloring	the	mind	and	seeing	what	is	behind
the	mind	as	my	desire	what	do	I	find?	My	own	personality	now	here	is	the	critical	point
my	own	personality	but	who	is	doing	it	and	what	is	that	my	present	day	personality	as
mind	and	emotion	then	you	separate	yourself	from	that	I	was	making	the	mistake	to
think	that	that	kind	of	personality	the	sinful	personality	the	transgressing	personality	is
not	the	reality	myself	I	am	something	else	then	you	feel	dual	while	you	are	one	you
make	the	mistake	that	you	are	so	called	equism	of	the	personality	is	yourself	but	it	is	not

yourself	now	you	are	reasoning	now	we	give	exercises	which	make	you	by	introspection
observation	and	meditation	to	separate	this	petty	call	it	selfhood	which	is	the	present
day	personality	sequence	from	your	real	self	your	real	majestic	divine	self	which	is	God
you	not	God	in	you	but	you	then	it	is	the	time	to	understand	who	you	are	as	a	soul	self
now	studying	the	personality	you	can	study	you	are	petty	self	as	a	man	or	as	a	woman	in
the	phenomenon	of	life	but	now	reaching	this	point	finding	your	soul	self	there	is	no	sex
there	 when	 they	 have	 asked	 Christ	 once	 who	 are	 you	 he	 didn't	 say	 I	 am	 Joshua
Emmanuel	I	am	a	human	being	he	had	shown	how	you	should	think	he	said	to	the	Jews
in	Aramaic	I	am	what	I	am	and	in	Greek	because	he	was	speaking	the	Greek	language
being	in	a	sin	himself	the	mother	language	of	Christ	Joshua	the	Christ	was	Greek	and
Aramaic	I	am	what	I	am	he	was	speaking	as	the	soul	and	the	soul	of	a	male	or	a	female
person	has	no	sex	but	it's	an	archangel	it	is	that	kind	of	self	we	should	find	as	being
ourselves	that	self	disentangling	our	real	self	from	the	image	we	see	in	the	mirror	of
emotion	and	of	thought	and	what	is	God	doing	to	us	every	few	years	we	see	as	our	self	a
distorted	image	of	our	self	in	the	three-fold	mirror	of	matter	emotion	and	thought	you
look	at	it	now	you	have	to	clean	that	mirror	to	see	yourself	you	see	it	much	distorted	you
see	it	now	like	a	monster	looking	there	you	make	the	mistake	to	see	I	am	that	the
desires	the	weaknesses	the	emotions	the	thoughts	on	this	or	that	matter	like	that	God	is
breaking	 those	 three-fold	 mirror	 every	 few	 years	 is	 God	 evil	 or	 most	 merciful	 most
merciful	to	make	us	sleep	see	better	and	clearer	and	then	giving	us	another	mirror	and
another	mirror	another	mirror	to	make	it	more	clean	we	have	to	make	it	clean	to	see
ourselves	reflected	in	it	properly	that	means	incarnation	so	what	is	the	real	gain	of	a
seeker	of	the	truth	man	or	a	woman	to	find	the	real	self	to	find	the	self	reflected	on	the
mirror	and	not	make	the	mistake	that	the	image	in	the	mirror	is	the	self	and	one	of	the
aims	of	the	seeker	of	the	truth	is	just	to	annihilate	his	personal	egoism	because	unless
the	personal	egoism	is	exterminated	annihilated	the	real	self	the	son	of	the	real	self	will
not	arise	and	you	will	make	the	mistake	that	you	are	your	desires	your	thoughts	your
emotions	when	I	gave	this	lesson	before	some	years	to	the	inner	circle	a	fellow	who	is	a
poet	 told	 me	 you	 know	 you	 have	 destroyed	 everything	 good	 in	 me	 I	 said	 why	 you
deprived	me	of	my	emotions	and	of	my	thoughts	what	remains	to	me	I	said	your	own	self
remains	 to	 you	 just	 find	 that	 self	 and	 you	 will	 understand	 that	 you	 are	 not	 losing
anything	 you	 are	 gaining	 everything	 because	 you	 think	 what	 you	 are	 gaining	 just
because	you	the	self	as	the	sun	shine	there	and	you	know	you	get	notice	of	what	you
see	be	the	sun	yourself	and	you	can	have	everything	know	what	is	the	kingdom	of	the
heavens	which	is	in	us	he	described	them	and	what	did	he	say	seek	search	the	kingdom
of	the	heavens	and	you	are	losing	everything	did	he	say	that	no	seek	the	kingdom	of	the
heaven	and	everything	you	are	losing	everything	is	yours	it's	a	great	mistake	to	think
that	reaching	that	stage	it	means	throwing	away	everything	it	is	just	clear	that	you	have
different	now	things	to	love	higher	things	to	love	that's	true	and	things	that	now	are
interesting	you	will	not	mean	much	to	you	but	reaching	that	everything	is	yours	seek	the
kingdom	of	the	heavens	and	everything	will	be	added	to	you	everything	and	you	have	to
select	suppose	you	are	a	child	a	boy	and	you	have	marbles	playing	and	playing	and

collecting	and	collecting	stamps	and	getting	stamps	and	you	make	a	nice	book	with
collection	of	stamps	and	you	grow	up	you	don't	need	anymore	collecting	stamps	now
you	are	collecting	money	banknotes	pieces	of	paper	which	are	called	money	for	me	it's
not	much	a	difference	but	there	is	a	difference	for	the	people	collecting	stamps	and	now
collecting	money	but	as	one	David	 fellow	now	collecting	money	and	banknotes	 and
everything	those	stamps	mean	nothing	to	him	believe	me	someday	when	you	have	the
heavenly	things	all	these	things	on	the	material	plane	will	mean	nothing	to	you	so	you
are	not	losing	anything	you	are	gaining	everything	well	am	I	losing	all	this	who	is	just
depriving	a	millionaire	to	get	again	the	book	of	his	stamps	and	enjoy	his	stamps	if	he
wishes	to	nobody	so	no	need	just	to	throw	away	things	you	can	have	everything	what
you	are	losing	the	fascination	of	things	and	what	the	Lord	Buddha	Bodhisattva	Buddha
was	teaching	disentangling	yourself	from	the	illusions	but	do	now	Buddhists	know	the
truth	that	this	great	Lord	and	Master	had	taught	the	world	disattachment	I	don't	believe
that	all	of	them	know	it	as	all	Christians	most	of	the	Christians	have	lost	the	sense	and
the	truth	in	Christianity	so	the	Buddhists	have	lost	most	of	them	the	real	teaching	and
sense	of	Buddha	because	if	you	know	the	truth	behind	the	teachings	of	both	the	Lord
Buddha	the	enlightened	one	and	Joshua	the	Christ	the	God	man	it's	the	same	thing	the
same	truth	revealed	a	fellow	Buddhist	one	day	taught	me	oh	pity	you	are	not	a	Buddhist
sir	and	you	are	a	Christian	I	said	who	told	you	I	am	not	a	Buddhist	he	said	are	you	a
Buddhist	I	said	definitely	I	am	maybe	better	Buddhist	than	you	are	looking	at	but	are	you
not	a	Christian	of	course	I	am	a	Christian	but	now	I	don't	see	any	difference	in	the	truth
truth	is	not	the	monopoly	of	certain	people	coloring	it	according	to	their	ideas	so	the
seeker	of	the	truth	should	see	the	truth	as	it	is	what	is	the	truth	God	is	love	just	under
this	 light	 you	 can	 see	 clearer	 everything	 when	 the	 sun	 of	 love	 rises	 you	 can	 see
everything	nicely	if	there	is	darkness	and	you	go	with	a	candle	in	your	hand	colored
candle	you	will	see	things	in	a	different	way	in	your	own	way	so	wisdom	comes	to	a
human	being	every	human	being	if	he	or	she	wishes	to	see	the	truth	by	observation
making	reasonable	use	of	the	mind	concentrating	on	the	things	one	wants	to	study	but
freeing	himself	at	that	time	from	all	illusions	and	attachments	on	things	influencing	him
or	influencing	her	that	means	taking	away	the	personal	egos	what	do	I	call	this	work	the
system	of	the	seekers	of	the	truth	the	science	of	sciences	because	the	highest	science	is
to	know	the	self	the	expression	of	the	self	the	local	self	and	our	place	in	that	kind	of
selfhood	and	just	clean	it	now	somebody	says	shall	we	give	up	our	so	called	personal	self
the	egoism	I	said	no	annihilate	its	expression	because	in	it	to	exist	as	egoism	in	a	person
as	part	of	it	has	your	self	you	are	that	and	you	are	not	what	you	are	not	take	it	away	and
live	what	you	are	now	it's	difficult	to	understand	that	before	exercising	separating	the
real	self	its	nature	from	its	expression	tomorrow	the	lesson	will	be	more	on	the	use	of
the	mind	now	we	will	make	an	exercise	relax	completely	your	material	body	relaxing	it
shows	that	you	are	a	god	and	that	material	body	of	yours	given	to	you	feeling	you	are
living	in	it	is	yours	now	make	it	yours	the	holy	archangels	creating	this	material	body	and
everything	most	wisely	in	the	material	body	will	not	object	calling	it	yours	but	deserve	to
be	the	master	of	this	material	body	feel	that	you	are	in	the	material	body	relaxing	it

completely	absolute	relaxation	you	are	breathing	now	breathing	deeply	but	comfortably
you	 can	 select	 the	 rhythm	 of	 your	 breathing	 breathe	 deeply	 and	 the	 time	 you	 are
breathing	feel	you	are	in	the	lungs	but	the	same	time	you	are	feeling	you	are	in	the
lungs	you	can	feel	you	can	be	everywhere	in	your	body	the	air	and	the	oxygen	is	going
only	in	the	lungs	in	and	out	but	something	else	you	are	feeling	that	is	you	are	etheric
double	the	whole	body	the	time	now	you	are	breathing	and	the	air	is	confined	only	in	the
lungs	getting	in	and	out	you	can	feel	the	whole	body	be	in	your	whole	body	in	the	fingers
in	the	face	in	the	feet	everywhere	feel	now	you	are	in	the	body	and	feel	that	that's	your
source	this	is	the	etheric	double	you	are	concentrated	on	the	aesthetic	or	feeling	giving
ether	it's	not	only	the	air	and	oxygen	that	matters	but	also	the	etheric	vitality	you	are
using	subconsciously	now	you	can	use	it	consciously	just	feel	in	your	body	you	are
breathing	 oxygen	 etheric	 vitality	 and	 God	 life	 you	 are	 breathing	 etheric	 vitality	 and
through	the	lungs	but	at	the	same	time	you	breathe	it	with	your	whole	etheric	double
feeling	it	you	feel	it	this	is	the	super	substance	of	the	mind	uncolored	now	what	I	tell	you
is	rather	difficult	that	it	needs	much	practice	but	I'll	say	that	and	feel	it	we	are	in	God
God	is	everywhere	in	us	out	of	our	bodies	and	in	our	bodies	feel	it	I	don't	say	him	feel
God	as	the	highest	intelligence	to	which	you	can	attune	yourself	enjoying	it's	it's	total
wisdom	it's	almightiness	it's	total	love	does	he	understand	and	he	feels	what	you	are
feeling	now	it's	stupid	to	believe	that	the	one	who	gave	you	the	eyes	to	see	is	not	seeing
the	one	who	gave	you	the	ears	to	hear	is	not	hearing	the	one	who	gave	you	that	handful
of	matter	you	call	brains	to	think	with	is	not	thinking	you	can	talk	to	him	he	is	talking	to
you	just	listen	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	the	God	man	spreading	his	hands	out	to	the
scenes	 was	 saying	 I	 am	 the	 Lord	 you	 are	 God	 in	 you	 you	 are	 God	 in	 you	 you	 are
beingness	and	the	local	was	saying	I	am	the	Lord	you	are	God	in	you	as	you	are	the
human	being	self	just	enjoy	that	human	beingness	self	try	to	understand	what	is	life
what	is	you	are	soul	in	life	and	free	yourself	from	the	false	impression	that	you	are	an
isolated	personality	having	a	name	of	a	man	or	a	woman	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ
said	you	are	God's	offspring	of	the	infinite	father	find	your	immortal	everlasting	self	life
those	who	believe	in	me	and	know	me	will	taste	no	death	but	will	live	in	eternity	breathe
deeply	comfortably	fill	your	heart	and	clean	it	to	reflect	love	nothing	except	love	love	to
all	human	beings