

04	-	Labyrinth
Now,	there	is	something	we	should	make	it	clear	so	that	we'll	not	make	a	mistake.	If	one
who	 represents	 a	 personality,	 that	 petty	 person,	 with	 a	 name,	 male	 or	 female,	 no,	 our
real	self	can	do	that,	will	spread	and	raise	itself	to	these	dimensions	of	the	self,	real	self,
now	 super-consciousness,	 is	 reaching	 those	 heights	 in	 himself,	 in	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the
heavens	 which	 is	 in	 us,	 in	 our	 own	 nature,	 he	 enters	 in	 what	 I	 would	 say	 the	 eternal
present,	eternal	now.	He	frees	himself	from	the	limitations	of	what	we	call	time	as	past,
present	and	future.
Now,	 I	 define	 them	 well	 but	 it's	 very	 difficult	 for	 me	 to	 grasp	 the	 idea	 unless	 you	 reach
that	 stage	 yourself	 because	 by	 God	 and	 even	 reading	 books	 and	 all	 that	 you	 cannot
know	anything	unless	you	know	it	yourself.	I	will	give	just	an	example	which	I	have	given
many,	many	times.	If	I	try	to	explain	to	you	what	something	sold,	how	can	I	do	that?	If	I
present	to	you	volumes	of	books	of	a	scientist,	H2,	H3,	mixing	that	and	that,	it	gives	us
something	sold	and	like	that.
Read	as	many	books	as	you	like.	Many	of	you	have	read	many	occult	books	of	this	until
now	and	you	found	out	nothing.	So,	it's	not	reading	or	hearing	or	being	taught	of	things
that	you	learn	them.
So,	 volumes	 and	 volumes	 of	 books	 cannot	 tell	 you	 what	 is	 something	 sold.	 But	 if	 you
come	to	me	and	I	have	just	a	little	salt	somewhere	here,	I	tell	you	just	put	your	finger	on
your	tongue,	make	it	wet,	put	it	on	this	salt,	put	it	back	on	your	tongue	and	put	it	and	I
told	you	now	what's	sold.	You	will	not	say,	now	I	know	what	is	something	sold.
Why?	 Because	 you	 have	 experienced	 it.	 So,	 I'm	 telling	 you,	 teachers,	 gurus,	 masters,
religion,	 everything	 are	 nothing	 but	 guides	 leading	 you	 somewhere.	 You	 have	 to	 know
personally,	otherwise	nobody	can	explain	to	you	more.
And	 Joshua	 Emmanuel	 the	 Christ	 said,	 know	 the	 truth,	 you,	 you	 must	 know	 the	 truth,
know	the	truth	and	the	truth	will	set	you	free	from	illusions,	not	the	teaching	of	others.	I
can't	 say	 that	 whatever	 we	 have	 is	 not	 valuable,	 valuable	 to	 guide	 you	 somewhere	 but
that's	 not	 enough.	 You	 have	 to	 realize	 what	 it	 is	 in	 it,	 reject	 it	 if	 it	 is	 not	 worthy,
experiencing	it	and	knowing	it	or	accept	it	and	by	accepting	it	is	not	enough.
Practice	and	by	practicing	you	will	know.	It's	by	putting	your	finger	on	the	tongue,	on	the
salt	 and	 then	 back	 again	 that	 you	 know	 what	 is	 something	 sold.	 Nobody	 can	 explain	 to
you	otherwise.
Let's	say	now,	yes,	you	are	right,	tell	us	how	is	that.	That's	example	very,	very	nice.	We
know	it,	it's	enlightening	example.
How	can	we	come	to	this	experience	you	are	saying?	I	have	given	it	many,	many	times.

By	 certain	 exercises,	 in	 meditation,	 always	 be	 careful	 in	 what	 I	 call	 observation,	 using
the	 mind	 properly	 in	 the	 proper	 meditation,	 reaching	 this,	 teachers	 we	 call	 inspiration,
ecstasy,	contemplation,	then	you	come	to	the	understanding	yourself.	You	know	what	is
everything	as	it	is	and	you	know	who	you	are	now.
Then	 you	 take	 out	 of	 yourself	 that	 dirty,	 very	 dirty	 sometimes,	 coat	 you	 are	 wearing,
considering	it	yourself,	which	I	call	it	personal	egoism.	You	throw	it	away	and	say,	now	I
am	clean	and	I	know	who	I	am	now.	With	that	coat	rubbing	yourself,	you	have	the	idea	of
death	because	sooner	or	later	you	have	to	cast	it	out.
As	long	as	you	consider	the	coat	as	it	is	yourself,	you	will	be	afraid	of	the	idea	of	death.
But	when	you	take	it	out,	you	know	you	are	immortal.	You	know	that	you	are	God.
Now	 I	 had	 a	 certain	 question	 from	 somebody.	 Do	 I	 take	 off	 that	 dirty	 coat,	 you	 say	 we
call	it	egoism,	egoism	of	the	personality,	by	the	death	of	the	material	body?	Is	this	coat
of	egoism	the	material	body?	I	say	no,	it	isn't.	It	is	something	different	because	you	carry
it	 with	 you	 in	 the	 psychical	 plane	 and	 that	 coat	 is	 leading	 whether	 to	 your	 paradise,	 to
your	shell	paradise	or	to	your	shell	heaven.
So	you	don't	cast	the	egoism	so	easily,	even	by	casting	away	from	the	self	the	material
body.	Do	I	cast	this	personality,	egoism,	the	illusion	about	the	self	in	the	psychical	plane?
Yes,	you	will,	the	heavy	coat	you	can	cast	away	but	you	have	another	one	under	it,	again
belonging	to	the	egoism.	You	have	to	take	that	out	also,	which	is	what	I	call	the	body	of
emotions.
So	you	are	not	free	even	in	what	I	call	the	psychical	plane	because	in	the	psychical	plane
you	 have	 the	 shell	 paradises	 and	 the	 shell	 hells.	 You	 are	 in	 it,	 in	 them,	 shells,	 because
they	 resemble	 a	 shell,	 wearing	 a	 coat,	 an	 overcoat,	 then	 a	 coat.	 Well,	 we	 take	 that	 out
also.
There	is	a	shirt	now	which	may	not	be	white,	it	might	be	white,	clean,	but	it	may	not	be
white.	Shirt,	which	is	the	nautical	body.	You	have	to	take	that	out	also	to	feel	naked	and
God.
So	don't	think	that	by	what	we	call	death	of	the	material	body,	you	are	free.	You	are	not,
because	 there	 is	 the	 psychical	 world	 and	 in	 between	 the	 psychical	 world	 and	 the
material	is	the	ethereal	world.	We	don't	stay	there,	we	just	pass	from	there,	but	we	stay
in	the	psychical	world	and	you	have	just	to	be	under	the	same	troubles	as	we	are	on	the
material	plane.
Then,	there,	but	now	we	are	there	also.	We	are	living	at	the	same	time,	we	are	living	in
our	material	body,	more	we	are	living	in	our	psychical	world,	in	our	psychical	shell,	in	our
psychical	 body.	 It's	 not	 a	 matter	 now	 of	 changing	 place	 in	 space,	 but	 it's	 changing
dimensions.

We	 are	 going	 from	 the	 third	 dimensional	 place,	 space,	 to	 what	 I	 call	 the	 fourth
dimensional	 sense	 of	 place,	 not	 space,	 in	 which,	 of	 course,	 plastics	 in	 the	 air,	 you	 find
out	that	space,	the	idea	of	space,	is	gone	away.	Yet	it	is	giving	the	sense	of	a	place,	good
or	 bad,	 hell	 or	 paradise.	 But	 I	 said	 in	 a	 lesson	 that	 nobody	 would	 find	 himself	 after
casting	away	his	material	body	to	any	hell	or	any	paradise,	he	is	not	already	now.
When	 we	 pass	 over	 to	 the	 other	 side,	 don't	 think	 that	 there	 are	 certain	 archangels	 and
angels	accusing	us	and	devils	catching	us	to	classify	us	in	this	kind	of	hell	or	in	this	just
pleasure-giving	paradise.	No,	the	archangels	of	the	elements	are	loving	us,	are	working
for	 us	 to	 provide	 us	 with	 our	 material	 body,	 with	 our	 psychical	 body	 and	 with	 ethical
body.	They	are	working,	they	are	helping	us,	they	are	loving	us.
They	are	not	accusers.	Then	who	is	accusing	us?	Our	own	self	is	accusing	us.	This	is	the
real	truth.
So,	 one	 finds	 himself	 or	 herself	 just	 where	 he	 or	 she	 is	 already,	 only	 casting	 out	 the
material	body.	So,	it's	not	a	place	we	can	just	define	the	so-called	psychical	world	of	our
planet,	of	course	it	is,	the	whole	planet	and	many,	many,	many	thousands	of	kilometers
around	it.	But	it	doesn't	touch	any	other	psychical	world	of	another	heavenly	body	of	our
solar	system,	the	psychical	world.
And	 where	 is	 the	 nautical	 world?	 In	 us.	 We	 are	 in	 it.	 Now,	 we	 are	 using	 the	 super
substance	of	the	mind.
We	 are	 living	 now	 at	 the	 same	 time	 in	 the	 nautical	 world.	 But	 studying	 it,	 we	 call	 it
psycho-nautical	because	there	cannot	be	emotions	and	desires	mind	in	it.	That's	why	in
certain	books	you'll	find	psycho-nautical,	not	only	psychical.
And	if	we	separate	it,	it	is	just	to	study	them	separately.	So,	our	hell	or	our	paradise,	our
self-hell	  or	  self-paradise	  is	  composed	  of	  nautical	  mind	  substance	  and	  psychical
substance.	Now,	in	us.
And	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ	said	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	is	in	you.	He	didn't	look	at
any	place	in	space.	In	you.
Now,	it's	the	most	difficult	problem.	In	us.	Where	is	that?	In	us.
We	know	ourselves	just	a	little	limited	mass	of	matter.	We	call	it	the	material	body.	What
do	 you	 know	 of	 our	 psychical	 body?	 I	 wish	 I	 could	 explain	 to	 you	 more,	 but	 you'll	 not
understand	because	there	are	not	words	to	explain.
And	what's	the	nautical	body?	Again,	I	come	to	the	example.	You	have	to	put	your	finger
on	your	tongue	and	taste	it	and	know	what	it	is.	You	live,	you	learn	to	live	what	I	call	self-
consciously	in	the	psychical	world.

With	the	psychical	body,	you	will	never	be	able	to	know	what	is	the	psychical	body.	You
can	know	much	about	the	material	body.	Just	getting	a	book	of	anatomy,	you	can	know
much	about	it.
So,	 this	 is	 to	 know	 much	 about	 the	 psychical	 body	 of	 yours	 before	 you	 live	 in	 it,	 you
shape	it,	you	make	it	just	an	independent	from	the	material	body	vehicle	for	expressing
yourself.	 And	 this	 is	 the	 work	 of	 a	 seeker	 of	 the	 truth.	 The	 same	 thing	 will	 happen	 with
your	nautical	body.
What	 I	 can	 only	 tell	 you	 is	 both	 the	 nautical	 body	 and	 the	 psychical	 body	 have	 a	 form,
because	nothing	can	exist	without	having	a	form.	A	form,	but	what's	a	form	now?	A	form
is	a	phenomenon	in	the	material	world.	But	what	is	that	form	of	myself	in	the	psychical
world?	What	kind	of	space	it	occupies?	It's	very	hard	to	think	of	it.
What	 is	 it?	 As	 you	 are	 using	 the	 material	 body	 subconsciously	 without	 knowing	 it,	 you
are	 using	 already.	 Subconsciously,	 you	 are	 a	 psychical	 body.	 If	 a	 fellow	 passes	 away,	 I
had	many	times	this	experience,	just	experiences,	passes	over.
I	had	this.	And	three	sons,	the	one	is	in	Australia,	the	other	is	in	England,	and	the	other	is
in	 America,	 and	 they	 just	 want	 to	 communicate	 with	 their	 father,	 who	 has	 passed	 over.
Of	course,	they	just	calculate	the	time	to	coincide	at	the	same	time.
They	 go	 to	 expert,	 we	 call	 them	 mediums,	 and	 the	 father	 is	 talking	 with	 the	 three	 of
them	 at	 the	 same	 time.	 Where	 was	 he	 at	 that	 moment?	 In	 Australia?	 In	 England?	 In
America?	 I	 had	 this	 experience.	 He	 was	 speaking	 and	 talking,	 revealing	 secrets	 which
they	 didn't	 know	 to	 them,	 to	 the	 three	 of	 them,	 what	 the	 existence	 of	 some	 world	 has
hidden,	to	go	and	get	it.
They	 got	 it.	 They	 came	 and	 they	 found	 it	 in	 Cyprus.	 Where	 was	 he?	 We	 communicated
with	him,	asking	him,	did	you	see	your	sons?	Yes,	of	course.
They	came	to	me.	Came	to	me.	Where?	They	came	to	him.
Where	 was	 he?	 In	 his	 shallow	 room,	 in	 the	 Psychical	 Play.	 He	 thinks	 they	 came	 to	 him.
Well,	of	course,	they	revealed	this	to	some	of	the	priests	that	told	me,	she's	a	devil.
That	was	not	your	father	who	spoke	to	you.	But	our	father	had	revealed	to	us	that	he	had
a	bag	of	gold	and	we	went	and	found	it.	Yes,	the	devil	can	do	that.
They	have	asked	me,	was	it	our	father?	I	said,	definitely	it	was	your	father.	But	where	did
he	find	us?	I	said,	it's	difficult	to	explain	to	you	what	it	means	place	in	the	Psychical	Play
and	 what	 it	 means	 place	 in	 the	 Material	 Play.	 You'll	 never	 understand	 unless	 you	 know
what	 the	 difference	 is	 between	 the	 three-dimensional	 world	 and	 the	 four-dimensional
world.

It	doesn't	only	need	the	mind	and	meditation,	but	observation,	much	observation.	Never
jump	 from	 conclusion	 to	 conclusion,	 ideas	 from	 ideas,	 unless	 you	 are	 sure.	 Because	 as
there	 are	 physical	 laws	 on	 the	 Material	 Plane,	 there	 are	 Psychical	 Laws	 in	 the	 Psychical
Plane	 and	 all	 the	 realms	 of	 existence,	 because	 these	 are	 worlds	 of	 existence,	 are	 well
ruled	by	this	absolute,	infinite,	super-intentional	intelligence	we	call	the	Locus.
God	in	his	two	expressions,	as	we	can	understand,	as	El	Shaddai,	Locus,	Hosea	Kina,	that
means	Holy	Spirit.	I'm	using	the	word	Jesus	Christ	Joshua	was	using,	addressing	the	Jews.
This	is	Aramaic.
So,	 you'll	 find	 everywhere	 order,	 in	 all	 the	 worlds.	 A	 real	 seeker	 of	 the	 truth,	 seeing	 all
that	 approaches	 these	 things	 with	 much	 reverence,	 because	 he	 knows,	 if	 you	 ask	 him,
who	 is	 God?	 What	 is	 God?	 He'll	 say,	 I	 know!	 Where	 is	 God?	 In	 me,	 in	 you,	 and
everywhere.	 Unfortunately,	 the	 first	 Christians,	 of	 course,	 the	 Apostles,	 writing	 the
Gospels,	in	the	Greek	language,	all	of	them,	only	a	few	parts	of	the	Gospel	according	to
Matthew	is	written	in	Aramaic,	have	taken	out	many	great	truths,	but	you	can	find	them
in	the	Cosmic	Consciousness.
You	can	contact	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	now,	because	he's	here,	everywhere,	in	us.
It's	 just	 only	 raising	 our	 petty	 little	 self-consciousness	 now	 to	 our	 real	 self-super-
consciousness.	Then,	you	can	see	it.
When	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	was	preaching,	stretching	out	his	hands,	saying	to	all
of	 them,	 feeling	 himself	 as	 the	 El	 Shaddai,	 the	 Locus,	 says,	 my	 most	 beloved	 ones,
offsprings	of	mine.	Now,	they	leave	something	and	they	have	taken	out	something	else.
And	he	says,	I	am	the	Lord.
You	are	God	in	you.	You	are	being.	You	are	being	self.
You	will	love	me,	the	Lord,	in	you,	as	you	are	being,	and	love	me	as	the	being	of	every
other	 human	 being	 around	 you.	 That's	 why	 Jesus	 said,	 we	 are	 all.	 He	 was	 guiding	 us	 to
the	 common	 Locus	 selfhood,	 taking	 us	 out	 from	 the	 just,	 but	 smelling	 mud	 of	 this	 so-
called	subconsciousness	in	the	world	of	separateness.
We	 enter	 in	 a	 different	 now	 condition	 of	 life.	 Now,	 we	 will	 not	 make	 the	 mistake	 that
many	Buddhists	are	making	this	mistake.	It's	growing.
Our	present-day	personality	will	have	so	much.	Losing	it?	Not	it.	It's	subconscious	we	are
losing.
The	time	and	place,	impressions	we	are	losing.	Not	the	real,	even	petty	self	receiving	the
impressions.	We	are	not	losing	it.
But	 finding	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the	 heaven	 which	 is	 in	 us,	 everything	 will	 be	 granted	 to	 us.
We	are	not	going	to	lose	even	our	present-day	personality	as	Mary,	Helen,	George,	and

Alex.	 Because	 when	 we	 start	 absolute	 selfhood	 in	 those	 things,	 you	 know	 what	 you	 are
as	God.
You	 know	 what	 you	 are	 in	 those	 plenty	 realms.	 But	 if	 somebody	 will	 ask	 you,	 who	 are
you?	You'll	say,	I'll	not	explain	you	who	I	am	now	because	you	don't	understand.	But	I'll
tell	you,	I	am	that	fellow	because	that	you'll	understand,	because	that	you	know.
I'm	 not	 losing	 even	 my	 personality.	 And	 a	 proof	 of	 it,	 when	 you	 reach	 that	 stage,	 you
remember	all	your	past	incarnations,	names,	thoughts,	way	of	living,	which	it	means	you
are	not	losing	anything.	You	are	gaining	everything.
So	 reaching	 those,	 I'll	 call	 it	 stages,	 degrees	 of	 splendor,	 you	 know	 everything	 because
God	knows	everything.	And	you	are	God.	I	don't	say	you	are	becoming	God.
You	 are	 not	 going	 to	 become	 something	 you	 are	 not.	 Now	 you	 realize	 what	 you	 are.	 I
wish	 I	 would	 be	 allowed	 to	 speak	 more	 on	 these	 things,	 but	 Jochen	 is	 not	 going	 to	 say
more.
Not	 that	 he's	 keeping	 secret	 things.	 You	 will	 not	 understand	 and	 you	 will	 be	 more
confused.	So	I'm	asking	now	again,	what's	life?	What	I	do	is	just	show	the	way.
Show	 the	 way	 which	 means	 you	 will	 have	 life.	 That	 will,	 I	 don't	 call	 it	 desire,	 to	 go	 that
way.	He	said,	I	am	the	way,	life	and	truth.
He	 said	 that	 in	 Greek.	 He	 said,	 εγώ	 είμαι	 η	 οδός	 και	 η	 αλήθεια	 και	 η	 ζωή.	 So	 he	 had
shown	the	way.
One	can	show	you	the	way.	Don't	expect	that	one	will	get	you	on	his	shoulders	and	carry
you.	Because	this	is	what	most	of	the	people	want	to,	from	someone	guiding	them	to	do.
They	tell	you,	masters,	gurus,	call	them	what	you	like.	Avatars,	call	them	what	you	like.
Can	be	only	guides,	even	books.
Guides.	 You	 have	 to	 cover	 this	 way	 and	 go.	 And	 this	 way	 is,	 I'll	 put	 it	 now,	 in	 the	 right
way.
Instead	 of	 using	 the	 mind	 in	 the	 wrong	 way,	 now	 enslaving	 it	 in	 the	 desires	 and	 in	 the
emotions,	 making	 that	 slave	 of	 your	 time	 and	 place,	 stupid	 egoism,	 personal	 egoism,
free	 it.	 And	 you	 now,	 not	 influenced	 by	 your	 material,	 personal	 egoism,	 start	 using	 it	 in
the	proper	way.	Use	it	as	a	mirror,	first	of	all,	to	see	you	are	yourself	reflected	in	it.
And	that,	know	everything	concerning	the	self.	Who	you	are,	what	you	are.	What	you	do
it	is	just.
Do	it	using	your	own	nature,	the	willpower	and	observation.	Now	using	the	mind	as	the
proper	 meditation,	 in	 introspection.	 Again,	 all	 the	 time	 you	 have	 to	 see	 everything

according	to	the	torch	of	observation.
Nothing	 must	 escape	 from	 you.	 And	 then	 you'll	 find	 a	 way.	 When	 you	 find	 a	 way,	 yes,
there	you	can	find	what	with	the	right	I'll	call	happiness.
There	is	no	such	thing	as	happiness	in	the	material	world,	or	in	the	psychical	world,	or	in
the	 nautical	 world.	 Yes,	 in	 these	 worlds	 you'll	 find	 health	 and	 paradises	 of	 our	 own
creation.	We	have	to	play.
The	 Mount	 Supersat	 is	 the	 greatest	 gift	 given	 to	 the	 human	 beings	 by	 the	 Father.	 Now
we	 must	 know	 how	 to	 make	 good	 use	 of	 it.	 Maybe	 studying	 the	 parable	 of	 the	 prodigal
son,	that	will	mean	something	to	you.
Now	we'll	make	an	exercise.	We	are	using	all	the	time	the	mind,	subconsciously.	Now	we
will	use	the	mind	consciously,	not	yet	self-consciously,	consciously.
By	 using	 what	 I'll	 call	 visualization.	 It's	 not	 a	 difficult	 thing	 to	 do	 it.	 This	 insight
represents	the	personality.
You	can	bring	in	your	mind,	that	means	by	visualization,	you're	seeing	a	person	you	love
very	much,	or	a	person	you	don't	like	much,	and	you	have	differences	with	that	person.
So	 subconsciously	 now	 you	 can	 use	 what	 I	 call	 visualization.	 Now,	 relax	 completely	 the
material	body.
Relax	 completely	 your	 emotional	 body,	 which	 means	 all	 differences	 you	 have	 with	 a
certain	 person,	 silence	 them	 down.	 If	 you	 bring	 certain	 person	 by	 visualization	 before
your	 mind,	 in	 your	 mind,	 then	 your	 psychical	 body	 will	 start	 its	 violent	 vibrations,	 and
then	 things	 which	 are	 in	 you	 will	 get	 up	 in	 the	 surface,	 that	 hatred,	 anger,	 and	 many,
many	things,	and	you	say	to	yourself,	don't	mention	me	that	fellow,	it	makes	me	angry.
That's	what	I	mean.
Silence	 down	 the	 emotional	 body,	 and	 bring	 fellows	 with	 whom	 you	 have	 differences	 in
front	of	you.	Be	calm,	quiet,	see	that	fellow,	calm	that	fellow	down,	because	that	fellow
now	 in	 your	 imagination	 is	 attached	 to	 that	 fellow.	 See	 from	 your	 heart	 light,	 golden
light,	and	rosy	light,	 lighting	everything	around	 you,	and	see	that	 light	lighting	the	face
of	 that	 fellow	 one	 or	 more,	 it	 doesn't	 matter	 how	 many	 you	 bring,	 and	 see	 that	 fellow
under	that	light,	of	your	heart,	which	is	not	your	light,	it	is	of	the	light	of	the	world,	I	am
the	light	of	the	world,	which	is	love.
See	that	face,	happy,	smiling	to	you,	and	then	express	yourself	in	words	mentally,	I	love
you,	because	you	are	a	goddess,	I	am	one.	Never	mind	that	we	both	have	mistakes,	and
you	 are	 under	 the	 illusions	 of	 time	 and	 space,	 I	 love	 you,	 never	 mind,	 I	 said	 that	 you
have	differences,	we	are	not	going	again	to	mix	up	ourselves	with	those	differences,	you
are	 simply	 now	 on	 higher	 realms,	 expressing	 you,	 my	 divine	 nature	 to	 your	 divine
nature,	 I	 tell	 you	 I	 love	 you.	 Do	 that	 every	 day,	 for	 certain	 people	 you	 have	 certain

differences,	 whether	 you	 are	 right	 or	 you	 are	 not	 right,	 they	 are	 right	 or	 they	 are	 not
right,	 that	 doesn't	 matter,	 differences	 do	 exist,	 and	 you	 can	 put	 down	 the	 fire	 by	 water
love	and	not	by	fire,	which	is	hating,	that	doesn't	mean	you	undertake	the	obligation	of
approach	again,	and	having	your	time	and	place	personalities	fight	again,	no	need,	you
are	a	self	now,	you	don't	need	any	meeting	with	those	fellows	on	the	material	plane.
Now	if	you	think,	you	think	you	could	cope	with	this	case	again,	and	the	differences	will
go	 away,	 by	 doing	 that	 you	 may	 influence	 that	 fellow	 and	 approach	 you,	 that's	 a
different	matter	if	you	just	to	settle	up	your	debts	between	you,	but	many	people	are	not
yet	ready,	but	send	love,	the	love	of	God	in	you	to	your	brother	in	you,	because	having
him	in	your	mind	by	visualization	is	in	you,	hating	him,	the	hatred	is	in	you,	and	hating	is
a	 very	 very	 bad	 poison	 which	 is	 killing	 even	 your	 material	 bodies,	 that's	 why	 Joshua
Banner	 of	 the	 Christ	 said,	 love	 your	 enemies,	 they	 may	 consider	 themselves	 your
enemies,	but	you	will	not	have	enemies,	you	have	only	loving	brothers	and	sisters	under
the	influence	of	illusions	in	the	three-dimensional	world	we	are	living	in.