

1	-	Gods	in	Exile
Our	Father	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions,	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	not	into	temptation,	but	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom,	and
the	power,	and	the	glory,	forever.	Absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.
Everlasting	life,	love,	and	mercy.	Manifesting	yourself	in	yourself,	as	your	total	wisdom
and	your	almightyness.	Enlighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.
Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	The	lesson	today	will	be	of	great	importance.
Because	it	will	state	what	do	we	believe	as	seekers	of	the	truth.	And	also	the	proof	that
what	we	believe	is	right.	That's	why	it	is	most	important.
What	we'll	hear	today	you	cannot	find	it	in	books.	Because	those	who	have	known	these
things	could	not	just	present	things	in	words	or	in	books.	And	I	confess	that	what	I	try	to
do	now	is	something	very	daring	to	do.
But	I	will	try,	though	I	believe	I	will	be	most	awkward	in	expressing	everything	I	know	in
words.	 Not	 only	 in	 English,	 in	 any	 language.	 What	 I	 will	 say	 is	 out	 of	 personal
experiences.
Now,	we	said	what	we	know	about	what	we	call	the	absolute	reality.	What's	reality?
About	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.	About	God,	is	that	God	is	the	everlasting	life.
So,	the	absolute	life.	But	can	one	know	what	is	an	ocean	by	analyzing	and	seeing	a	drop
of	water	from	the	ocean?	In	quality,	yes.	But	in	quantity,	no.
Anyhow,	we	can	know	something	after	we	raise	our	self-consciousness	to	higher	and
higher	levels	of	self-consciousness	to	understand	what	we	are	in	reality.	And	then	we
understand	what	is	the	absolute	reality.	Absolute	reality.
Yes,	but,	now,	suppose	somebody	will	ask	you,	Do	you	know	what	is	the	sun?	Of	course
you	say,	I	know	what	is	the	sun.	Just	all	of	fire	in	the	sky	giving	us	light.	Heat,	during	the
winter	we	can	sit	out	and	get	warm.
And,	of	course,	I'll	ask	you,	do	you	really	know	what	is	the	sun?	You	say,	of	course	I	know
what	is	the	sun.	Because	I	can	sit	in	the	sunshine	and	get	warm.	I	can	see	on	the	sky,	not
for	a	long	time,	because	that	will	burn	my	eyes.
Are	you	sure	you	know	what	is	the	sun?	Just	billions	of	times	bigger	than	the	planet
Earth.	If	we	say	we	know	what	is	the	sun,	we'll	be	liars.	But	if	we	say	we	don't	know	what

is	the	sun,	again	we'll	be	liars.
Because	we	know	something	about	the	sun.	In	the	same	way,	if	we	say	that	we	do	know
what	is	God,	we'll	be	liars.	But	if	we	say	we	don't	know	what	is	God,	again	we'll	be	liars.
Can	 we	 just	 engage	 our	 material	 brains,	 a	 handful,	 I	 said,	 of	 soil,	 with	 what	 is	 the
absolute	infinite	beingness?	That's	very	dangerous.	It's	as	dangerous	to	the	eyes	looking
at	the	sun.	It	is	likewise	very	dangerous	to	the	human	intelligence	to	engage	itself	with
this	absolute	reality.
To	the	human	intelligence.	Not	to	us.	Because	we	are	not	only	an	expression	as	human
beings	showing	a	kind	of	human	intelligence.
As	I	said,	we	should	know	these	things.	After	raising	up	our	consciousness,	we	all	know
that	we	just	express	a	kind	of	consciousness.	Subconsciously	though,	if	we	raise	that
kind	of	our	consciousness	to	higher	and	higher	and	higher	levels,	to	what	I	say,	super
self-consciousness,	then	we	know	that	it's	not	any	more	any	danger	in	knowing.
But	are	we	that	time	really	human	beings?	Or	we	are	something	more?	Are	we	the
animals	just	moving	about	with	a	material	body	not	very	different	from	the	bodies	of	all
the	other	animals	around	us?	Of	course	we	are	different.	We	are	gods.	And	we	can	just
know	by	expanding	our	selfhood	to	what	I	say,	self-superconsciousness,	to	know	what?
What	we	really	are.
Because	we	are	not	going	to	become	anything	we	are	not	now.	So	we	have	double
nature	now.	Our	human,	petty	nature.
The	shadow	of	our	self.	And	our	real	self.	What	is	our	real	self?	First	of	all,	our	real	self,
the	self	of	every	one	of	us	is	a	spirit,	ego	being.
Self-conscious,	ego	being.	What	are	we?	Even	as	gods.	A	ray	of	our	self.
Not	the	whole	of	our	self,	because	our	self	is	all	the	time	in	attunement	with	the	absolute
infinite	reality.	With	the	absolute	infinite	selfhood.	But	even	that	ray	is	our	self.
It's	that	great	self.	No	need	to	know	what's	the	ocean.	I	know	now	what's	a	drop	of	water
from	the	ocean.
But	shall	we	see	things	as	quantity?	No.	Just	seeing	things	less,	more,	and	still	more	is	by
comparison.	Comparison,	that's	in	the	law	of	the	world	of	separateness.
We	enter	now	in	the	world	of	the	great	truth.	There	is	not	anything	as	less	or	more,	big
or	small.	It	is	what	is	the	reality.
So	we,	even	that	ray	of	that	self	of	ours	always	in	attunement	with	the	infinite	selfhood.
We	are	not	less	than	our	real	self,	that	spirit,	ego	being.	We	are	that,	and	that	is	we.

Now	we	have	just	to	reach	to	the	so-called	self-realization.	How?	Just	seeing	what	the
absolute	infinite	beingness	is	doing,	and	we	do	the	same.	Exactly.
That's	what	we	have	to	do.	Now,	we	say	that	each	one	of	us	is	a	divine	ray	of	our	spirit,
ego	self,	incarnated	and	humanized.	How?	We	can	study	that.
Observation,	meditation,	self-realization.	Studying	the	petty	self	of	our	personality,	which
is	nothing	more	than	the	shadow	of	that	self	of	ours.	We	can	study	that.
Who	is	studying	it?	Both.	And	our	human	material	self	having	in	it	our	real	nature.	They
said	yesterday	that	we,	human	beings,	living	even	in	a	form,	material	form,	not	different
in	constitution	by	the	other	animals,	yet	we	are	gods.
So	we	have	double	nature.	We	have,	just	by	introspection,	find	it	out.	Did	anybody
before	us,	through	all	those	centuries	we	call	the	past,	have	found	that	great	truth	out?
Many.
And	they	have	just	expressed	that	truth,	again	I	say,	most	awkwardly,	in	a	human	way,
as	I	am	doing	now.	Most	awkwardly.	How	can	one	express	what	is	light?	Unless	we	take
you	and	tell	you,	see	the	light,	and	now	you	know	what	is	the	light.
Otherwise,	how	you	would	know	what	is	the	light?	Without	seeing	it.	I	am	telling	you	that
many,	many	in	the	past	have	reached	that	level	of	self-superconsciousness	to	make	this
self-realization.	 All	 others?	 In	 the	 past	 centuries?	 Now?	 Now,	 living	 on	 the	 planet,
everywhere,	 in	 the	 material	 plane,	 in	 any	 nation,	 civilized	 or	 not,	 what	 are	 they?
Concentrated	on	the	shadow	of	themselves,	which	is	their	personality.
Making	the	mistake,	the	expression	of	this	time	and	place	self,	to	think	they	are	that,
and	 live	 just	 only	 one	 step	 above	 all	 the	 other	 animals.	 Unfortunately,	 sometimes
behaving	like	wild	beasts,	killing.	You	can	find	this	in	all	the	countries	of	the	world	today.
You	could	find	it	in	all	the	countries	of	the	world	at	all	times	in	the	past.	Now,	great	ones,
amongst	us,	who	I	believe	they	have	been	sent	on	this	mission,	by	the	infinite	beingness,
to	guide	their	brothers	away	from	the	darkness	and	the	illusion,	to	find	themselves	have
come	on	the	planet.	Until	the	God-man,	directly	from	the	locus,	the	locus	came	down	to
show	us	the	way.
Which	way?	Not	necessarily	of	returning	back	home,	but	of	living	a	better	life.	Until	we
return	back	home.	Where?	It's	not	a	matter	of	place,	to	return	back	to	our	real	nature.
Our	divine	nature.	Because	I	said,	we	are	gods.	When	the	petty	shadowy	self	of	the
personality	today	will	cast	away	from	it,	just,	I'll	call	them,	those	elementals	composing
the	personality,	enrich	the	knowledge	who	is	that	real	self	behind	it.
This	is	just	the	great,	the	great	achievement.	To	find	who	we	are,	and	later	what	we	are.

Reaching	our	inner	nature.
Is	it	necessary	just	to	reach	to	that?	To	leave	our	material	body,	the	psychical	and	the
neurotic	body?	Is	it	necessary?	No!	That's	not	the	aim	of	just	throwing	away	the	material
body.	Because	our	material	body,	our	psychical	body,	and	our	neurotic	body,	the	one
made	of	matter,	the	other	made	of	substance,	and	the	other	made	of	purer	substance,
are	nothing	more	but	the	shapes	of	our	real	human	form	in	God.	So	our	human	form	is
what	 I	 call	 our	 spirit	 body,	 which	 is	 immortal,	 it	 lives	 its	 own	 life	 with	 us,	 eternal,
incorruptible.
So,	on	reaching	back	to	our	nature,	it's	not	necessary	to	cast	away	the	human	form.
Which	is	now	our	spirit	body,	our	soul.	Many	times	we	hear	about	the	soul.
But	who	came	just	to	describe	to	you	what	is	the	soul?	What	are	you	as	a	soul?	This	is
the	point.	So	we	are	not	to	just	throw	away	our	human	form.	But	we	can	clean	our
bodies.
Our	 cross-material	 body,	 our	 what	 I	 call	 the	 psychical	 body,	 by	 knowing	 what's	 the
psychical	body.	By	using	now	our	etheric	double	of	our	material	body,	becoming	to	us
now	a	reality,	by	now	knowing	the	existence	of	our	so-called	noetical	body,	freeing	the
mind	from	serving	the	desires	and	the	emotions.	That	means	by	cleaning	these	bodies	in
such	a	way	to	reflect	the	light	of	our	spirit	body.
And	then,	our	ego,	present-day	self,	will	just	assimilate	all	that	to	the	real	spirit	body,
which	is	our	soul.	Our	human	purified	existence.	Existence.
Now	it's	a	different	thing	between	existence	and	beingness.	Existence	is	something	in
time	and	place-space.	But	beingness	means	in	the	eternal	now,	in	the	eternal	present.
You	have	just	to	study	all	these	states	of	consciousness	and	self-consciousness.	Though	I
know	 we	 are	 very	 deep	 waters,	 I	 think	 you	 can	 understand	 much.	 What	 is
consciousness?	We	said	yesterday	that	everything	on	the	material	plane	is	living.
The	 sun,	 the	 rocks,	 the	 metals,	 the	 crystals,	 everything	 is	 living.	 But	 living	 means
expressing	a	kind	of	existence	at	the	beginning	and	for	the	human	beings,	a	selfhood.
And	 we	 said	 yesterday	 that	 the	 mineral	 kingdom	 has	 what	 I	 call	 sensitiveness,
sensibility.
The	vegetable	kingdom	has	a	kind	of,	again,	more	developed	sensitivity	and	life.	The
animal	kingdom	is	showing	what	I	call	instinctive	subconsciousness.	The	human	being	is
expressing	a	kind	of	subconsciousness,	calling	it	waking	consciousness.
We	have	to	study	this.	Why	we	call	it	waking	consciousness?	Why	it	is	subconsciousness?
Now,	psychology	tries	just	tracing	in	darkness	to	find	out	a	solution	for	that.	For	us,	it's
known.

Studying	what	I	call	the	subconsciousness,	the	subconscious	mind.	Then,	finding	out	who
is	the	thinker	behind	all	that.	What	are	we?	Even	as	human	beings,	full	of	mistakes,
errors,	weaknesses,	stupidities.
What	are	we	behind	that?	By	concentration	and	introspection	we	find	our	way	out	from
this	darkness.	What	we	find?	That	our	personality	composed	of	those	elementals,	of	our
impressions,	likings	and	dislikings,	and	thoughts.	These	elementals	are	composing	the
present,	the	personality.
We	make	the	terrible	mistake	to	think	that	it's	our	self.	Now,	by	introspection,	studying
things,	we	start	to	find	out,	yes,	now,	who	am	I?	Thinking	behind	it.	Not	being	influenced
by	the	time	and	place,	space,	impressions.
Studying	the	nature	of	my	so-called	desires.	Thoughts.	Becoming	master	of	it.
Then	we	start	tracing	our	self.	To	know	who	we	are.	Who	we	are,	not	what	we	are.
Who	we	are?	A	self-consciousness	in	its	bodies.	A	god	in	exile.	That's	the	great	truth.
A	god	imprisoned	in	his	bodies,	which	he	has	been	imprisoned	in	them	to	purify	them,	to
make	them	good	enough	just	to	reflect	itself	in	the	right	way.	And	then	get	free	of	those
bodies	and	enter	and	express	himself	now	as	his	spirit	body,	which	is	just	a	human	form.
We	are	not	going	to	leave	away	our	human	form.
We	have	dressed	ourselves	with	our	human	forms	in	the	eternal	past.	Why	did	we	enter
in	the	human	form	unless	it	was	within	us	all	the	time	in	a	latent	state	of	beingness,
coming	out	to	the	world	of	existence?	It's	a	very	difficult	thing	to	trace.	I'm	trying	to
trace	it	now,	in	this	incarnation.
That's	 why	 I	 told	 you,	 I	 express	 all	 this	 great	 truth	 most	 awkwardly,	 not	 knowing
everything.	Now,	to	find	ourselves.	It's	discouraging.
Somebody	will	say,	to	find	what	I	am.	Not	something	more	to	what	I	am.	Of	course	you'll
find	much,	much	more.
You	are	considering	yourself	an	animal	living	in	a	material	body.	Of	course	you'll	find	out
what	we	are	in	the	bodies.	What	we	are	is	later.
We'll	find	our	true	nature	as	spirit,	ego,	sense.	In	the	absolute,	infinite	selfhood.	Then	we
understand	and	respect	what	is	self.
And	 what	 self	 is	 not	 what	 we	 think	 it	 is.	 Just	 a	 name,	 male	 or	 female,	 desires,
weaknesses,	impressions,	or	these	are	shadows	in	time	and	place.	So	important	to	our
personality	now.
Yes,	so	important,	yet	without	having	a	real	 value	to	our	real	selves	as	spirit,	ego,

source.	That's	the	great	truth.	So,	we	believe	that	and	we	have	a	proof	about	that.
That's	the	truth	and	the	proof	about	all	that.	Because	we	can	do	what	our	brethren,	the
holy	archangels	are	doing	in	the	universes,	all	the	universes.	Now	a	man	who	reaches
that	 level	 of	 self-superconsciousness	 can	 live	 self-superconsciously	 not	 only	 in	 the
material	plane,	but	in	the	psychical	plane,	be	an	invisible	helper.
In	 the	 innuendical	 plane,	 again	 be	 an	 invisible	 helper.	 And	 even	 beyond	 that,	 the
innuendic	planes.	So,	then	that	fellow	knows	what	are	the	works	of	existence	and	what	is
the	absolute,	infinite	beingness	as	the	reality	behind	them.
Now	he	realizes	what	is	in	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness	the	self-sufficiency	and	what	is
in	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness	as	the	holy	archangels,	the	mortal	beings,	his	brethren
the	will	pleasure	of	expressing	manifesting	themselves	where?	In	the	absolute,	infinite
beingness,	in	the	omnipresence	of	the	absolute,	infinite	selfhood.	And	what	he	finds	out
more	that	he	also,	as	a	spirit	solico	being	has	this	self-sufficiency	yet	he	expresses	the
will	pleasure	of	manifestation	in	which	way?	Some	are	coming	down	to	be	enchanted	by
matter	and	by	the	mind	substance,	a	super	substance	enchanted.	The	same	way	a	fellow
is	drinking	wine	and	becomes	drunk.
Most	of	the	people	are	like	that.	And	there	are	some	who	came	down,	let	us	say	that
down	to	the	emission	to	the	beginning	they	didn't	know	what	was	that	emission	until
during	many,	many,	many	incarnations	they	found	it	out.	Not	just	to	please,	create	and
please	a	time	and	place	personality	enchanted	by	what	is	material	and	personal	but
coming	down	self-aware	of	who	they	are	to	serve	their	fellow	men.
A	very,	very	difficult	task	indeed.	Very	difficult.	Even	for	gods.
So	we	have	just	these	two	expressions	of	those	rays	just	expanding	from	the	source	to
be	incarnated	and	humanized.	That's	a	proof.	We	are	humanized.
We	are	incarnated.	We	are	human	beings.	We	can	study	and	know	not	only	what	our
bodies	are	we	can	do	that	by	using	the	mind	and	thought	but	now	check	our	behavior
know	our	personality	and	study	it.
Study	our	expressions	the	reactions	from	the	material	plane	to	whom?	To	that	self	of
ours	which	in	nature	is	God	but	now	is	under	the	influence	of	the	words	of	darkness	of
ignorance	and	of	the	idea	of	death	being	a	human	being	being	a	present	day	personality
a	man	or	a	woman	but	now	studying	we	find	out	what?	That	is	not	for	a	long	time.	Of
course	 it	 is	 for	 a	 certain	 number	 of	 years	 expressing	 a	 shadow	 self	 a	 present	 day
personality	liking	and	disliking	being	pleased	or	displeased	feel	what	you	call	pain	or	joy
all	these	are	vanities	who	was	vanities	and	that's	good	it	is	so	that	they	don't	last	for
long	no	pain	lasts	forever	and	no	human	joy	likewise	that's	very	good	because	if	that
would	happen	then	it	will	make	those	rays	from	our	spirit	ego	being	being	misled	in	the

world	of	shadows	and	darkness	no	many	of	you	are	not	ready	to	receive	this	great	truth
being	so	much	in	love	with	your	material	self	but	after	all	you	won't	have	it	forever	the
material	body	which	is	changing	everyday	every	hour,	every	moment	because	this	cross
material	world	is	under	continuous	change	nothing	remains	everything	is	changing	we
are	 growing	 all	 living	 beings	 are	 growing	 and	 then	 passing	 over	 everything	 on	 this
material	world	you	have	to	study	in	the	course	of	existence	has	a	beginning	and	an	end
then	you	have	to	find	out	our	real	self	who	doesn't	have	a	beginning	and	an	end	but	is
what	I	call	the	everlasting	life	we	are	the	everlasting	life	but	who?	Mary?	George?	John?
Not	them	now	what	is	our	Christian	religion	teaching	us?	I	don't	mean	the	cardinals,	the
bishops	 and	 the	 archbishops	 the	 patriarchs	 they	 don't	 know	 what	 they	 say	 Joshua
Emmanuel	the	Christ	our	most	beloved	one	it's	in	the	bible,	you	can	find	it	and	trace	it
that's	all	that	so	we	have	a	proof	having	the	experiences	of	the	god	man	which	we	can
have	also	and	reach	to	the	right	knowledge	about	things	and	to	the	conviction	that	we
are	on	the	right	way	towards	the	truth	now	let	us	come	a	bit	lower	what	the	archangels
are	 doing	 what	 is	 common	 between	 us	 and	 our	 brethren	 the	 holy	 archangels	 the
archangels	expressing	their	archangelic	selfhood	self-awareness	according	to	its	nature
and	cooperating	together	in	a	most	perfect	way	they	are	using	the	super	substance	of
the	mind	formless,	having	in	it	the	principles,	the	ideas	the	causes,	the	laws	weaving
with	them	the	words	of	form	how?	Using	the	mind	meditating	weaving	out	the	laws	and
the	causes	into	the	words	of	the	forms	in	this	way,	constructing	the	words	of	existence
they	 work	 with	 what	 I	 say	 now	 time	 as	 present	 past	 and	 future	 these	 things	 are
developing	and	give	the	sense	of	time	going	on	therefore	they	have	the	power	being
almighty	to	materialize	the	mind	into	the	universes	to	all	material	forms	now	in	the
universes	and	in	the	cross-material	universe	around	us	every	kind	of	phenomenon	of	life
having	a	material	body,	marvellous	work	and	working	in	what	we	call	the	sense	of	time
working	what	I	said	yesterday	the	circle	of	possibilities	of	each	kind	of	phenomenon	of
life	this	is	a	marvellous	work	so	they	are	working	with	the	mind,	with	the	laws	the
principles	in	what	we	say	time	and	the	course	of	things	which	are	what?	the	locus	the
locus	is	the	infinite	beingness	in	manifestation	and	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	feeling
himself	being	the	locus	he	said	I	am	the	way,	the	course	of	things	I	am	the	way,	the	truth
and	life	great	truth	in	it	which	we	have	to	find	it	out	so	what	are	the	holy	archangels
doing?	just	being	in	attunement	with	the	locus	and	definitely	with	the	total	wisdom	of	the
infinite	beingness	and	their	total	wisdom	being	in	oneness	in	attunement	with	the	Lord
to	use	the	mind	that	soon	these	immortal	beings	and	the	absolute	beingness	expresses
when	always	the	will	pleasure	of	manifestation	the	mind	emanates	from	them	so	they
are	using	the	mind	and	we	said	in	a	lesson	that	the	mind	is	super	substance	formless
substance	substance	matter,	the	ethereal	world	and	cross	matter	cross	matter	is	solid
mind	nothing	is	outside	the	mind	now	let	us	see	how	these	holy	brethren	of	ours	are
working	they	create	in	themselves	and	in	the	absolute	beingness	the	sense	of	space
something	incomprehensible	to	us	what	space	boundless	space	to	work	in	it	work	with
the	omnipresence	in	space	of	the	absolute	reality	of	the	absolute	selfhood	so	meditating
working	on	the	principles	on	the	ideas	and	causes	them	manifest	the	forms	billions	and

billions	of	forms	to	be	materialized	all	phenomena	of	life	are	materialized	in	the	material
plane	but	there	are	also	other	phenomena	of	life	in	the	psychical	plane	in	the	ethereal
plane	in	the	egotical	plane,	one	raising	his	self	consciousness	to	those	levels	not	only	he
can	see	them	enjoy	them	in	the	same	way	he	can	enjoy	nature	here	around	him,	forest,
sea	and	everything,	can	enjoy	also	what	his	holy	brethren	are	creating	in	the	other
heavens	worlds	of	different	dimensions	and	just	there	I	think	he	can	just	understand
better	how	they	work	because	he	comes	in	those	worlds	in	contact	with	them,	in	self-
conscious	contact	with	them,	what	he	finds	out	that	they	are	just	materializing	the	mind
in	all	its	states	and	frequencies	of	vibration	of	existence	can	the	human	being	do	that?
definitely,	being	God	he	can	do	it	is	he	doing	it	now?	yes,	subconsciously	subconsciously
a	human	being,	any	human	being	either	aboriginate	or	highly	civilized	human	being	is
just	doing	it	subconsciously	by	creating	what	we	say	elementals	which	he	cannot	see
with	 his	 material	 eyes	 but	 he	 is	 under	 their	 pressure	 sometimes	 they	 crush	 him
psychology	calls	them	fixed	ideas	but	you	can	see	them	clairvoyantly	Christ	called	them
spirit,	meaningless	and	mute,	but	you	can	find	that	in	the	new	testament	and	what	these
elementals	can	do	today	drive	a	human	being	insane	to	the	mental	hospitals	in	the	old,
make	him	throw	himself	down	and	you	have	all	those	phenomena	of	epilepsy,	most	of
them	are	not	pathological	you	have	to	study	all	these	cases	so	what	is	written	in	the	new
testament	is	not	just	lazy	tales	they	are	realities	which	we	can	investigate	and	see	them
even	now	as	possessions	so,	a	human	being	every	hour,	every	day	every	moment	is
creating	these	elementals	by	using	subconsciously	the	super	substance	of	the	mind
giving	it	a	form	which	he	doesn't	see	with	his	material	eyes	but	they	are	visible	to	a
clairvoyant	if	he's	not	giving	them	himself	a	form	by	desiring	having	something,	a	jewel
or	 something	 around	 him	 they	 get	 their	 form	 sometimes	 very	 hideous,	 very	 just
terrifying	forms	especially	when	these	elementals	are	created	by	passions	hatred,	envy,
jealousy	just	the	feeling	of	attacking	and	man	is	responsible	for	he	either	creates	or
revitalizes	from	the	group	elementals	so	instead	of	a	human	being	man	or	a	woman,
living	in	this	society	in	any	place	being	always	under	the	influence	of	these	elementals
his	own	personality	because	the	sum	total	of	these	elementals	are	composing	a	man's
personality	expressed	as	the	personal	egoism	so	instead	of	just	all	the	time	being	under
this	influence	of	these	elementals	feeling	unhappy,	unsatisfied	miserable	it's	better	to
study	their	nature	find	out	who	he	is	and	what	he	can	do	degenerate	them	control	them
don't	you	think	that	this	is	after	all	a	great,	great	success	instead	of	all	the	time	being
slave	of,	quote	unquote,	circumstances	I	will	call	it	slave	of	the	elementals	he	is	creating
or	revitalizing	or	he	is	absorbing	created	or	revitalized	by	others	just	vibrating	on	the
same	frequency	of	vibrations	of	these	elementals	which	gives	to	him	the	responsibility
we	said	in	certain	lessons	though	we	are	in	an	ocean	now	a	psychical	ocean	around	the
planet	of	these	group	elementals	theft,	adultery	homosexuality	lust,	drinking	gambling,
so	many,	so	many	group	elementals	we	are	in	this	ocean	then	we	are	responsible	if	we
vibrate	according	to	their	vibrations	and	throw	them	like,	seeks	like	no	good	man	can	be
influenced	by	what	we	call	evil	elementals	though	a	wicked	person	can	be	influenced
sometimes	 by	 what	 we	 call	 the	 love	 elementals	 or	 the	 good	 elementals	 because

everybody	can	find	himself	sometimes	feeling	being	good	so,	throwing	good	elementals