

1
Our	Father	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions,	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	while	being	in	temptation,	and	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom,
and	the	power,	and	the	glory,	for	ever.	Absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.
Everlasting	life,	love,	and	mercy.	Manifesting	yourself	in	yourself	as	your	total	wisdom,
and	your	almightiness	in	your	omnipresence.	Enlighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as
the	truth.
Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you,	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
We	said	that	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God,	is	in	its	self-sufficiency.	It	is	in	need	of
nothing.
What	is	this	self-sufficiency	of	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness	is	incomprehensible.	But
we	said	that	in	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness	is	also	its	total	wisdom,	unmanifested
yet,	and	also	its	almightiness,	and	the	real	pleasure	to	manifest	itself	in	itself,	because
this	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	this	absolute,	infinite	reality	is	in	its	omnipresence.
There	is	not	any	sense	of	place,	space,	or	anything	in	which	it	isn't,	this	absolute,	infinite
beingness.
Now,	that	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness	has	in	it,	as	its	nature,	the	total	wisdom,	no
one	can	doubt.	Because	when	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness	manifests	in	itself	the	real
pleasure,	to	manifest	itself	in	itself,	that	means	to	create	worlds	of	existence,	it	must
have	the	means	by	which	these	universes	will	be	created.	The	first	manifestation	of	its
total	wisdom	is	that	from	that	moment	it	emanates	from	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness,
and	all	the	beings	co-vibrating	with	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	the	mind.
So	we	see	the	mind	now	as	the	means	by	which	the	total	wisdom	of	this	absolute,	infinite
beingness	now,	because	it	is	the	manifestation	of	the	real	pleasure	of	manifesting	itself,
manifesting	its	total	wisdom	in	creating	its	universes.	Universes.	How	many	universes?
Who	can	know?	Only	what	we	can	know	as	human	beings,	even	developing	in	us	our
nature,	divine	nature,	is	the	world	of	existence.
But	what	is	beyond	the	world	of	existence,	in	what	we	call	that	state,	which	is	no	more
any	kind	of	world,	of	beingness,	not	beingness,	nobody	can	understand.	So,	now	we	see,
what	we	know,	what	the	wise	ones	for	centuries	found	out,	is	that	this	absolute,	infinite
beingness	 is	 in	 its	 plurality.	 In	 it,	 there	 are	 billions	 and	 billions	 and	 billions	 beyond
numbers,	beings.
What	does	it	mean,	beings?	A	being	is	something	that	always	was,	is	now,	and	will

always	be	in	all	eternity.	So	we	separate	the	word	being	from	the	word	existing.	So,	now
we	see	these	beings,	gods,	it's	only	one	god,	the	father,	but	in	that	father	god	are	gods,
similar	to	it,	composing	its	totality.
So	we	see	them,	all	these	beings,	co-vibrate	to	the	will	pleasure	of	God	or	Allah,	which	is
a	sentence,	for	manifestation.	No,	not	all	of	them.	Why?	Certain	co-vibrate	and	certain
they	don't	co-vibrate.
Who	can	know?	Maybe	this	is	in	what	we	call	the	divine	plan.	If	an	architect	is	calling
certain	people	to	work	his	plans,	to	become	builders,	laborers	and	all	that,	so	it	is.	It	is
the	fellow	who	is	ruling,	controlling	the	whole	world,	the	world	of	the	existence	of	the
manifestation.
Who	knows?	Nobody	knows.	You	see,	so	that	this	will	pleasure	of	the	absolute	infinite
beingness	to	appear,	to	be	manifested.	And	I	see	now	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	as
absolute	infinite	beingness	now,	manifesting	its	will	pleasure.
And	 the	 holy	 archangels	 co-vibrating	 and	 from	 them	 emanates	 the	 mind	 super
substance.	Now,	it	emanates	the	mind	super	substance	to	all	of	them	in	the	same	way.
Now,	we	see	that	this	will	pleasure	of	manifestation,	we	can	compare	it	with	the	light.
It	 is	 the	 light.	 Life	 is	 light.	 Unless	 there	 was	 the	 light,	 the	 divine	 light	 and	 all	 the
manifestations	of	light,	there	wouldn't	be	life	manifested.
What	it	would	be?	In	the	beingness?	Who	knows?	Who	can	even	imagine	what	it	is?	So,
we	must	just	now	see	life's	light.	There	are	two	synonyms.	So,	I	see	the	light.
But	the	light	has	no	color.	Yet	the	light	is	presenting	me	all	the	other	colors.	Can	you	see
the	light	and	see	a	color	in	the	light?	No.
But	if	you	have	a	prism	and	the	light	passes	from	it,	you	will	see	the	red	light,	the	blue
light,	the	green	light,	the	yellow	light.	Now	you	see	the	light	as	colors.	So,	this	divine
light,	life,	which	is	the	nature	of	these	beings	in	the	absolute	infinite,	now	beingness,
that	light	is	colorless.
Now	they	present	their	own	color.	So,	this	classifies	these	beings	in	the	archangelic
orders.	Why?	How?	Nobody	can	say.
Not	even	they.	I	have	put	the	question	to	some	of	them.	What	makes	you	be	a	Michael
and	 you	 a	 Raphael?	 Why	 do	 you	 see	 this	 difference	 amongst	 us?	 They	 cannot	 see
amongst	them	any	difference.
But	 we	 can	 see	 this	 difference	 from	 our	 human	 point	 of	 view.	 So,	 they	 classify
themselves	in	their	archangelic	order.	And	each	order	or	all	those	beings	in	each	of	these
archangelic	orders	is	doing	perfectly	its	own	work.

Different	 work	 from	 the	 one	 archangelic	 order	 to	 the	 other	 archangelic	 order.	 Yet,
combining	this	work	of	them	is	giving	us	the	universes.	It's	giving	us	the	noetic	and	the
super	noetic	universes.
There,	 there	 is	 no	 distinction	 amongst	 them.	 In	 the	 super	 noetic	 world,	 you	 cannot
distinguish	and	say	one	of	these	beings,	you	are	a	Michael,	you	are	a	Raphael,	you	are	a
Gabriel	or	you	are	something	else.	There,	they	are	all	the	same,	similar,	colorless,	white.
Then	they	get	their	color.	Now,	what	is	the	relation	between	color	and	sound?	Now,	what
do	you	understand	by	sound?	I	think	we	don't	have	any	other	word	to	say,	except	sound.
And	we	find	the	sound	classified	in	seven	kinds	and	orders.
The	same	light.	This	is	the	relationship	between	the	light	and	the	sound.	So,	expressing
their	own	light.
These	 holy	 archangels	 are	 creating	 their	 own	 sounds.	 And	 these	 sounds,	 blended
together,	are	creating	the	universes.	So,	they	don't	have	hands	just	to	create	something.
But	they	are	vibrations.	So,	the	sounds	and	the	colors,	the	light	and	the	sounds,	are	the
means	by	which	the	holy	archangels,	first	of	all,	get	their	name.	Which	we	can	hear.
And	their	work	to	create	the	universes.	Now,	we	classify	now	these	archangels	as	far	as
we,	human	beings,	can	understand.	Intelligences.
Because	these	things	you	will	never	find	in	books.	You	have	to	live	in	these	great	truths.
And	understand	them	by	developing	your	consciousness.
Your	personality	to	higher	and	higher	levels.	And	come	in	contact,	in	touch	with	these
archangelic	orders.	They	can	teach	you	much.
Because	they	are	willing,	just	their	wisdom	to	convey	to	the	human	beings,	who	start
becoming	like	themselves.	Because	they	are	the	same	as	they.	And	of	course,	these	holy
archangels	are	not	seen	in	a	human	being.
It's	a	sinful,	now	wicked	personality.	But	they	can	see	in	that	personality	something
which	is	similar	to	them.	That	means	the	soul	spirit.
Now,	what	I	know	from	my	own	experiences,	being	in	touch	with	them.	They	are	not
souls.	They	don't	express	what	we	call	a	soul.
Though,	an	ego	they	do	express.	An	ego	means	a	kind	of	individuality,	expressing	its
own	nature.	They	have	their	archangelic	egos.
And	 these	 archangelic	 egos	 have	 never	 been	 separated	 from	 the	 absolute	 infinite
beingness.	They	have	never	left	what	we	call	the	oneness.	Now,	what	is	the	difference
between	our	ego	and	the	egos	of	all	these	archangelic	orders?	Becoming	soul	selves	who

enter	in	the	world	of	separateness.
They	have	never	done	that.	Now,	human	beings	are	spirit	soul	egos.	While	the	holy
archangels	are	simply	spirit	egos.
Not	expressing	a	soul.	Now,	the	difference	I	know,	but	it	is	difficult	to	explain	to	you.
What	is	this	difference?	There	is	a	kind,	not	of	separateness,	but	of	quality,	that	makes
them	being	in	this	order,	this	archangelic	order,	or	in	the	other	one,	or	in	the	other	one.
Though,	 they	 don't	 understand	 it.	 They	 see	 themselves	 similar.	 But	 I	 say,	 from	 our
human	point	of	view,	in	seeing	the	creation,	we	can	see	a	kind	of	difference.
Do	they	transmit	themselves	at	will,	any	moment	they	like,	from	the	one	order	to	the
other	order?	Yes,	but	for	how	long?	As	long	as	they	are	pleased	to	do	that.	And	again,
they	return	to	their	own	archangelic	nature.	That	means,	they	have	in	themselves,	these
holy	archangels,	what	we	call	the	at-one-ment.
It	is	something,	of	course,	we	cannot	understand.	How	they	can	be	in	the	at-one-ment
and	at	the	same	time	in	their	own	nature?	At	least,	I	don't	understand	it	myself,	but	it	is
so.	Why	I	cannot	understand	it?	Because	I	am	in	the	world	of	separateness	also.
Being	a	soul,	a	human	ego.	Now,	are	they	wiser	than	we	are?	Now?	Of	course,	they	are
now.	Definitely.
Now,	they	are	all	the	archangels,	in	all	the	archangelic	orders,	most	wise.	Because	they
perform	their	work	according	to	their	nature.	Having	before	them	the	divine	plan	and
their	tasks	to	do	in	a	perfect	way.
And	in	perfect	cooperation	amongst	them.	Because	they	are	most	wise	now.	Most	wise	in
their	work	to	create	the	universes.
Of	course,	the	universes	are	ruled	by	this	total	wisdom.	First,	of	the	absolute	infinite
beingness	and	all	the	beings	in	it.	Now,	when	I	say	absolute	infinite	beingness,	I	mean
the	locus.
The	 manifestation,	 the	 expression	 of	 the	 total	 wisdom	 and	 the	 all-mightiness	 of	 the
infinite	reality.	So,	now,	our	nature,	as	spirit	egos,	and	their	nature	also,	as	spirit	egos,	is
observation.	Now,	it	is	difficult	to	understand	what	I	really	mean	by	observation.
Can	you	call	it	perfect	concentration?	At	the	same	time,	knowing.	We	don't	have	words
just	to	express	that.	But	our	nature	and	their	nature	is	what	we	call	observation.
We	have	it	as	our	nature	in	the	human	being.	But	we	have	to	express	it	and	develop	it
when	we	develop	in	ourselves	our	inner	real	nature.	That's	why	you	don't	understand
what	is	perfect	observation.

But	this	perfect	observation	from	their	side	is	that	that	produces,	presents	the	total
wisdom	with	no	mistakes.	They	never	make	mistakes,	the	holy	archangels,	in	their	work.
Because	it	is	their	nature	and	it	is	in	them.
Of	course,	I	say	words	cannot	express	these	conditions	of	life,	especially	of	the	holy
archangels.	Now,	these	holy	archangels	are	creating	their	elementals	as	we	create	our
elementals.	But	the	elementals	of	the	holy	archangels	are	perfect,	creating	elementals.
There	 is	 nothing	 wrong	 in	 that,	 in	 their	 work.	 And	 the	 elementals	 of	 these	 holy
archangels,	of	these	super	intelligences,	are	what	we	call	the	angels.	And	the	nature
spirits.
These	 nature	 spirits	 are	 most	 wise	 who	 can	 see	 it.	 In	 their	 manifestation,	 in	 the
phenomena	of	life,	they	supervise	and	they	live	in	them	also.	Because	I	am	telling	you,
every	phenomenon	of	life,	in	the	vegetable	kingdom,	also	in	the	metals.
In	 the	 earth,	 in	 the	 rocks,	 in	 the	 crystals.	 Every	 phenomenon	 of	 life	 has	 in	 it	 its
supervising	 nature	 spirit,	 which	 is	 most	 wise.	 Most	 wise	 in	 itself	 or	 manifesting	 the
wisdom	of	the	ruling	super	intelligence	behind	it,	which	is	one	of	the	archangelic	orders.
Nobody	can	know.	But	what	we	can	know	is	that	there	is,	even	in	their	manifestation,	in
the	vegetable	kingdom,	in	their	manifestation,	even	in	the	animal	kingdom,	is	perfect
and	most	wise.	But	we	say,	we	have	just	to	exercise	our	divine	nature	of	observation,
using	the	mind	now,	as	right	thinking,	to	distinguish	and	understand	this	total	wisdom.
And	what	we	see	that,	even	the	cross	material	world,	our	world	we	are	living	in	now,
which	is	the	lowest	manifestation	of	life,	in	it,	it	is	the	total	wisdom.	I	say	by	observation,
because	I	like	to	see	these	things.	When	you	develop	your	consciousness	to	higher
levels,	and	especially	to	the	self-consciousness,	you	can	come	in	contact	and	in	touch,
not	only	with	these	elementals,	what	we	call	the	archangels,	the	nature	spirits,	and	the
angels,	but	also	with	your	own,	what	we	call	elementals,	especially	what	I	will	call	human
angels,	the	good	elementals.
And	 you	 can	 control,	 even	 dematerialize,	 so	 in	 yourself	 and	 in	 the	 others,	 those
elementals	I	will	call	human	demons.	But	it	needs	much	work,	training,	and	especially	at
all	times,	manifesting	a	perfect,	shall	I	call	it	concentration,	or	observation.	Better	call	it
observation,	to	observe	everything.
Nothing	will	escape	your	attention,	and	nothing	will	be	left	without	exhausting	your
thought	in	understanding	what	everything	is	and	exists.	Now,	we	said	that	the	mind,
these	angels,	and	nature	spirits,	are	using	in	their	total	wisdom,	what	we	call	in	the
vegetable	 kingdom,	 sensitivity.	 What	 I	 call	 it	 in	 the	 animal	 kingdom,	 sensibility	 and
instinct.
There	you	will	find	the	total	wisdom.	How	can	you	observe	this	total	wisdom?	Now,	in	the

vegetable	 kingdom,	 studying,	 observing,	 bushes,	 even	 the	 rose	 bushes,	 everybody
knows	what	is	a	rose	bush,	how	to	eat	it.	You	see	the	thorns	on	it.
Why?	Why	thorns	on	this	bush?	And	on	many,	many,	many	other	bushes	you	see	thorns,
small,	big,	bigger,	even	just	like	nails.	Thorns.	Who	decided	to	place	those	so-called
thorns	on	the	bushes?	What	for?	So	that	the	animals,	the	animal	kingdom	will	not	be
able	to	destroy	them	and	eat	them.
Now,	studying	the	cacti,	the	kingdom	of	the	cacti.	Oh	my	God,	you	will	be	wondering	to
see	the	beauty	of	those	cacti,	their	thorns,	many	kinds	of	thorns	on	it,	according	to	the
degree	of	their	protection.	You	will	be	amazed.
Now,	 these	 nature	 spirits	 now,	 giving	 to	 those	 phenomena	 of	 life	 we	 call	 cacti	 and
bushes,	do	they	enjoy	the	life	in	the	sensibility	way	and	in	the	instinct	way	of	living?
They	 must.	 Can	 we	 human	 beings	 come	 in	 touch	 with	 these	 nature	 spirits	 and
understand	 how	 intelligent	 they	 are?	 Yes,	 when	 you	 develop	 in	 yourself	 your	 self-
consciousness,	not	yet	the	self-superconsciousness,	you	can	come	in	contact	with	these
nature	 spirits,	 provided	 you	 can	 come	 in	 contact	 with	 the	 ruling	 archangel	 and	 the
angels	above	them.	So,	can	come.
Do	they	understand	us?	No,	this	is	the	point.	Is	a	nature	spirit,	now	people	are	calling
them	gnomes,	fairies,	and	many,	many	other	names.	Are	they	intelligent	to	understand
us?	Now,	again	I	speak	of	my	own	experiences.
Yes,	 they	 are,	 and	 they	 are	 very,	 very	 wise.	 These	 nature	 spirits	 and	 the	 angels
controlling	this	kingdom	of	life	in	the	world	of	existence.	If	you	show	them	love,	do	they
love	you?	Now,	I	am	speaking	about	the	vegetable	kingdom.
Yes,	they	do.	Of	course	they	love	you.	Now,	there	was	a	time	I	had	about	300	kinds	of
cacti,	and	I	loved	them,	and	I	could	communicate	with	them.
They	are	nature	spirits,	who	are	willing,	they	enjoyed	my	love	to	them.	They	were	giving
love	to	me.	Now,	there	is	a	kind	of	cactus,	very,	very	sensitive	cactus.
With	small	thorns,	but	if	something	touches,	they	pierce	immediately,	and	they	become
like	hooks.	Is	that	what	you	call	them?	This	kind	of	cactus.	When	somebody	touches
anything,	touching	it,	especially	a	human	being	with	his	hands,	it	pierces	immediately.
They	become	hooks,	and	they	give	him	a	kind	of	poison,	they	have	in	it.	Of	course,	you
cannot	move	away	your	hands,	before	having	in	your	hands	all	those	thorns,	like	hooks.
And,	of	course,	that	cactus	cannot	live	anymore.
It	dies.	I	have	succeeded	to	have	that	cactus.	Myself,	the	prince	Petros	of	Greece,	in
Amazonian	places,	was	sending	me	some	of	the	seeds,	and	I	have	succeeded	to	have	it.

And	from	books	I	knew	what	kind	of	cactus	it	was,	that	kind	of	cactus.	It	was	not	very
big,	it	was	as	big	as	a	neck,	with	many,	many,	many	little	things	on	it.	Well,	I	went	to	a
fellow	one	day,	who	was	selling	flowers.
They	have	seen	it	big,	as	big	as,	just	much	bigger	than	an	orange,	say	a	watermelon.	He
told	me,	look	here,	don't	touch	it,	because,	according	to	the	books,	it	has	these	hooks.
When	you	touch	them,	they	enter	in	you,	they	give	you	poison	and	that.
I	started	laughing.	He	said,	are	you	sure?	I	said,	yes!	This	is	in	the	books,	and	they	are
very,	very	careful.	And,	of	course,	if	they	enter	in	your	heart,	it	will	be	swollen	in	your
heart.
Then	that	cactus	will	die.	I	got	it	like	that	in	my	heart.	He	said,	oh,	what	are	you	doing?
All	this	will	be	in	you.
I	said,	are	you	sure?	Yes.	Well,	I	love	it,	and	it	loves	me,	and	nothing	wrong	will	happen.
Because	when	it	enters	there,	many	hooks,	I	told	them	with	my	mind,	no,	I	love	you,
leave	it,	don't	do	that.
Of	course,	they	obey.	And	after	caressing	it,	he	was	in	despair.	Then	I	took	my	hands
away,	and	nothing	here.
I	said,	nothing!	And	that	will	not	die,	I	assure	you.	It	had	enjoyed	what	I	have	done	now,	I
said.	He	was	looking	at	me	with	suspicion.
He	said,	yes,	rightly	they	say	you	are	a	Marcus.	You	must	be	one,	he	said,	because	I
know.	I	said,	look	here,	human	beings	do	not	love	nature,	and	nature	does	not	love
them.
If	you	love	nature,	nature	will	love	you.	But	understand	nature,	and	enjoy	nature.	Now,
love,	what	is	love?	Love,	in	this	level,	in	the	cross-material	world,	love.
Do	people	love	phenomena	of	life	much	lower	than	themselves?	Say,	in	the	mineral
kingdom,	 we	 have	 seen	 the	 mineral	 kingdom,	 they	 like	 the	 nice	 stones,	 and	 the
diamonds,	 and	 everything	 as	 possessions.	 But	 what	 do	 they	 know	 of	 these	 things?
Loving	them,	nothing.	Now,	in	the	animal	kingdom,	do	these	elementals	of	the	animals,
expressing	as	their	way	of	life	what	we	call	instinct,	can	love	a	human	being?	Yes,	of
course.
Nature	is	ready	to	love	human	beings,	if	the	human	beings	love	nature.	But,	if	your
vibrations,	even	subconscious	vibrations,	you	have	in	them,	are	hostile	to	these	things,
they	 have	 to	 protect	 themselves	 from	 the	 human	 beings.	 And	 these	 human	 beings,
nearly	all	the	time,	are	destroying	this	phenomena	of	life.
Why?	Because	they	haven't	gone	beyond	the	animal	instinct	of	their	material	body.	So,

now,	we	said	all	phenomena	of	life	are	around	us,	in	the	world,	in	the	cross-material
world.	They	are	expressing,	in	the	way	they	are	living,	that	use	of	the	mind	we	call
instinct.
Now,	not	the	phenomena	of	life,	but	the	nature	spirits	and	the	angels,	in	them	and
behind	them,	are	expressing	it.	How	do	we	understand	that?	Because	our	human	bodies
have	this	instinct.	So,	our	human	bodies	are	living	instinctively.
There	is	nothing	in	the	human	body	beyond	the	instinct.	The	instinct,	of	course,	we	have
it.	And	many	doctors	have	distinguished	it.
You	touch	somewhere	here,	you	will	see	the	skin	just	growing	without	even	you	noticing
it.	They	made	this	experiment,	the	doctors.	So,	our	human	material	body	and	all	the
bodies	of	the	animals	in	the	animal	kingdom	have	the	instinct.
The	instinct,	which	is	governed	by	what?	By	whom?	Definitely,	by	the	holy	archangels
who	are	creating	the	cross-material	body	and	are	sustaining	it.	Of	course,	our	human
material	 body	 is	 under	 the	 order	 of	 the	 holy	 archangels	 of	 the	 elements	 who	 have
created	 it,	 are	 creating	 in	 it	 blotches,	 organs,	 many,	 many,	 many	 things	 and	 are
sustaining	it.	So,	we	said	that	the	life	of	our	material	body	is	different	from	our	life	as	a
petty,	time	and	place	personality.
But	 living	 in	 that	 material	 body,	 a	 human	 being,	 a	 common	 human	 being,	 without
knowing	anything	about	that	human	body	and	to	know	something	you	must	get	a	book
of	anatomy	and	see	and	look	at	it	and	wonder,	but	do	I	have	all	these	organs	in	my
body?	Clamps	and	everything.	Who	is	looking	after	all	those	organs	in	your	body	to	keep
your	 body	 in	 good	 health	 so	 that	 you	 will	 live	 in	 it?	 So,	 by	 observation	 and	 study,
concentration	and	using	the	mind	properly,	you	can	know	the	truth	concerning	this	site
of	creation,	concerning	our	human	bodies.	So,	if	you	do	that,	in	the	course	of	time,
concentrating	 and	 entering	 in	 yourself,	 one	 day	 you	 will	 find	 yourself	 in	 conscious
contact	with	the	archangels	who	are	working	in	your	body.
You	are	angels	in	the	heavens,	as	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ	said.	Are	they	hostile	to	us?
Enemies?	No.	These	holy	archangels	of	the	creation	know	nothing	except	love.
They	love	a	human	being,	being	good	or	even	wicked.	They	are	working	according	to
their	nature	in	the	divine	plan,	without	using	the	mind	to	reason	or	to	take	a	part	in	our
life.	And	I	gave	an	example	the	other	day.
Suppose	you	see	two	people	quarreling.	Very,	very	common	thing	in	our	human	nature.
Don't	say	it's	a	criminality	or	there	is	a	better	man.
Both	they	have	daggers	and	they	have	weapons.	They	like	carrying	these	things	with
them.	And	you	see	them	fighting,	striking	one	another,	wounding	one	another,	very
badly.

And	others	interfere	and	separate	them.	And	you	find	both	of	them	wounded.	You	take
them	to	home,	to	hospital,	to	look	after	the	wounds.
Of	course,	we	know	that	in	the	bodies	of	these	two,	the	saint	and	the	criminal,	the
archangels	do	not	care	about	it.	Their	work	is	to	close	down	wounds,	join	broken	bones,
and	restore	health	to	that	fellow.	Then	you	say,	well,	the	same	way	a	saint	wounded	will
be	healed,	also	a	criminal	will	be	healed.
From	the	side	of	the	holy	archangels,	there	is	not	a	preference.	Because	they	know	only
to	love	and	to	work,	creating	and	sustaining	the	material	bodies.	Now,	I	say,	they	don't
care	so	much	about	the	quality	of	the	personality	of	a	human	being.
No.	What	they	care	for	is	to	love	the	entity,	the	human	being,	seeing	the	child	growing.
When	one	grows,	just	to	their	measures,	they	rejoice.
That's	all	they	can	do.	Now,	so,	these	archangels	in	our	bodies	have	feelings.	Feelings.
Emotions.	Yes,	they	do	have,	but	not	like	our	feelings.	They	are	very,	very,	very	different.
They	are	feelings	from	our	feelings.	In	what?	In	quality.	They	have	feelings.
Do	they	hate?	No.	Love?	Yes.	But	in	a	way,	not	easily	to	be	understood	by	human	beings,
who	had	harbored	in	their	hearts	complaints	and	hatreds.
With	much	difficulty,	I	could	just	attune	myself	to	their	feelings	of	love.	With	much	effort,
not	to	have	in	myself	the	least	complaint	against	anybody.	Do	they	avoid	us?	Us,	the
human	 beings,	 the	 petty,	 tame	 and	 blessed	 personality	 of	 a	 man,	 with	 that	 heavily
wrapped	personal	self,	with	the	veils	of	darkness	we	call	egoism.
They	don't	want	to	see	that.	They	avoid	that.	But	they	are	in	constant	contact	with	our
souls	and	with	our	spirit.
They	are.	So,	to	contact	these	archangels,	you	must	develop	in	yourself	such	a	kind	of
consciousness	 to	 the	 level	 of	 the	 self-consciousness,	 and	 later	 to	 self-
superconsciousness.	And	they	rejoice.
Coming	to	you	as	slaves,	you	are	slaves.	Why	do	this?	Archangels	keep	themselves	far
from	the	petty	personality	of	a	human	being	today.	Because	the	human	being	today,	as
he	is	now,	is	so	egoist	and	so	stupid	to	think	that	he	must	dominate	over	everything.
He	will	dominate	over	God.	Dominate	over	the	archangels.	Bargaining	in	a	church	with
God,	just	with	a	counter-paradise.
They	are	so	vulgar.	The	human	beings	today	call	themselves	pious	and	good	people.
Even	in	those	people	who	think	they	are	good,	existence	is	asking,	getting,	seizing,
catching,	dominating.

This	is	what	is	placing	a	human	being	in	the	world	of	separateness.	Everything	must	be
around	their	petty,	stupid,	little	time	and	place	personality.	It	is	of	so	much	importance.
To	them,	to	nature,	to	God,	no.	So,	the	duty	at	least	of	the	seekers	of	the	truth	is	to	find
the	truth	concerning	life,	their	own	life,	who	they	are,	how	they	should	behave	in	nature,
in	the	lowest,	say,	status	of	nature,	to	be	worthy,	to	be	given	more,	to	live	consciously
and	then	self-consciously	to	higher	realms	in	the	world	of	existence	of	nature.	Now,	I	say,
by	observation,	studying	around	you,	phenomena	of	life,	of	the	mineral	kingdom,	of	the
vegetable	kingdom	and	of	the	animal	kingdom,	you	will	see	the	total	wisdom.
As	 I	 said,	 sensitivity,	 sensibility	 and	 instinct,	 you	 cannot	 find	 anything	 more	 in	 this
kingdom.	Seeing	them,	even	if	you	see	in	all	this	kind	of	manifestation	of	the	mind,	the
total	wisdom.	You	will	be	wondering,	but	they,	this	phenomenon	of	life,	cannot	develop
what	you	call	conscious	thinking.
They	don't	express	a	self.	You	have	cows,	all	cows	are	cows.	No	cow	will	say,	I.	And	no
sheep	will	say,	I,	I	am,	or	any	dog.
No.	This	I-ness	is	what	we	call	the	selfhood.	And	this	I-ness,	the	ego,	is	God.
This	I-ness	of	the	human	beings	and	of	the	archangels	are	placing	these	beings	now,
because	we	are	beings,	we	are	human	beings,	because	the	animals	all	around	us	are
existing	entities.	They	are	not	beings.	They	don't	have	any	soul.
Now,	we	see	the	difference,	the	way	of	life.	Their	life	is	instinctive	and	nothing	more.	The
instinct,	even	in	its	total	wisdom	as	instinct,	is	offering	them	to	the	human	being.
The	human	being	is	free	to	use	the	mind	in	the	right	or	in	the	wrong	way.	No	animal	can
use	it	in	the	right	or	in	the	wrong	way,	the	mind.	Instinct	is	instinct,	nothing	more	than
that.
So	now	we	see	the	human	beings.	Now,	here	is	our	difference	from	the	holy	archangels,
our	brethren	in	Allah,	in	God.	Using	the	mind	in	the	wrong	way,	we	are	different	from
them.
They	use	the	mind	emanating	from	them	in	the	right	way,	in	creating,	sustaining,	loving,
expressing	love.	Now,	we	borrow	the	mind.	We	are	granted	the	mind	we	are	using	in
expressing	ourselves	as	thinking	personalities	from	God.
Of	course,	definitely,	the	mind	is	not	emanated.	It	doesn't	come	out	of	the	personality	of
a	human	being.	It	has	to	be	granted	by	God.
While	it	emanates,	I	said,	from	the	archangels,	from	the	legos	of	the	archangels.	When	a
human	being	reaches	the	highest	levels	of	its	own	nature,	going	beyond	the	instinct	and
ruling	 now	 the	 instinct,	 knowing	 the	 subconsciousness,	 cleaning	 it	 in	 its	 personality,

gaining	again	its	consciousness,	the	self-consciousness,	can	the	mind	emanate	now	from
him	or	from	her?	Yes,	definitely,	it	can	emanate.	But	not	before.
Before,	we	have	to	ask	this	mind,	and	it	will	be	granted	to	us	as	our	daily	bread.