

1
Our	Father	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name,	thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions,	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.	And	lead	us	not
into	temptation,	but	deliver	us	from	evil.
For	 thine	 is	 the	 kingdom	 and	 the	 power	 and	 the	 glory	 forever.	 Absolute,	 infinite
beingness,	God.	Everlasting	life,	love	and	mercy.
Manifesting	yourself	in	yourself,	as	your	total	wisdom	and	your	almightyness.	Enlighten
our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.	Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards
you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	What	is,	was	always,	and	will	always	be,	is	the	absolute	infinite	reality	we	call
God.	The	absolute	infinite	beingness.
The	absolute	infinite	beingness	is	self-sufficient.	What	is	the	absolute	infinite	beingness?
According	 to	 the	 old	 Egyptian	 language	 and	 the	 Aramaic	 language,	 it	 is	 something
human	intelligence	cannot	reach.	The	only	thing	we	can	know	about	this	absolute	infinite
beingness	is	that	in	its	plurality	there	are	being	and	existing	billions	and	billions	and
billions	of	beings	similar	to	the	absolute	infinite	beingness,	whom	I	call	them	God.
And	in	addition,	in	this	absolute	infinite	beingness	is	the	pleasure	and	will	of	manifesting
itself	in	itself,	as	this	absolute	infinite	beingness	is	omnipresent	everywhere	in	the	sense
of	space	and	place.	So,	what	we	can	say	more	is	that	when,	and	this	was	always,	there
was	not	any	time,	it	was	not,	when	this	absolute	infinite	beingness	vibrates	in	itself	this
will	pleasure	of	manifestation,	how?	To	manifest	what?	Itself	as	life	and	its	total	wisdom
and	 all-mightiness.	 When	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness	 vibrates	 in	 itself,	 this	 will
pleasure,	it	manifests	itself	also,	not	as	a	second	God.
As	the	locus,	or	the	manifestation,	as	the	absolute	infinite	now	beingness.	You	have	in
one	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	and	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.	We	said	that
something	to	be	manifested	must	have	its	duality.
So	we	see	the	duality	of	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.	The	absolute	infinite	beingness.
And	 beings	 in	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness	 co-vibrating	 to	 this	 will	 pleasure	 of	 the
absolute	infinite	beingness	to	manifest	itself	and	themselves,	where?	In	themselves.
Their	 omnipresence	 causes	 the	 emanation	 from	 God	 and	 from	 them	 of	 the	 super
substance	of	the	mind.	The	means	by	which	everything	will	be	created.	What	is	this
absolute	infinite	beingness	manifesting	now?	Definitely	the	total	wisdom	in	the	divine
plan.
That	means	everything	is	predestined.	And	rather	speaking	humanly,	well	organized.	So

that	it	will	manifest	the	total	wisdom	and	the	all-mightiness.
And	so	we	see	now	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.	The	manifested	now	God	and	the
beings	in	it	classifying	themselves	in	their	orders,	in	their	archangelic	orders	according
to	the	work	they	are	destined	to	perform.	Becoming,	as	we	might	say,	the	all-lords	of	the
elements.
Elements?	 What	 are	 the	 elements?	 Definitely	 the	 super	 substance	 of	 the	 mind	 in	 its
various	ways	of	manifestation.	It's	an	element.	Everything	is	the	mind.
So,	 as	 human	 beings	 now,	 the	 enlightened	 ones,	 through	 these	 past	 centuries	 could
trace	and	find	studying	what	we	call	the	worlds	of	existence	now.	Of	the	manifestation	of
the	total	wisdom	and	the	all-mightiness.	They	have	traced	and	studied	seven	heavens.
Seven	states	of	manifestation	in	the	worlds	of	existence.	Are	there	only	seven	heavens?
As	far	as	human	intelligence	can	reach?	Yes,	seven	heavens.	There	may	be	more.
For	other	beings,	except	the	human	spirit,	soul,	beings.	Who	knows?	We	cannot	limit	just
the	absolute	infinite	beingness	and	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	only	to	the	measures
of	our	human	intelligence.	So,	but	enough	to	study,	if	possible,	the	seven	heavens.
Who	has	spoken	about	the	seven	heavens	to	the	human	beings	in	those	centuries	who
have	 passed	 until	 now?	 Was	 it	 imagination?	 But	 again,	 what	 is	 imagination?	 Was	 it
fantasy?	Was	there	any	proof	about	it?	Because	just	something	which	has	not	a	practical,
a	real	proof,	besides	being	dangerous,	I	call	it	stupid.	And	of	course,	these	wise	ones,
these	enlightened	ones,	through	these	centuries,	in	all	the	places	of	the	world,	of	the
planet,	 have	 described	 approximately	 the	 same	 things.	 Why	 not	 exactly	 the	 same
things?	It	was	their	ability	of	seeing,	understanding	and	interpreting	things	they	have
seen.
Of	course.	Now,	the	Lord	Buddha	has	spoken	about	the	other	worlds.	Confucius,	Lao
religion,	which	means	the	way.
Many	other	religions.	The	old	Egyptians	knew	much	about	the	other	worlds,	especially
the	so-called	psychical	worlds,	in	the	lower	states	of	being.	And	many	others.
So,	that	was	not	a	blind	belief,	but	I	would	say	rather	a	subconscious	experience.	Now,
let	us	see,	to	study	the	human	being.	Because	if	we	don't	know	who	we	are,	what	we
are,	what	are	our	abilities,	we	cannot	understand	something	real.
So,	we	must	first	study	the	human	being,	ourselves,	and	then	study	also	the	worlds.	I'll
put	it	more	simply.	We	must	know	as	much	as	we	can	about	what	we	call	the	microcosm,
the	human	being,	and	the	mesocosm,	or	the	macrocosm,	which	is	the	world	of	existence,
and	of	beingness,	and	of	beingness.

Because	nothing	can	exist	unless	in	it	is	not	the	reality,	the	beingness.	So,	we	must
study	now	our	nature,	and	the	worlds	we	are	living	in	them,	in	these	worlds.	Is	that	easy?
It	can	be	easy	if	we	are	not	drunk	by	matter,	and	by	desires,	and	by	illusions.
And	all	the	time	living	even	less	than	subconsciously.	Instinctively,	maybe.	But	I	don't
want	to	give	to	the	human	being	just	that	very	low	form	of	expression.
Though	some	of	them	are	living	instinctively,	instead	of	living	even	subconsciously.	Now,
I	have	two	things.	To	study	ourselves,	what	we	are,	and	study	what	are	the	worlds	in
which	we	are	living	in,	consciously,	subconsciously,	or	not	being	aware	of	them.
So,	following	the	teachings	of	the	All-Enlightened	Ones,	we	say	there	are	seven	worlds	of
existence.	 And	 the	 Son	 of	 God,	 the	 God-Man	 Joshua	 Emmanuel,	 dehumanized	 and
incarnated	directly	as	God	and	Man,	came	to	testify	the	truth	about	that.	He	has	spoken
about	the	seven	heavens.
And	he	described	them,	of	course	to	his	disciples	and	to	the	others	in	his	time,	he	made
full	descriptions	of	these	worlds.	But,	who	could	just	write	about	them?	And	make	people
understand?	And	with	what	words?	How	did	Joshua	Emmanuel	succeed?	Succeeded	just
to	 impress	 his	 listeners,	 and	 especially	 his	 disciples,	 disciples,	 healers	 and	 others,	 to
know	about	these	worlds,	the	heavens.	Of	course,	it	is	ridiculous	to	speak	to	them	about
these	seven	heavens	without	proving	their	existence	to	them,	and	showing	them	how	to
approach	these	heavens.
And	 what	 did	 Joshua	 Emmanuel	 say	 about	 these	 seven	 heavens?	 He	 called	 them
kingdoms.	He	said	the	kingdoms	of	the	heavens	are	in	your	spirit,	soul,	ego	being.	Which
means?	How?	How	are	they	in	us,	in	our	ego,	spirit,	soul	being?	Of	course,	that	is	a
macrocosm.
Now	I	say	what	is	written	in	the	Old	Testament.	And	God	said,	vibrated	his	will-pleasure
to	his	holy	archangels,	co-vibrating	to	his	will-pleasure	of	manifestation,	after	creating
the	worlds	of	existence.	Let	us	create	man	to	our	image	and	according	to	our	likeness.
That	means	to	be	just	as	we	are.	To	be	a	god.	Even	as	a	human	being,	be	a	god.
Not	an	animal.	And	so,	they	say	the	holy	archangels,	the	lord	of	the	elements,	and	the
holy	father,	had	created	the	human	being,	calling	him	Adam.	So,	Adam	was,	is,	and	will
always	be	the	human	being,	the	image	and	the	likeness	of	God.
That	means	a	macrocosm	exactly	similar	to	the	macrocosm.	A	microcosm	exactly	the
same	as	the	macrocosm.	I'll	make	it	more	plain.
As	the	macrocosm	has	the	gross	material,	heavenly	bodies,	a	human	being	has	his	gross
material	 body.	 And	 as	 God	 has	 his	 ethereal	 world,	 the	 human	 being	 has	 his	 etheric
double,	 the	 ethereal	 part	 of	 his	 material	 body.	 And	 as	 God	 has	 created	 the	 four-

dimensional	 world,	 the	 so-called	 psychical	 world,	 the	 human	 being	 has	 his	 so-called
psychical	body.
As	God	and	the	holy	archangels	had	created	the	noetical	world,	a	human	being	has	his
own	noetical	body.	And	thus,	the	almighty	God	and	the	holy	archangels	had	created
worlds	beyond	the	noetical,	the	noetic	and	spiritual	worlds.	The	human	being	has	his	or
her	noetical	body,	noetic	and	its	spiritual	self.
So,	the	human	being,	from	this	point	of	view,	is	the	image	and	the	likeness	of	God.
Comparing	the	microcosm	with	the	macrocosm.	We	are	using	the	Greek	words,	not	other
words.
Now,	in	which	other	way	are	we	the	image	and	the	likeness	of	God?	As	the	Holy	Father
has	in	it,	because	God	is	not	male	or	female,	maybe	it's	possible.	As	the	Holy	Father,	the
source	of	life,	has	in	it	billions	and	billions	and	billions,	beyond	numbers,	beings.	We	call
it	its	plurality.
So,	 the	 human	 being	 also	 has	 his	 or	 her	 plurality,	 the	 personality	 composed	 by	 the
elementals,	which	create	the	personality	of	human	beings.	As	our	material	body	has	in	it
atoms,	blood	cells,	so	our	material	body	has	its	multiplicity	as	well,	in	various	ways.	The
organs,	the	blood	cells,	the	tissues.
Many,	many	things.	So	is	our	personality,	composed,	we	said	in	previous	lessons,	by	the
elementals,	we	call	them	desire	or	emotion,	thought	forms,	or	purely	thought	forms,	and
I	call	them	also	human	demons	or	human	angels,	which	are	composing	our	personality.
So	we	see	the	similarity.
So,	a	human	being	now,	today,	living	either	in	a	civilized	world	or	in	any	other	part	of	the
planet,	 I	 don't	 see	 much	 difference.	 Because	 a	 human	 being	 is	 always	 under	 the
pressure	 of	 desires,	 illusions,	 passions,	 weaknesses,	 whether	 he	 is	 living	 in	 an
undeveloped	country	or	in	a	so-called	civilized	country.	All	people	are	under	the	same
pressure	of	illusions.
What	do	we	see	now?	That	the	human	being,	though	it	has	all	the	qualities	and	the
nature	of	the	divine	reality,	yet	he	is	not	using,	consciously,	the	bodies	given	to	him.	He
is	not	living,	as	we	say,	according	to	the	will	of	God.	And	we	see	now	the	human	beings
living	a	life	not	very	different	from	the	life	of	the	animals	around	them.
Not	 to	 say	 that	 some	 of	 them	 are	 living	 in	 still	 worse	 conditions.	 Now,	 studying	 the
personality	of	a	man,	I	said,	the	wise	ones	all	through	the	centuries	have	spoken	about
the	 soul,	 about	 the	 spirit,	 and	 about	 the	 personality	 of	 a	 man.	 Now,	 they	 mix	 the
personality	with	the	individuality.
They	were	calling	even	the	personality	of	a	human	being	as	his	soul,	calling	it	sinning
soul	and	pure	soul.	But	it's	better	for	us	to	separate	these	words.	The	soul	is	always

pure,	it's	God.
The	soul	is	spirit,	soul,	self,	pure.	And	what	some	say	and	are	calling	the	soul	as	the
personality,	because	it	is	manifesting	qualities	of	the	soul,	that	means	giving	the	sense
of	a	self,	of	a	time	and	place	self,	which	are	qualities	of	the	soul,	yet	it	is	not	our	real	self,
our	personality.	It	is	not	more	our	self	than	it	is	our	bodies,	the	material	body,	the	etheric
double,	the	so-called	psychical	body,	the	noetical	body.
The	noetic	is	rather	part	of	ourselves,	and	the	spirit,	the	spirit	is	our	self.	But	it	is	not	a
body,	it	is	rather	giving	the	sense	of	the	body.	It	is	our	human	form,	not	dressed	in	flesh
and	with	clay,	as	our	cross-material	body.
Now,	we	have	described	the	human	being	as	it	is	today.	Bodies,	so	that	they	think	to
exist	in	the	world	of	existence,	should	have	a	form,	having	its	divine	human	form,	which
is	always	in	the	total	wisdom	of	the	Almighty	and	in	His	divine	plan,	and	its	real	immortal
self,	the	spirit,	soul,	self.	The	spirit,	soul,	self.
Being	manifested,	the	spirit	enters	in	its	duality,	being	spirit,	soul,	so	that	it	will	exist	in
its	state	of	beingness.	It	is	not	necessarily	duality,	because	it	is	the	spirit,	self.	But	what
is	our	self	as	spirit,	self,	in	all	of	the	absolute	realities,	oneness,	we	cannot	know.
But	 we	 can	 know	 what	 we	 call	 our	 spirit,	 soul,	 self,	 having	 its	 human	 form.	 Brilliant,
marvelous,	divine	form.	And	I	described	it	yesterday.
What	is	the	human	form?	I	said	that	everything	to	exist,	it	should	have	a	form.	And	the
law	of	existence	is	a	beginning,	a	starting	point,	a	process,	is	that	what	you	call	it?	And
then	an	end	to	it,	or	that	end	is	the	beginning	of	some	other	state	of	existence,	which	we
can	study.	So	we	see	now	the	human	being	having	this	human	form,	dressed	in	flesh.
The	 human	 form,	 dressed	 in	 flesh,	 blood,	 and	 the	 gross	 matter,	 starting	 from	 the
spermatozoon.	 Growing,	 growing,	 growing,	 growing,	 growing,	 growing,	 growing,	 to
complete	a	circle	of	possibilities.	Not	beyond	that.
When	I	say	our	human	form,	as	spirit,	soul,	self,	is	the	complete	circle	of	possibilities.
Everything	existing	in	it.	But	what	about	the	appearance	we	had	as	human	form,	each
one	of	us,	in	our	course	of	living	in	the	gross	material	world.
And	 we	 have	 also	 the	 course	 of	 living	 in	 the	 psychic	 world.	 In	 the	 neurotic	 world.
Completing	circles,	in	circles,	bigger	circles,	and	in	bigger	circles,	of	existence.
But	enough	to	speak	about	our	circle	of	possibilities	and	existence	in	the	gross	material
world	here	on	Earth.	But	that's	not	enough	for	a	seeker	of	the	truth.	Now.
The	appearance,	we	know	it.	We	see	it.	We	see	pregnancy,	we	see	a	woman	giving	birth,
we	see	a	child	sucking	the	milk	of	his	mother,	just	crawling	on	the	ground	and	growing,

growing,	playing,	becoming	a	boy,	a	nice	girl	or	a	nice	boy,	growing	to	adults,	to	young
men	and	women	like	that.
We	can	see	the	appearance	of	a	human	being.	But	you	can	see	that	each	human	being
has	 the	 course	 of	 its	 own	 appearance.	 That	 is	 what	 I	 call	 the	 circle	 of	 each	 one's
possibilities.
Which	 is	 in	 our	 spirit,	 soul,	 self.	 There.	 Now	 it	 is	 rather	 difficult	 to	 understand	 these
things	 unless	 you	 practice	 introspection	 and	 enter	 deeply	 in	 using	 the	 mind	 as
inspiration.
We	cannot	find	better	words.	Now.	We'll	describe	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens.
Where?	Around	us.	And	around	us.	But	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	in	us.
Is	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	in	us	and	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	around	us	not	the
same?	Definitely	it	is	not	the	same.	Is	the	cross	material	world	around	us	and	our	cross
material	body	one	and	the	same?	Just	immaterial?	Yes,	but	it	is	so	different.	So	we	are
the	image	and	likeness	of	God	having	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	in	our	spirit,	soul,
being,	self	having	the	bodies	granted	to	us	by	God	and	the	total	wisdom.
That	means	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	in	us	in	our	spirit,	soul,	ego,	self	and	in	our
personality	also	we	see	it	from	down	up	now	is	our	etheric	double	which	corresponds	to
the	ethereal	world	of	the	planet.	It	is	our	so-called	psychical	body.	I	said	yes,	a	mass	of
mind	emotional	of	emotional	nature	given	to	us	to	shape	and	create	our	psychical	body.
The	 archetype	 of	 the	 earth	 of	 our	 psychical	 body	 is	 in	 the	 eco-fight	 with	 us	 holy
metaphor	the	archangel	who	has	been	eco-fight	with	us.	We	have	it	there,	the	archetype
which	exercises	much	influence	on	us	on	us.	To	whom?	To	the	personality.
To	shape	the	psychical	substance	given	to	her	to	the	archetype	through	itself	itself	as
what?	There	is	a	point	just	to	think	deeply	as	consciousness.	Now	we	touch	another	point
What	is	consciousness?	What	is	awareness?	What	can	be	one	day	self-consciousness	and
self-awareness?	This	is	what	we	study	because	by	studying	that,	understanding	that	and
exercising	that	we	enter	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	in	us,	in	our	spirit	soul-self	and
mastering	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	in	us	we	can	enter	just	by	right	to	the	kingdom	of
the	heavens	of	the	fire.	That	means	studying	the	laws	of	nature	with	our	cross-material
mind	using	our	cross-material	body	slowly,	slowly	we	can	become	the	masters	of	the
cross-material	 world	 and	 human	 beings,	 those	 subconsciously	 living	 have	 become
masters	 of	 the	 cross-material	 world	 changing	 completely	 the	 cross-material	 world
building	huge	buildings	many	things,	doing	what	not	likewise	we	do	to	the	psychical
plane	the	ethereal	plane?	No	to	the	psychical	plane	the	so-called	psychical	plane	the
second	 kingdom	 of	 the	 heavens	 is	 the	 world	 of	 emotions	 emotions	 in	 our	 so-called
psychical	bodies	in	the	psychical	world,	what	it	is?	Emotions,	of	whom?	It	is	the	mind

there	vibrating	now	as	the	real	pleasure	so	now	correspond	the	emotions	desires,	though
they	are	dirty	in	a	human	being	corresponding	the	real	pleasure	of	manifestation	so	the
so-called	psychical	world	the	49	sub-planes	or	7	planes	are	more	real	than	the	cross-
material	world	because	in	them	are	working	more	effectively	I	would	rather	say	the	holy
archangels	of	the	elements	so	we	have	the	world	next	above	it	we	will	not	mention	that
there	are	doubles	of	these	worlds	which	are	the	nautical	world	how	can	we	reach	there?
how	can	we	reach	in	the	psychical	world?	self-consciously	can	we,	unless	we	develop	in
our	personality	and	individuality	that	soul	consciousness?	no	because	entering	there	will
be	 slumbering	 like	 somnambulist	 as	 90%	 of	 the	 people	 are	 in	 the	 psychical	 world
because	the	time	we	are	living	in	the	cross-material	world	we	are	living	with	our	so-
called	psychical	body	undeveloped	in	the	so-called	psychical	world	and	with	our	mind
body	that	mass	of	mind	we	are	using	as	thoughts	in	the	nautical	world	but	how?	to	enter
is	easy	because	these	worlds	are	in	the	omnipresence	of	God	we	are	in	them,	they	are	in
us	 but	 are	 we	 aware	 of	 these	 worlds?	 Joshua	 Manuel	 de	 Christ	 said	 that	 clearly	 the
kingdom	of	the	heavens	is	in	you	he	didn't	take	out	anyone	but	not	entering	the	kingdom
of	the	heavens	is	what	counts	but	how	do	we	enter	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens?	I
have	given	yesterday	an	example	of	a	nice	park	full	of	good	flowers,	plenty	of	things
they	take	their	child	10	years	of	age	take	another	young	man,	an	adult	and	a	scientist,	a
botanologist	now,	all	of	them	enter	in	the	park	what	they	will	see?	what	the	child	will
see?	 what	 the	 adult	 will	 see	 and	 what	 the	 scientist	 will	 see?	 that	 is	 not	 the	 matter
entering	because	we	are	there	it	is	in	us,	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	is	in	us	and	we	are
in	it	but	what	counts	is	how	we	should	be	aware	of	this	kingdom	of	the	heavens	because
through	them	we	are	in	them	through	our	material	body	we	are	in	the	cross	material
world	moving	about	through	our	psychical	body	we	are	in	the	psychical	world	moving
about	like	somnambulists	sometimes	we	get	certain	experiences	we	call	them	dreams
either	good,	marvelous,	lovely	dreams	or	sometimes	nightmares	now	we	have	to	study
all	these	things	so	we	are	living	already	in	all	the	kingdoms	of	the	heavens	which	are	in
us,	in	our	bodies	and	we	are	in	them	with	our	bodies	now	what	counts	is	to	awaken	our
petty	personality	self	male	or	female	just	to	develop	it	to	the	level	of	what	I	would	say
our	 very	 permanent	 personality	 or	 our	 individuality	 our	 soul	 and	 then	 awakening
ourselves	to	those	levels	we	are	using	now	the	mind	as	consciousness	in	the	various
levels	of	development	so	what	counts	is	to	develop	in	our	present	day	personality	Maria,
Kostas,	Yannis,	Helen	develop	in	these	persons	just	that	kind	of	consciousness	now	they
are	using	the	mind	as	subconsciousness	we	have	to	study	what	is	the	subconsciousness
they	are	using	now	the	consciousness	as	waking	consciousness	to	live	self-consciously
later	where?	and	in	the	material	world	and	in	the	psychical	world	and	in	the	nautical
world	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	how	should	we	be	sure	that	this	so-called	kingdom
of	the	heavens	apart	from	our	bodies	across	material,	psychical	and	nautical	do	exist	of
course	they	do	exist	the	proof	we	have	just	to	develop	our	present	petty	personality	in
expressing	 what	 we	 call	 self-consciousness	 now	 are	 human	 beings	 now	 even	 in	 the
civilized	countries	living	self-consciously	no,	they	all	live	subconsciously	when	I	say	self-
consciously	I	mean	to	know	what	and	what	they	are	to	know	things,	what	are	desires,

what	 are	 emotions	 what	 are	 thoughts	 and	 just	 how	 to	 use	 the	 mind	 control	 desires,
emotions	see	the	reactions	in	their	personality	of	things	existing	in	the	cross-material
world	so	the	first	school	and	the	first	classes	we	have	just	to	go	through	is	the	cross-
material	world	we	should	not	expect	more	before	we	get	our	lessons	in	this	class	the
cross-material	 world	 so	 we	 should	 start	 from	 the	 cross-material	 world	 entering	 by
introspection	in	our	so-called	subconsciousness	of	our	personality	study	it,	learn	it	study
it,	learn	it	what	does	it	mean?	see	now,	using	the	mind	how	we	were	using	the	mind	and
what	kind	of	elementals	we	were	using	composing	our	personality	I	put	it	more	plainly
study	the	reactions	which	are	happening	in	us	by	receiving	presentations	from	the	other,
from	the	outside	world	through	our	senses	what	they	are	doing	in	our	personality	what
they	are	exciting	and	just	study	the	whole	course	what	is	desire?	why?	why	do	I	desire
having	that?	knowing	that	and	all	that	so	we	have	just	to	study	everything	concerning
our	life	using	the	mind	now	what	is	the	gain?	now	I	find	out	that	I	am	dual	who	is	using
it?	is	the	thinker	criticizing	the	behavior	is	criticizing	whom?	himself?	herself?	even	so
the	 so-called	 egoism	 of	 the	 present	 day	 personality	 so	 the	 first	 thing	 we	 gain	 is	 to
understand	and	realize	our	duality	it	is	the	first	thing	that	we	gain	finding	out	that	we	are
not	what	we	think	we	are	and	we	are	much,	much	more	than	what	we	manifest	as	a
personality	 tracing	 now	 our	 self-individuality	 our	 soul	 of	 course	 it	 needs	 much	 time
much,	much	time,	maybe	centuries	but	let	us	start	after	all	because	doing	nothing	you
are	 nothing	 but	 even	 a	 step	 forward	 is	 a	 step	 forward	 this	 is	 what	 we	 have	 to	 do
someday	because	how	long	we	will	be	just	under	the	illusions	of	the	cross-material	world
we	have	just	to	free	ourselves	from	the	illusions	enter	in	the	reality,	in	the	truth	behind
the	illusions	to	find	out	who	we	are	and	what	we	are	now	I	have	described	many,	many
things	and	we	cannot	do	that	unless	we	start	checking	our	way	of	living	the	elementals,
their	 nature	 and	 quality	 of	 the	 elementals	 we	 are	 creating	 their	 influence	 in	 our
personality	in	us	then	in	so	doing	we	start	separating	our	self	from	the	shadow	of	our	self
which	we	think	is	our	self	we	start	separating	our	self	from	the	limit	we	see	in	the	mirror
thinking	 that	 we	 are	 that	 self	 and	 the	 mirror	 is	 the	 cross-material	 world	 so	 it	 needs
seriousness	decision	and	observation	just	to	use	our	divine	nature	of	observing	things
and	using	the	mind	properly	now,	if	we	start	now	from	the	cross-material	world	what	will
happen?	we	see	more	clear	dreams	we	think	they	are	dreams,	they	are	not	dreams	they
are	experiences	in	the	psychical	world	what	do	we	see?	we	see	now	that	we	can	use	the
mind	in	a	better	way	reasoning	and	making	better	thoughts	the	afterthoughts,	as	people
say	 which	 are	 wiser	 than	 the	 first	 ones	 which	 means	 that	 we	 start	 developing	 our
consciousness	in	our	bodies	the	so-called	psychical	body	and	the	nautical	body	and	in
the	 course	 of	 time	 by	 introspection	 using	 our	 divine	 powers	 of	 using	 the	 mind	 as
visualization	 which	 is	 an	 art	 a	 skill	 which	 we	 must	 have	 we	 are	 developing	 that
expression	of	the	petty	time	and	place	self	to	higher	levels	transmuting	the	personality
into	the	individuality	starting	now	to	make	the	dual	self	in	a	wise	one	the	result	is	that
you	will	find	yourself	better	adapted	to	the	so-called	psychical	and	nautical	world	now
where	is	the	psychical	and	the	nautical	world?	as	macrocosm	and	how	is	our	psychical
and	nautical	body	in	them?	now,	the	psychical	world	and	the	nautical	world	and	all	the

worlds	are	not	located	in	a	certain	place	of	space	but	the	difference	is	in	the	vibrations
that	means	in	the	various	dimensions	now,	in	the	cross-material	world	with	our	cross-
material	body	and	the	senses	we	receive	representations,	impressions	and	everything	in
a	three-dimensional	way	but	the	psychical	world	is	the	world	of	the	four	dimensions	and
the	ethereal	world	of	the	planet	or	our	so-called	etheric	body	is	in	between	the	three	and
the	four	dimensions	how	just	to	study	all	that?	by	observation	and	using	the	mind	as
inspiration	and	visualization	now	can	one	live	self-consciously?	is	that	possible?	in	the
psychical	world?	definitely	if	he	starts	living	self-consciously	as	an	individuality	in	the
cross-material	world	he	will	find	himself	completely	awakened	in	the	psychical	world	in
which	 level?	 the	 psychical	 world	 is	 49	 sub-planes	 7	 planes	 in	 the	 same	 space	 giving
different	sense	of	place	according	to	the	rate	of	their	vibration	what	did	Joshua	Manuel
de	Cres	say	about	all	these	words?	because	you	read	in	the	New	Testament	but	not
accurately	as	Joshua	Manuel	de	Cres	said	because	he	said,	Joshua	Manuel	in	the	absolute
beingness	of	my	father	are	many	mansions	and	I	go	to	prepare	place	for	you	the	sense
of	place	he	didn't	say	in	the	house	of	my	father	even	the	temples	or	the	churches	he	said
in	the	absolute	beingness	of	my	father	are	many	mansions	they	go	to	prepare	place	for
you	he	said	that	in	Greek	and	in	Aramaic	now	prepare	place	for	you	how?	Joshua	Manuel
de	Cres	would	prepare	place	for	his	disciples	not	only	the	12	and	the	70	and	the	other
disciples	how?	they	have	asked	him	and	he	had	given	a	reply	that	time	he	said	yes,	by
attuning	yourself	to	me	and	myself	to	you	you	qualify	yourself	in	such	a	way	to	take	out
of	yourself	the	heaviness	which	not	allow	you	to	enter	in	those	levels	so	I	prepare	place
for	you	in	this	way	so	it	means	you	should	adapt	your	consciousness	to	mine	to	enter	in
the	oneness	so	now	describe	the	psychical	plane	it's	very	very	very	difficult	thing	to	do
suppose	somebody	could	ask	someone,	even	a	scientist	describe	me	the	cross	material
world	can	he	do	that?	just	give	certain	information	about	trees,	rocks	things	like	that	but
can	he	describe	the	cross	material	world	even	the	greatest	scientist	writing	volumes	and
volumes	of	books	no	now	just	think	how	one	can	describe	the	psychical	world	which	is	a
world	 of	 the	 four	 dimensions	 and	 explaining	 to	 you	 how	 you	 will	 understand	 being
accustomed	to	see	things	as	three	dimensional	things	here	another	great	difficulty	and
describing	things	in	the	splendor	of	the	noetical	world	much	much	more	difficult	because
this	is	the	world	of	the	five	dimensions	which	means	are	these	worlds	not	worlds	of	forms
as	we	have	the	cross	material	world	of	course	it	is