

1-	How	to	become	master	of	Time	and	Circumstances
Our	Father,	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	will	be	done,	on	earth	as	it	is
in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread.
And	forgive	us	our	trespasses,	as	we	forgive	those	who	trespass	against	us.	And	lead	us
not	into	temptation,	but	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom,	and	the	power,
and	the	glory	forever.
Who	taught	you	that?	Who	taught	you	this	kind	of	prayer?	Yes,	but	who	taught	it?	From
where	you	got	it?	This	is	the	same	prayer	at	the	time	of	Christ.	Christ	was	giving	this
prayer	in	Aramaic	and	in	Greek.	How	did	it	come	to	you?	Just	all	this	motion,	because	the
prayer	he	had	given,	Our	Father,	who	art	in	heaven,	Abed-Matei	Shmestaya,	in	Aramaic.
All	these	movements	were	given	by	Joshua	the	Christ.	And	they	have	meaning.	But	I	am
wondering	how	it	reached	to	you.
Because	it	is	the	same	prayer.	Some	other	time	we	will	do	it	in	the	Aramaic	language.
Through	these	motions.
Yes,	please.	Go	on.	You	sing,	you	sing.
No,	no,	it	was	the	prayer.	That's	okay.	We	say	that	in	the	Greek	language.
We	say	that	now	the	prayer	in	the	Greek	language.	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ,	Jesus,
was	an	Essener.	Essener	meant	Greco-Israelite.
The	language	Christ	was	speaking,	it	was	the	Greek	language	of	its	time.	And	also	the
Aramaic	language.	Now	I	say	that	in	the	Greek	language	as	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ
was	saying	it.
Father,	I	am	in	heaven.	Your	name	be	glorified.	Your	kingdom	come.
Your	 will	 be	 done,	 on	 earth	 as	 it	 is	 in	 heaven.	 Give	 us	 this	 day	 our	 daily	 bread.	 And
forgive	us	our	trespasses,	as	we	forgive	those	who	trespass	against	us.
And	lead	us	not	into	temptation,	but	deliver	us	from	evil.	Jesus	Christ	came	and	spoke.
He	said,	everything	that	happens,	happens	and	will	happen	in	the	ages.
The	spirit	of	truth.	The	treasure	of	goods	and	of	life.	And	cleansed	us	from	all	evil.
And	save	us	from	the	evil	of	our	souls.	Amen.	God	is	always	the	absolute	infinite	reality.
Whatever	is,	is	the	absolute	infinite	reality.	It	is	the	everlasting	life.	That	means	God.
But	 because	 during	 the	 past,	 past	 and	 many	 centuries,	 the	 human	 beings	 in	 their
ignorance,	they	have	created	many	false	gods.	Even	today	the	word	God	is	tempting

many	scientists	and	many	people.	Even	today	the	word	God	is	tempting	many	scientists
and	many	people.
And	because	they	need	the	word	God,	they	give	it	names	that	no	one	can	deny.	We	call
it	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.	Absolute	infinite	beingness.
What	is	the	absolute	infinite	beingness?	No	human	being	can	comprehend.	Except	that
this	absolute	infinite	beingness	is	in	its	self-sufficiency.	Need	of	nothing.
It's	life.	But	what	is	life?	Before	being	manifested,	who	can	say?	We	can	say	it	is	the	spirit
selfhood.	Another	characteristic	of	the	infinite	beingness.
The	 absolute	 infinite	 selfhood.	 The	 absolute	 infinite	 selfhood.	 Which	 means	 self-
awareness.
How	 can	 we	 be	 sure	 about	 that?	 Because	 besides	 the	 self-sufficiency	 of	 the	 infinite
beingness,	because	besides	the	self-sufficiency	of	the	infinite	beingness,	in	its	plurality,
many	 billions	 and	 billions	 of	 beings	 in	 it,	 another	 characteristic	 is	 its	 will-pleasure	 for
manifestation.	another	characteristic	is	its	will-pleasure	for	manifestation.	Which	means
selfhood.
That	means	the	absolute	infinite	selfhood.	Self-awareness.	Absolute	infinite	selfhood.
In	billions	and	billions	and	billions	of	manifested	phenomena	of	life.	In	billions	and	billions
and	billions	of	manifested	phenomena	of	life.	Absolute	infinite	selfhood.
So	 now	 we	 see	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness.	 Now	 we	 see	 the	 absolute	 infinite
selfhood.	Also	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.
Also	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 selfhood.	 In	 this	 absolute	 infinite	 selfhood,	 after	 the
manifestation	of	the	creation,	we	see	the	total	wisdom	and	the	all-mightiness.	There	is
nothing	beyond	its	control.
How	can	we	be	sure	about	it?	Even	studying	any	of	the	phenomena	of	life	in	the	material
world,	we	can	see	the	total	wisdom	of	the	all-mightiness	in	its	form,	kind,	growth.	And
the	absolute	infinite	all-mightiness	in	the	circles	of	possibilities	for	each	phenomenon.
How	 many	 billions	 and	 billions	 and	 billions	 of	 phenomena	 of	 life	 on	 the	 material	 only
plane,	the	material	plane,	is	one	heaven.
Now,	 what	 is	 the	 material	 plane?	 Everything	 exists	 in	 a	 form.	 The	 planet,	 the	 solar
system,	the	galaxies,	the	galaxies,	all	the	galaxies,	is	one	heaven.	The	mind,	matter,	and
we	 have,	 according	 to	 the	 human	 intelligence,	 seven	 heavens,	 seven	 worlds	 of
manifestation,	seven	worlds	of	existence.
So	we	see	now	two	things,	beingness,	everlasting,	eternal,	and	the	worlds	of	existence,
the	worlds	of	change,	the	worlds	in	which	we	see	this	change,	the	phenomena	of	life,	the

total	wisdom	and	the	all-mightiness,	and	I	use	now	the	word	God.	Whether	many	people
like	it	or	not,	God	is	and	exists.	He	is	absolute	infinite	beingness	and	absolute	infinite
beingness.
Er	 ist	 das	 absolute	 unendliche	 Sein	 und	 die	 absolute	 unendliche	 Seinsheit.	 And	 also
being	and	existing	as	the	Logos,	the	El	Shattai,	humanized	into	Joshua	Emmanuel	the
Christ.	No.
Before	 the	 humanization	 and	 the	 materialization	 of	 Joshua	 Emmanuel	 the	 Christ,	 that
humanized	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ,	did	not	exist.	Of	course	he	existed	in	the	total
wisdom	of	the	beingness.	What	did	he	say?	Before	the	earth	and	mountains	had	been
formed,	I	am.
So,	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ,	a	young	man	of	less	than	33	years	old,	when	he	said
that,	yet	as	El	Shattai,	the	Logos,	he	said,	before	the	earth,	the	mountains	and	anything
existing,	I	am.	Not	I	was.	I	am.
He	said,	before	the	earth	and	mountains	had	been	formed,	I	am.	Not	I	was.	I	am.
In	the	eternal	present.	The	eternal	now.	Because	at	all	times,	now	and	in	the	future	will
be	a	now.
Because	at	all	times,	now	and	in	the	future	will	be	a	now.	That	is	the	expression	of	the
selfhood.	So,	we	mentioned	about	the	first	heaven.
We	mentioned	about	the	first	heaven.	The	mind	matter.	We	spoke	yesterday	also	of	the
second	heaven.
Which	is	the	ethereal	universe.	Everything	material	has	its	ethereal	counterpart.	Every
material	thing	has	its	ethereal	counterpart.
A	 whole	 world	 of	 mountains,	 trees,	 water,	 seas,	 and	 of	 everything	 existing	 on	 the
material	plane.	Our	planet	earth	has	its	ethereal	counterpart.	Which	is	in	it,	on	it,	and
many	hundreds	or	thousands	of	kilometers	around	it.
This	 is	 the	 second	 heaven.	 Of	 our	 planet.	 I	 say,	 every	 material	 thing	 has	 its	 ethereal
counterpart.
Every	other	heavenly	body.	No,	the	third	heaven.	The	third	heaven	is	the	mind	emotion.
Which	 mistakenly	 we	 call	 it	 the	 psychical	 plane.	 This	 is	 a	 world,	 mesocosmically
concerning	the	planet,	in	the	earth,	on	the	earth,	and	around	the	earth	many	thousands
of	kilometers	away.	But	in	this	third	heaven,	of	all	the	heavenly	bodies,	each	one	has	its
own.
Never	 touching	 one	 another.	 This	 is	 the	 world	 beyond.	 Which	 by	 mistake	 we	 call	 it

psychical	world.
This	world	has	its	counterpart.	Its	ethereal	part.	Which	is	the	fourth	heaven.
Then	we	have	what	we	call	the	noetical	world.	Every	material	and	psychical	thing	has	its
noetical	and	so	our	planet.	In	the	planet,	around	the	planet,	and	everywhere	now.
All	the	heavenly	bodies	are	in	the	noetical	substance.	Now	I	have	one	word,	noetical,
everywhere,	in	the	sense	of	space	and	place.	And	now	I	have	the	sixth	plane,	the	sixth
heaven,	the	counterpart	of	this	noetical	world,	which	is	again	everywhere.
It	 is	 the	 etheric	 double	 of	 the	 noetical	 world.	 It	 is	 the	 noetic	 plane.	 And	 the	 seventh
heaven?	The	spiritual.
Spiritual.	Not	noetical.	Spirit,	Geist.
We	don't	have	any	words	in	German.	Now,	what	is	this	world?	It's	our	real	nature.	It	is
what	I	said	yesterday,	our	spirit	body.
It	is	a	world.	It	is	a	world	of	causes	and	forms.	It	is	a	world	of	causes	and	forms.
Principles	and	forms.	I	know	these	words.	By	personal	experience.
You	 cannot	 find	 all	 these	 things	 in	 books	 yet	 published.	 And	 I	 am	 wondering	 why	 all
those	who	reach	those	planes	did	not	dare	to	reveal	them,	except	Joseph	Emmanuel	the
Christ,	who	spoke	of	the	seven	heavens	in	teaching	the	Sefer	Yetzirah,	in	teaching	the
Sefer	Yetzirah,	which	means	the	teaching	on	the	creation.	So,	we	spoke	mesocosmically
now,	and	partly	macrocosmically,	concerning	the	noetical	and	the	noetic.
The	common	worlds.	Are	there	no	more	worlds?	Of	beingness?	Yes.	Of	existence?	Who
knows?	The	human	intelligence	cannot	reach	so	far.
The	human	intelligence	cannot	reach	so	far.	The	mind	ocean	is	boundless.	When	asked
by	 certain	 disciples,	 intelligent	 ones,	 about	 further	 than	 the	 seven	 heavens,	 about
further	 than	 the	 seven	 heavens,	 Joseph	 Emmanuel	 replied,	 Did	 you	 understand	 and
comprehend	the	human	and	the	material	things?	And	you	want	to	know	the	heavenly
things?	And	you	want	to	know	the	heavenly	things?	At	a	certain	time	you	will	know.
Nobody	 can	 know	 about	 the	 boundlessness	 of	 God.	 Nobody	 can	 know	 about	 the
boundlessness	of	God.	Now	again	we	return	to	the	Old	Testament,	to	the	Torah.
We	return	to	the	Old	Testament,	to	the	Torah.	It	says,	And	God	said,	vibrated	its	will
pleasure	to	the	Holy	Archangelic	Orders,	who	had	co-vibrated	with	the	Absolute	Infinite
Beingness,	the	El	Shaddai	Logos.	Let	us	create	man	to	our	image	and	according	to	our
likeness,	to	our	image,	that	means	of	all	the	heavenly	worlds.

that	means	of	all	the	heavenly	worlds.	And	according	to	our	likeness,	he	will	be	God,	as
we	are.	he	will	be	God,	as	we	are.
That	is	clear.	And	they	created	man	to	the	image	of	God	and	according	to	its	likeness.
and	according	to	its	likeness.
Which	means,	a	human	being,	as	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	said,	the	kingdom	of	the
heavens	is	in	you,	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	is	in	you,	in	your	nature.	That	means,	as	a
human	being,	you	have	a	human	body,	a	material	body.	The	first	heaven.
You	have	an	etheric	double.	The	second	heaven.	You	have	an	emotional	body.
The	third	heaven.	You	have	the	etheric	double	of	the	psychic	body.	The	etheric	double	of
the	psychic	body.
The	fourth	heaven.	You	have	a	noetic	body.	The	fifth	heaven.
And	you	will	have	the	counterpart	of	the	noetic	body.	The	noetic	body.	And	the	seventh
is	the	spirit	body.
Beyond	that	no	human	intelligence	has	reached	as	yet.	What	are	the	archangels?	Of	all
the	heavenly	orders.	Just	like	God.
Governors	 of	 all	 the	 worlds.	 Let	 us	 create	 man	 to	 our	 image	 and	 according	 to	 our
likeness.	That's	clear.
But	each	archangelic	order	got	its	own	nature.	To	work	on	the	divine	plan	according	to
God's	and	their	own	total	wisdom	and	all-mightiness.	Yet	always	speak	in	the	oneness
with	God.
If	 you	 ask	 any	 archangel	 of	 any	 order	 who	 are	 you?	 Of	 course	 he	 will	 vibrate	 in	 the
natural	way	of	its	kind	giving	no	name.	Yet	those	vibrations	give	sounds	and	you	hear
the	word	Machael.	Gabriel.
Raphael.	Urael.	This	is	their	name	by	their	vibrations.
And	if	you	put	them	the	question	do	you	know	what	is	God?	Each	one	will	say	I	am	God.
Rightly	because	they	have	never	gone	outside	of	the	oneness.	Which	means	that	all	the
archangelic	orders	are	in	atonement	with	the	Absolute	Infinite	Beingness.
Only	the	human	being	has	been	in	atonement	separated	as	a	personality	only.	Because
as	 spirit	 souls	 we	 are	 in	 the	 oneness.	 But	 as	 human	 beings	 having	 a	 name	 male	 or
female	we	think	we	have	been	separated.
Without	being	separated.	Because	we	wouldn't	live	if	we	were	separated.	Though	we	are
in	the	oneness	of	the	Infinite	yet	we	feel	separate.

Each	one	feeling	that	he	is	alone.	And	this	is	the	cause	of	the	misery	and	the	confusion
of	 the	 human	 beings.	 So	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the	 heavens	 is	 in	 our	 nature	 and	 in	 our
existence.
That's	what	Jesus	Emmanuel	the	Christ	said.	And	he	said	that	we	should	as	personalities
as	persons	enter	and	know	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	which	is	in	our	nature	in	our
spirit,	soul,	ego.	in	our	spirit,	soul,	ego.
That	means	enter	again	in	the	oneness.	Because	you	are	one	with	the	Infinite	Beingness.
So	we	have	described	now	the	microcosm.
Our	bodies	and	our	nature.	And	we	have	described	the	macrocosm	and	the	mesocosm.
The	world	of	existence	and	the	eternal	beingness.
I	think	we	made	that	clear.	Now,	Jesus	Emmanuel	the	Christ	described	the	kingdom	of
the	heavens.	Kingdom.
One	kingdom	of	all	the	heavens.	The	kingdom	of	the	heavens.	Giving	parables.
By	parables.	He	said	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	resembles	to	a	seed	of	mustard.	That's
smaller	than	the	head	of	a	pin.
In	 it	 describing	 the	 law	 and	 the	 circle	 of	 possibilities	 that	 means	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the
heavens	in	it.	He	said	it	resembles	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens.	You	plant	it.
It	gets	water.	Light.	Best	and	growth.
Becoming	a	tree.	Under	its	branches	the	birds	are	singing.	He	said	the	seed	of	mustard.
So	he	had	described	the	circle	of	possibilities.	Shall	we	say	that	the	circle	of	possibilities
is	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens?	No.	The	expression	of	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	is	in
that.
Because	the	circle	of	possibilities	has	many,	many,	many	circles	of	probabilities	around
that	little	seed.	It	is	in	the	seed	of	every	other	phenomenon	of	life.	Of	the	vegetable
kingdom.
There	you	can	see	the	total	wisdom	and	the	all-mightiness.	Nothing	can	escape	from	its
circle	of	possibilities.	Only	blind	in	the	mind	cannot	see	that.
And	this	is	only	on	the	gross	material	world.	What	about	the	other	worlds	and	the	other
kingdoms?	No.	In	the	material	world	in	the	ethereal	world	we	have	the	reflection	of	the
forms	and	the	phenomenon	of	life.
It	is	the	characteristic	of	the	mind	matter	the	form.	And	the	ethereal	world?	The	so-called
emotional	or	psychical	world	is	it	a	world	of	forms?	No.	The	characteristic	of	that	kind	of

mind	substance	is	not	the	form.
But	 it	 is	 a	 world	 of	 forms	 reflected	 by	 the	 noetical	 plane	 passing	 through	 it	 on	 the
material	plane.	So,	in	the	so-called	psychical	world	which	has	49	sub-planes	there	are
mountains	seas,	lakes	everything	that	is	on	the	material	world	and	many,	many	other
things	more.	But	that	is	not	the	characteristic	of	that	substance.
But	it	is	the	characteristic	of	the	noetical	world.	So,	in	the	noetical	world	which	is	more
light	there	is	really	the	world	of	forms.	And	in	the	noetical	world	the	world	of	causes
creating	forms	but	entering	in	one	of	the	causes'	ideas	you	can	see	anything	concerning
that	form.
In	God	you	call	it	the	eternal	now.	Unfortunately	there	are	no	words	to	convey	to	you	this
great,	great,	great	splendor	of	the	creator	to	enter	there.	You	have	by	attunement	now
of	your	personality	to	your	spirit	soul	to	enter	in	what	you	call	super	self-consciousness.
Well,	that's	possible	for	a	human	being	as	a	person	to	reach	those	states	without	losing
his	 identity	 even	 his	 time	 and	 place	 name	 or	 the	 contrary.	 Entering	 there	 you	 will
remember	all	the	names	who	had	in	the	past	and	all	the	experiences.	That's	why	you	call
it	self-super-consciousness.
Now,	I	repeat	what	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	said	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	is	in
your	nature	as	the	permanent	atom	in	which	is	your	spirit	not	Christ	the	spirit,	soul,	self
your	being	the	spirit	self	Now,	another	parable	of	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	There	is
not	was,	is	it	is	a	woman	who	had	mixed	three	measures	of	flour	had	mixed	them	and
the	three	became	leaven	eatable	began	to	grow	became	bread	what	are	these	three
measures	of	flour	and	who	is	this	woman	our	personality	mixing	the	material	body	the
emotional	 body	 and	 the	 noetical	 body	 with	 their	 counterparts	 it	 made	 life	 as	 a
phenomenon	of	the	human	being	the	human	being	so	the	personality	has	done	that	but
what	is	the	personality	now	first	of	all	in	the	personality	of	every	human	being	good	or
bad	sad	or	criminal	is	the	spirit,	soul,	life	this	is	the	woman	who	had	mixed	the	three
measures	of	flour	you	have	to	scrub	them	until	one	becomes	a	proper	human	being	but
this	 woman	 had	 to	 do	 that	 work	 to	 mix	 the	 three	 measures	 of	 flour	 which	 means
everybody	as	a	personality	has	to	work	to	mix	the	mind	matter	with	the	mind	emotions
know	them	and	control	them	just	mix	them	not	let	them	go	here	and	there	and	the	mind
now	as	thought	and	reasoning	to	create	a	reasonable	human	being	this	is	the	meaning
of	this	parable