

1-	Mastery	of	The	Holy	Mind	and	the	Life	of	the	self
Our	Father,	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions,	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	while	being	in	temptation.	Deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom,	and
the	power,	and	the	glory,	forever.
Absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.	Everlasting	life,	love,	and	mercy.	Manifesting	yourself
in	yourself	as	your	total	wisdom	and	your	almightiness.
Enlighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.	Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love
towards	you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.	Amen.
Just	a	revision.	What	is,	always,	was	always,	and	will	always	be,	is	the	absolute,	infinite
beingness.	God	the	Father.
What	 is	 absolute,	 infinite	 beingness?	 Nobody	 can	 know	 anything.	 Except	 that	 this
beingness	 is	 in	 itself	 sufficiency.	 In	 this	 absolute,	 infinite	 beingness	 are	 billions	 and
billions	and	billions	of	beings.
In	it,	it	is	the	beingness	multiplicity.	One	God.	The	absolute	beingness.
Now,	these	beings	in	the	absolute	beingness	are	similar	to	this	absolute	beingness.	In
what?	In	the	selfhood.	The	absolute	beingness	is	the	absolute,	infinite	selfhood.
Now,	in	the	absolute	beingness,	apart	from	the	self-sufficiency,	is	also	the	will	pleasure
to	manifest	itself	in	itself.	Now	we	can	see	what	we	call	the	total	wisdom.	To	manifest
itself	in	itself,	is	in	it	the	all-mightiness.
Now	we	don't	see	a	second	God.	We	see	a	manifestation	of	God.	And	God,	the	absolute
beingness	now,	we	call	it	absolute,	infinite	beingness.
Through	it	will	pass	beings	for	manifestation,	to	express	the	will	pleasure	of	manifesting
the	absolute	beingness	itself	in	itself.	Where?	Since	that	absolute,	infinite	beingness	is
omnipresent,	omniscient.	So,	we	call	now	this	expression	the	locus.
Of	course,	the	all-mightiness	of	this	absolute	beingness,	now	expressed	in	the	absolute
and	through	the	absolute	beingness,	we	call	it	the	Holy	Spirit.	Now	again,	the	Holy	Spirit
has	nothing	to	do	with	Geist.	Fortunately,	the	Germans	call	it	Heiligengeist.
It	has	nothing	to	do	with	Geist.	Geist	is	the	mind.	And	the	Holy	Spirit	is	the	absolute,
infinite	beingness,	in	expression,	of	course,	through	the	mind.
This	Holy	Spirit	will	express	its	majesty	in	its	works,	in	the	creation.	This	is	what	we	call

the	macrocosm.	The	absolute,	infinite	beingness	is	and	exists.
It	expresses	itself.	Now	we	have	in	the	macrocosm	the	universes.	Now,	the	universes,
after	the	will	pleasure	of	the	infinite	beingness	now,	to	express	itself	in	itself,	causes	the
emanation	from	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	the	locus,	and	from	all	the	similar	to	it
beings,	the	archangelical	orders,	the	emanation	of	the	mind.
Now	we	have	the	mind.	We	call	it	Geistes.	But	that's	not	the	Holy	Spirit.
It	is	the	material,	the	substance	by	which	the	universes,	all	the	universes	will	be	made.
But	who	is	going	to	make	them?	The	mind	is	the	means.	It	is	the	holy	archangels,	the
lords	of	the	elements.
Now	we	have	the	mind,	as	far	as	we	human	beings	can	understand	it	and	conceive	it,	as
super	substance,	substance,	ethereal	substance	matter,	and	matter.	Matter	is	the	mind
solid.	Nothing	exists	which	is	not	the	mind.
The	 mind	 in	 different	 vibrations,	 in	 different	 frequencies	 of	 vibrations.	 And	 we	 spoke
yesterday	about	motion	or	movement.	Call	it	whatever	you	like.
Which	is	one	of	the	characteristics	of	the	locus.	One	of	the	characteristics	of	life	now
expressed	through	the	locus.	So,	life	or	everything	living	will	have	in	it	motion	and	a
form.
Now,	the	form.	When	we	see	the	mind	as	super	substance,	in	what	I	call	it	noetic	plane,
there	the	mind	is	the	unextinguishable	light.	And	in	it	are	the	causes,	laws,	principles,
the	 radiation	 of	 this	 in	 lower	 frequencies	 of	 the	 mind,	 are	 giving	 us	 the	 forms	 now
dressed	in	the	mind.
Because	 these	 forms,	 all	 forms,	 are	 in	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness	 in	 the	 total
wisdom.	This	is	what	characterizes	the	total	wisdom.	The	emanation	from	the	principles,
from	the	laws,	from	the	causes	of	the	billions	and	billions	and	billions	of	forms.
Then	we	have	the	forms	reflected	from	the	causes,	laws,	principles	of	the	noetic	plane	as
follows	 now	 in	 the	 noetical	 plane.	 The	 noetical	 plane,	 there,	 the	 mind	 will	 call	 it
substance.	Not	super	substance.
Then	further	reflection	of	these	laws,	causes	and	forms,	we	have	them	in	what	we	call
the	psychical	planes.	Still	more.	We	have	them	in	the	ethereal	planes.
Still	more	extension.	We	have	the	material	planes.	And	the	church	and	those	wise	ones
who	 have	 formulated	 the	 various	 religions	 speak	 about	 seven	 heavens	 or	 seven
universes.
But	 maybe	 there	 are	 many	 more.	 It's	 seven	 that	 a	 human	 being	 can	 understand,
comprehend	and	express	himself	in	them.	So,	we'll	define	them.

The	 noetic	 plane	 is	 everywhere.	 The	 super	 substance	 of	 the	 mind.	 Now,	 what	 is	 the
noetical	plane?	Each	planet,	each	heavenly	body	has	its	own	now	noetical	plane.
And	in	it,	the	noetic	super	substance.	There	is	no	place	where	there	is	not	the	noetic
super	substance	of	the	mind.	But	now	we	have	the	noetical	plane	giving	us	space	as
place.
From	 this	 point	 of	 view,	 we	 can	 just	 observe	 what	 we	 call	 space.	 And	 again,	 what	 is
space?	Who	can	know	what	is	space?	A	human	being,	how	can	a	human	being	conceive
what	 is	 space?	 Unless	 we	 see	 that	 in	 lower	 vibrations	 of	 the	 mind,	 lower	 than	 the
noetical	plane,	to	the	psychical	plane,	to	see	it	more	formulated.	And	then,	we	see	it	as
solid	heavenly	bodies.
The	galaxies.	And	in	the	galaxies,	the	solar	systems.	The	planets.
Everything	is	solid	now.	Can	you	understand	life	in	this	course	existing	without	motion?
The	center	of	the	galaxy	goes	around	its	own	axis,	projecting	fiery,	huge	pieces	of	it,
according	 to	 their	 size,	 to	 their	 substance,	 nearly	 the	 same	 substance.	 The	 holy
archangels	of	the	order	of	the	Urials	are	classifying	them	in	certain	distance	from	the
mother	source.
They	rotate,	they	go	around	the	center	of	the	galaxy.	And	again,	those	big	fiery	masses,
who	are	the	suns,	will	do	the	same	thing,	project	going	around	what	we	call	the	planets.
You	know	how	many	millions	of	solar	systems	are	in	our	galaxy?	Now,	orthodox	science
has	to	say	much	about	this	thing.
Many	solar	systems.	Each	galaxy	has	its	own	solar	system.	Each	solar	system	has	its
own	planets.
Each	planet	has	its	satellite.	And	so	on.	And	how	many	galaxies	can	a	human	being	see?
With	the	means	he	has	of	seeing.
Some.	Yes.	Some	of	them.
And	all	of	them	are	in	what	we	call...	But	now,	we	understand	what	is	space	because	we
see	it	as	a	place.	That	something	is	taking	place	there.	Now,	studying	all	these	things,
we	see	that	the	macrocosm,	as	we	understand	it,	is	the	absolute	infinite	beingness,	self-
sufficiency,	and	will-pleasure	of	manifesting.
The	absolute	infinite	being,	and	now	the	locus	expressing	the	will-pleasure	of	the	infinite
beingness,	 and	 its	 pleasure,	 of	 course,	 and	 the	 pleasure	 of	 all	 those	 billions	 of
archangels,	of	the	archangelic	orders,	just	formulating	what	we	call	the	superstructure	of
the	mind	to	work	with.	They	classify	themselves	then	to	what	we	call	orders,	archangelic
orders,	lords	of	the	elements.	What	are	the	elements?	The	mind	in	various	frequencies	of
vibrations.

Then	we	see	their	work	using,	we	call	it	now	the	divine	plan,	which	is	in	the	total	wisdom
of	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness,	 of	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness.	 That's	 the
macrocosm.	 Then	 we	 see	 the	 psychical	 planes,	 each	 material	 object,	 each	 material
satellite	planet	has	a	psychical	counterpart,	has	a	noetical	counterpart,	and	is	floating	in
the	absolute,	what	we	call,	noetic	plane.
This	is	the	macrocosm.	What	is	the	microcosm	now?	Which	means	a	human	being,	we.
We	correspond	to	the	macrocosm.
The	absolute	infinite	beingness	in	us	is	our	real	self.	The	God	in	us,	our	own	nature,	as
spirit,	ego	beings.	Spirit,	ego	beings.
What	are	we	in	that	state?	Who	can	say?	And	then	we	have	this,	what	we	call,	absolute
infinite	beingness,	the	locus,	macrocosmically.	Macrocosmically.	Our	relation	is	our	self
now,	spirit	being.
And	we	have,	what	we	call,	the	expressions	of	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.	The	real
pleasure	manifested.	We	see	further	creations,	which	we	call	now,	the	noetical	and	the
psychical	planes.
In	us	is	our	soul	selfhood.	Soul,	ego	being.	Then	we	see	the	material	universes.
We	have	our	material	bodies.	So	we	are,	according	to	the	Bible	of	the	Old	Testament,	the
image	we	are	made	to	the	image	and	according	to	the	likeness	of	the	infinity.	Now,	what
are	we	as	human	beings?	We	have	just	to	analyze	that	also.
As	human	beings,	we	are	in	the	world	of	creation.	We	have	been	created.	As	everything
else	around	us	is	created.
Everything,	even	the	planets,	satellites	and	everything.	I	said,	to	exist,	we	are	in	the
world	 of	 existence	 now	 as	 human	 beings.	 Did	 we	 leave	 the	 world	 of	 beingness?	 No!
Because	the	worlds	of	existence	are	definitions	of	a	place	in	space	or	in	the	beingness
and	in	the	beingness.
We	have	not	been	separated	as	spirit,	ego	beings.	We	have	not	been	separated	as	life
itself.	As	the	everlasting	life.
But	now	we	have	the	reflection	of	our	real	self,	the	life.	We	are	living	now.	Living	beings.
So	we	must	understand	the	difference	between	life	and	living.	So,	according	to	the	Bible,
and	God,	the	infinite	beingness,	and	the	locus,	the	manifestation,	sent	to	whom?	To	the
holy	 archangels,	 the	 lords	 of	 the	 elements.	 After	 they	 have	 created	 the	 worlds	 of
existence.
In	the	first	day,	in	the	second	day,	in	the	third	day.	Then,	in	the	sixth	day	of	creation,	the
Lord	said,	in	which	language?	Of	course,	in	the	language	of	vibrations.	That	the	vibrating,

the	real	pleasure	of	manifestation,	having	in	it	the	human	being	in	the	total	wisdom,	and
the	holy	archangels	in	it,	the	absolute	infinite	beingness,	co-vibrate,	expressing	the	will
of	the	Father	as	their	own	will.
Creating.	And	so,	let	us	create	man.	A	human	being.
To	our	image	and	according	to	our	likeness.	Not	different.	To	become	the	microcosm
exactly	similar	to	us	as	the	macrocosm.
And	so,	a	human	being	is	created.	A	human	being	is	created.	Now	this	is	a	point	that
needs	much,	much	thought.
What	is	that?	That	creates	that.	Which	is	reflected	now	to	create	the	human	being.	Of
course,	we	said,	as	far	as	you	know	human	beings,	our	ego,	spirit,	being,	vibrates	as	its
own	vibrations	and	its	own	will	to	the	vibrations	of	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	and
the	absolute	infinite	beingness	to	express	the	human	form.
Wherefrom	do	we	get	our	human	form?	Why	do	we	not	get	another	form,	an	archangelic
form?	Or	any	other	form?	Because	that	is	our	nature.	The	human	form	is	not	imposed	on
us.	We	are	that	in	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	and	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.
So	we	were	always	in	the	human	form	in	the	everlasting,	unextinguishable	spirit.	Let	us
call	it	body.	Which	is	our	real	nature.
So	nobody	will	lose	its	human	nature	by	being	a	spirit,	ego,	god.	So	it	was	our	own	will
that	we	have	been	humanized	and	materialized,	incarnated.	Now	something	you	cannot
find	in	books.
I	am	telling	you	of	my	own	experiences	and	knowledge.	Our	material	body	is	built	in	the
mould,	we	call	it	our	etheric	double.	This	etheric	double	is	perfect.
It	is	the	perfect	expression	of	our	spirit,	ego	bodies.	As	the	mould	and	the	storehouse	of
the	mind	in	all	its	forms	through	which	the	holy	archangels	are	creating,	building	up	and
sustaining	 our	 material	 bodies.	 By	 introspection	 and	 knowing,	 studying	 the	 material
body,	you	will	be	wondering	at	this	marvelous	and	splendid	work	of	the	holy	archangels
of	the	elements	in	building	a	material	body	through	and	in	the	etheric	double	having	in	it
the	total	wisdom	of	the	almightyness	as	far	as	it	concerns	the	human	being.
So	our	etheric	double	is	the	reflection,	it	is	the	reflection	but	it	is	also	part	of	it,	of	our
spirit,	ego,	eternal,	everlasting	form,	human	form.	It	can	never	be	mutilated.	Maybe	an
accident	will	happen	and	our	material	body	will	be	injured	and	let	to	go	for	an	operation,
a	part	of	it	to	be	amputated	but	not	on	the	etheric	double.
The	etheric	double	is	intact	always.	Intact	in	what?	In	form.	Now	some	mystics	say	that
after	the	material	body	dies	the	etheric	double	is	dissolved.

No,	it	isn't.	And	Blavatsky	and	all	those	who	made	a	great	mistake	the	etheric	double	is
discharging	its	energy	withdrawing	in	its	own	self	the	human	form	in	our	spiritual	body.	It
is	withdrawn.
It	is	not	dissolved.	So	it	discharges	only	what	we	call	etheric	vitality	and	energy	which	is
gathered	by	many,	many	ways.	By	the	locus,	the	Holy	Spirit	and	the	Archangel	just	to
serve	to	the	Holy	Archangel	in	building	up	the	material	body.
So	the	form	and	the	force	and	the	power	in	the	etheric	double	remains	withdrawing	in	its
own	 nature	 to	 our	 spirit,	 ego	 form,	 human	 form.	 This	 far	 we	 know	 about	 the	 etheric
double.	What	about	the	psychical	body	now?	Again,	these	things	you	will	not	find	them	in
books	because	those	of	you	who	may	know	it	do	not	reveal	it.
We	will.	So	that	our	psychical	body	now	has	exactly	the	form	of	our	spirit,	ego	body
which	is	the	etheric	double	manifested.	And	through	it,	with	it,	the	Holy	Archangels	are
building	our	psychical	body,	good	psychical	body.
Now	 again,	 I	 speak	 of	 my	 own	 experiences.	 We	 have	 the	 archetype	 of	 our	 so-called
psychical	body	which	is	in	the	total	wisdom	of	the	infinite	beingness	and	which	is	held	by
our	guardian	Archangel.	Luminous,	brilliant,	splendid	psychical	body.
But	we	are	given	a	mass	of	psychical	matter.	Mind	again	demands	psychical	matter.	The
reflection	of	our	soul	to	be	humanized,	let	us	make	man.
To	become	a	man,	we	have	to	work	it	in	many,	many	incarnations	until	it	will	make	it	by
working	 it	 similar	 to	 the	 archetypes	 in	 us	 of	 course	 kept	 by	 the	 Holy	 Archangel,	 our
guardian	Archangel.	So	now	we	have	a	perfect	psychical	body	in	the	equified	Archangel,
our	guardian	Archangel.	And	we	are	given	a	mass	of	psychical	matter.
Come,	work	with	it	now.	It	is	the	same	thing	as	you	give	mud	and	clay	to	a	fellow	seeing
a	nice	statue	and	say,	now,	make	one	like	that.	Until	you	get	the	skill	to	make	a	perfect
statue.
That's	why	all	people	are	different	one	from	the	other	because	it's	different.	They	are
psychical	body.	So	on	the	psychical	body	we	have	to	work	and	not	the	Holy	Archangel.
That	means	in	our	personality	we	have	to	work.	The	Holy	Archangels	remain	neutral.
They	only	work	on	that	splendid	archetypes.
The	same	thing	happens	with	our	noetical	body.	Perfect.	Splendid.
Just	in	the	Holy	Archangel,	our	guardian	Archangel.	But	we	are	given	just	the	authority	to
use	now	the	mind	to	work	on	it	to	create	our	own	noetical	body.	So	that	we'll	make	it	so
perfect,	pure,	clean	to	transmute	it	into	the	archetypes.
It's	 the	 archetypes	 we	 call	 it.	 That's	 why	 two	 persons	 are	 not	 on	 the	 same	 level	 in

thinking,	reasoning.	So	we	have	now	our	splendid	divine	nature	in	the	Holy	Archangel
equified	 to	 us	 and	 exercising	 a	 constant	 influence	 on	 us	 how	 to	 work	 with	 that	 mind
substance	psychical	substance	and	the	mind	noetical	substance	just	to	form	and	make
our	own	now	psychical	and	noetical	bodies.
How?	We'll	make	them.	Having	in	us	our	divine	nature	we	have	in	us	the	ability	of	doing
it.	That	means	we	have	in	us	and	in	the	personality	our	soul,	ego,	self.
Having	our	soul,	ego,	self	we	project	what	we	call	the	permanent	personality	so	that
every	time	we	are	incarnated	creating	a	separate	personality	to	make	it	more	perfect,	to
coincide	with	the	permanent	personality	and	with	the	soul,	of	course.	So	a	human	being
has	to	work	for	its	deification.	Now,	are	we	going	to	become	something	we	are	not	now?
As	soul,	ego,	spirit	beings?	No,	we	are	gods.
But	as	human	beings	a	time	and	place	based	personality	we	are	not.	And	we	have	to
work	on	it	to	disentangle	that	personality	from	the	influences	only	of	the	outside	world
entering	 in	 our	 nature	 in	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the	 heavens	 which	 is	 in	 us	 so	 that	 we	 will
transmute	this	personality	to	our	soul,	ego,	self.	This	is	what	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ
said	 the	 perishable	 will	 become	 imperishable	 and	 the	 mortal	 will	 become	 immortal
because	in	nature	it	is	immortal	but	in	expression	it	isn't	because	our	present	personality
is	changing	every	moment.
Our	material	body	is	changing	every	moment	and	our	psychical	and	nautical	bodies	are
changing	every	moment.	And	when?	When	it	will	not	be	changed	and	purified?	Christ
gave	a	parable,	Joshua	Emmanuel.	A	woman,	he	said,	got	three	measures	of	flour.
She	mixed	them	up	in	such	a	way	that	three	of	them	became	living.	Is	that	the	word?
What	does	it	mean?	Which	is	that	woman?	The	personality	changing	three	measures	of
flour.	 The	 material	 body,	 the	 psychical	 and	 the	 nautical	 it's	 matter,	 substance,	 super
substance	of	the	mind	the	three	measures	of	flour	mixing	them,	working	with	them	till
three	of	them	became	living.
That's	 what	 Joshua	 Emmanuel	 the	 Christ	 meant.	 So,	 that	 woman	 or	 our	 present
personality	has	to	do	the	work	to	transmute	herself	and	the	bodies	into	the	divine	nature
which	is	our	spiritual	body	form	which	is	intact	there	but	we	have	to	get	back	to	our	real
nature.	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	gave	also	the	parable	of	the	lost	son.
Everything	 is	 stated	 properly.	 But	 it	 remains	 for	 us	 to	 understand	 what	 the	 God-man
meant	by	what	he	was	saying.	Now,	we	know	we	have	I	would	rather	prefer	to	say	we
are	our	etheric	table	because	in	it	is	our	real	nature	the	human	form,	the	mould	in	which
the	holy	archangels	will	build	up	our	material	bodies.
The	material	bodies,	as	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	says	is	the	temple	of	God	of	our
self,	 our	 ego-self	 being	 to	 live	 in	 it.	 And,	 we	 have	 now	 given	 the	 mind	 a	 psychical

substance	the	mind	as	no-ethical	substance	to	work	with	it	and	make	our	own	kind	of
time	 and	 place	 self	 perfect,	 pure	 to	 coincide	 with	 our	 real	 nature	 our	 ego-spirit-self.
Somebody	would	say,	but	what	for?	Why?	Had	been	allowed	just	to	cast	a	shadow	of	our
divine	nature	being	what?	To	create	a	human	being,	ourselves	enter	in	it	consider	this
human	being	as	our	self	it	is	our	self	and	it	isn't	it's	both.
Why?	What	for?	Again,	he	gave	the	parable	of	the	talents	he	gave	it	so	that	we	even	as
spirit,	ego	beings	gain	experience	of	the	worlds	and	in	the	worlds	of	existence.	I'll	give
an	example,	a	very	poor	example	my	own	example	because	I'm	very	awkward	in	giving
examples	myself	never	mind.	Suppose	you	are	a	good	architect	you	know	everything
you	have	at	the	university	you	can	sit	on	your	desk	and	make	what	you	call	them,	the
plans	or	the	blueprints	you	know	everything	you	can	just	sit	and	even	being	expert	in
visualization	what	you	have	put	on	the	paper	just	live	in	it	see	it	the	rooms	everything,
the	 corridors	 and	 everything	 you	 are	 an	 expert	 now	 architect	 that's	 different	 from
coming	down	get	the	mud	and	the	clay,	the	iron	water	and	everything	and	order	the
servants	come	on,	let	us	build	it	and	see	it	now	materially	that's	another	pleasure	it's	not
enough	 just	 knowing	 it	 is	 living	 in	 it	 Why?	 It's	 the	 real	 pleasure	 of	 manifestation	 we
cannot	understand	more	and	really	myself	I	don't	understand	it	I	am	sincere	but	so	it	is
so	 it	 is	 so	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness	 in	 its	 divine	 plan	 giving	 to	 the	 beings
everlasting	eternal	beings	in	itself	one	of	the	beings	is	ourselves,	our	spirit,	ego,	self	and
also	 the	 holy	 archangels	 expressing	 the	 real	 pleasure	 in	 creation,	 in	 manifestation
building	universes	living	forms	phenomenal	life	around	us	Why?	They	know	why	it's	also
building	 our	 bodies	 to	 live	 in	 it	 we	 call	 it	 the	 divine	 plan	 I	 can	 repeat	 nobody	 can
understand	why	and	what	is	this	divine	plan	except	that	to	gain	experience	to	become
masters	of	matter	masters	of	the	mind	substance,	ether	and	the	masters	of	the	nautical
mind,	super	substance	to	become	expert	there	is	no	other	just	purpose	in	it	besides	our
life	our	whole	life	is	that	living	in	a	material	body	prepared	for	us	by	the	holy	archangels
to	live	in	it	not	by	right	by	mercy	because	why	it	has	been	given	to	us	we	know	so	little
about	 our	 material	 bodies	 they	 are	 caring	 about	 it	 yet	 we	 develop	 in	 it	 a	 kind	 of
personality	 time	 and	 place	 personality	 given	 the	 mind	 as	 substance	 and	 as	 super
substance	 as	 emotion	 and	 as	 thought	 to	 work	 with	 it	 to	 gain	 experience	 again	 I	 say
Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ	gave	the	parable	of	the	talents	there	is	a	purpose	in	it	to	work
and	make	them	more	has	been	given	to	us	the	material	body	the	etheric	double	the
psychical	so	called	body	the	nautical	body	to	develop	them	how?	now	we	come	to	the
main	point	how?	the	material	body	we	are	using	it	or	I	rather	say	we	make	very	bad	use
of	it	the	material	body	others	care	about	it	others	build	it	others	keep	it	in	good	order
now	we	as	present	the	personality	are	expressing	emotions	desires	feelings	we	have	to
study	them	to	check	them	to	control	them	to	change	them	living	subconsciously	we	have
to	live	consciously	that	means	by	studying	and	knowing	the	nature	of	our	desires	of	our
feelings	studying	our	weaknesses	entering	in	our	so	called	subconsciousness	we	have	to
work	 in	 it	 understand	 what	 is	 a	 desire	 what	 is	 an	 emotion	 what	 is	 a	 feeling	 check	 it
control	it	change	it	definitely	the	feelings	are	not	ourselves	though	we	think	we	are	the

feelings	this	is	the	great	mistake	they	are	not	our	feelings	ourselves	because	we	can
change	them	we	can	see	them	we	can	replace	them	we	have	to	make	use	now	of	the
thought	 to	 raise	 our	 so	 called	 waking	 consciousness	 to	 a	 more	 how	 call	 it	 conscious
consciousness	 a	 super	 consciousness	 better	 self	 consciousness	 check	 our	 thoughts
compare	the	thoughts	with	the	emotions	don't	think	it	is	an	easy	work	to	do	it	is	difficult
because	 all	 the	 time	 that	 devil	 we	 call	 the	 personal	 egoism	 will	 interfere	 and	 I	 am
satisfied	with	that	I	like	these	emotions	I	like	this	way	of	thinking	and	you	find	that	you
are	not	the	egoism	of	the	personality	this	is	the	most	precious	lesson	you	get	I	am	not
the	egoism	of	my	personality	I	am	strong	I	am	the	willpower	of	my	real	self	while	my
personality	which	I	make	the	mistake	to	think	it	is	mine	it	is	rather	expressing	a	kind	of
unreasonable	obstinacy	and	not	right	thinking	so	we	have	now	the	right	thinking	and	the
way	we	were	thinking	the	way	we	are	thinking	as	egoistic	persons	was	leading	us	all	the
time	into	many	many	troubles	pain	despair	it	formulates	our	way	of	living	the	way	we
are	living	while	we	are	the	life	and	not	the	way	of	living	we	were	living	I	am	living	living
as	everybody	else	that's	my	nature	now	how	is	my	way	of	living	as	a	personality	all	of	us
live	the	same	but	all	of	us	are	not	living	in	the	same	way	of	living	which	is	our	emotions
our	weaknesses	our	thoughts	our	intentions	you	have	to	check	that	now	here	is	the	point
checking	all	that	you	find	that	you	are	not	all	that	because	you	can't	control	them	you
can't	change	them	you	are	not	the	psychical	body	and	you	are	not	the	material	body	and
you	are	not	also	the	ethical	body	because	you	are	master	of	the	mind	as	thought	after
experiencing	and	checking	the	emotions	and	everything	this	leads	you	to	a	very	precious
conclusion	the	mind	or	geist	is	not	the	holy	spirit	the	mind	or	geist	is	not	me	it	remains	I
am	using	to	express	myself	in	a	certain	way	what	you	find	more	than	I