

1-	Out	of	the	Labyrinth	and	into	the	light	I
Now,	we	have	two	ways,	nature	and	ourself.	What	is	a	human	being	now?	We	are	human
beings,	but	what	is	a	human	being?	They	said,	starting	a	man	or	a	woman,	the	life	in
their	bodies,	we	know	what	is	a	woman	or	a	man	in	their	bodies,	in	their	material	bodies.
But	what	about	the	character?	Can	you	know	all	male	or	all	female	persons	by	studying
Mary	or	George?	No.
Now,	we	have	to	study	what	is	the	self	in	a	personality.	You	have	to	study	now	this	kind
of	self,	colored,	not	bright	color,	but	colored.	Study	that.
And	start	to	separate	what	is	common	and	what	is	personal.	Now,	this	is	interesting	us
now.	We	leave	nature	around	us	for	the	time	being,	though	a	seeker	of	the	truth	is	doing
both.
By	observation,	studying	and	using	the	mind,	he	is	studying	everything	taking	place
around	him.	Because	unless	he	will	do	that	on	the	material	plane,	he	will	not	just	have
that	tendency	of	observing	things	in	the	other	planes.	Don't	think	by	studying	a	book	or
yoga,	just	knowing	that	there	are	centers	on	the	material	body,	or	rather	on	the	etheric
double	of	the	material	body,	called	chakras.
We	call	them	centers	of	energy.	And	opening	them,	and	this	and	that,	you	will	be	self-
conscious	in	the	psychical	plane.	Nothing	more	misleading	and	stupid.
Because	I	have	seen	many,	many	people	who	happen	to	get	a	book	on	yoga	from	this,
trying,	as	they	say,	to	wake	up	their	chakras,	who	became	neurasthenic.	We	are	getting
many,	many	letters	for	the	day.	Oh,	it	has	opened	the	Kundalini,	or	that,	and	that,	and
that,	and	that.
And	 what	 I	 see	 is	 forms	 of	 schizophrenia.	 These	 things	 lead	 to	 schizophrenia	 and
neurasthenia.	Not	that	these	centers	do	not	exist,	they	do	exist,	but	it	is	under	the
authority	of	the	holy	archangels	of	the	creation,	doing	the	whole	work.
And	the	seekers	of	the	truth	should	be	serious	to	observe	this	creative	work	in	their
bodies,	and	then	understand	and	cooperate	with	them.	And	not	just	try	to	violate	the
laws	of	nature.	So,	it	is	by	observation,	introspection,	and	using	the	mind	in	the	proper
way	that	you	can	find	yourself	self-conscious	in	the	psychical	plane.
And	make	what	we	call	exosomatosis,	meaning	knowing,	having	the	self-consciousness
independent	from	the	material	body,	and	not	by	other	means,	which	are	leading,	I	said,
to	 neurasthenia.	 So,	 these	 are	 the	 means	 we	 will	 be	 using.	 Our	 divine	 nature	 of
observation,	and	learning	how	to	use	the	super-substance	of	the	mind,	the	greatest	gift
given	to	human	beings	by	the	Father	God,	so	that	we	just	see	the	truth	and	proceed	now
with	reverence.

Because	nature,	even	the	material	plane,	for	a	true	seeker	of	the	truth,	is	a	church,	a
temple	of	God,	and	should	live	just	in	a	serious	way	of	studying	and	understanding	the
ways	of	the	absolute	infinite	beingness,	if	God	is	tempting	some,	the	creators,	and	the
creator.	So,	what	is	the	duty	of	every	reasonable	human	being?	And	what	human	beings
calling	themselves	intelligent	and	reasonable	today	are	doing?	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ
spoke	about	all	these	things.	He	said,	what	is	the	nature	of	a	human	being	now,	as	a
man	or	a	woman,	being	born,	growing,	growing,	growing,	and	what?	In	growing,	as	a
man	or	a	woman,	in	their	environment,	in	their	family,	in	their	home,	in	their	society,	are
to	 do	 to	 increase	 within	 them	 that	 feeling	 of	 possessiveness,	 catching,	 getting,	 and
calling	that	and	that	thing	their	own?	Now,	by	observation,	we	will	find	out	what	creates
this	feeling	of	ownership	and	enslaving	the	mind	in	this,	I'll	call	it	tendency,	not	to	say
desire.
You	must	understand	the	difference	between	these	two	words.	In	this	way,	we	start	to
study	the	character	of	the	human	beings,	not	only	one,	all	of	them,	because	all	of	them
are	under	the	same	influences,	under	the	same	impressions,	living	today.	So	we	have
just	to	say,	what	is	desire?	What	is	the	human	body?	We	have	to	study	the	human	body.
By	studying	the	human	body	and	the	total	wisdom	of	the	Holy	Archangels	of	Creation
working	in	our	material	body.	Just	study	this	thing,	a	book	on	anatomy.	What	do	we	find
out?	That	we	are	not	the	human	body.
Because	the	human	body	of	any	human	being,	man	or	a	woman,	is	the	same	always.	The
same	is	the	body	of	a	woman	with	the	bodies	of	every	other	woman.	It	is	the	same	the
body	of	a	man	with	the	bodies	of	every	other	man.
It	is	shorter,	taller,	that	plays	no	difference.	You	know	what	is	a	male	person?	You	know
what	is	a	female	person?	This	is	the	common	thing	in	human	beings.	But	now	we	are
coming	to	another	branch	of	study.
I	don't	say	that	we	will	leave	that	behind,	not	study	it.	The	same	way	we	are	studying
what	 is	 going	 on	 in	 the	 nature	 all	 around	 us.	 That	 our	 nature,	 divine	 nature	 of
observation,	we	should	use	it	any	moment.
To	use	it	in	what	we	call	waking	consciousness.	Now,	and	just	get	the	habit	of	using	it
during	the	time	your	present	personality	is	sleeping,	going	to	the	other	dimensions.	So,
what	is	now	desire?	And	what	is	this	desire	doing?	Is	desire	always	a	sin?	A	necessity?
You	have	just	to	study	it.
You	should	not	just	jump	from	impression	to	impression	and	reach	to	wrong	conclusions.
You	have	to	study	the	nature	of	desire.	What	it	is?	It	is	our	so-called	psychical	body.
We	find	our	psychical	body.	And	what	we	find?	That	we	are	using	this	psychical	body	all
the	time,	subconsciously,	without	knowing	its	existence.	But	using	it.

And	being	under	its	influence.	So	we	have	to	wake	up.	Know	who	we	are	and	get	control
of	this	psychical	body.
But	you	cannot	do	that	unless	you	have	mastered	already	the	physical	body.	Studying
what	is	the	physical	body.	Who	am	I?	And	what	I	am	in	that	material	body,	using	it.
So	I	shall	study	the	nature	of	other	bodies,	of	the	psychical	body.	So	I	have	to	just	step
by	step	using	the	observation	and	the	reasonable	thinking	as	meditation,	to	know	as
much	as	I	can	know	of	the	relative	truth	concerning	the	matter	I	am	studying.	So	a
seeker	of	the	truth	should	study	what	is	desire.
You	say,	what	is	desire	now?	I	am	telling	you.	Both	an	angel	and	a	devil.	And	who	is
making	that	angel	a	devil?	You.
By	becoming	a	devil,	you	make	it	a	devil.	But	being	or	becoming	an	angel,	it	is	an	angel.
So	the	desire	is	a	mirror	in	which	you	reflect	your	own	self.
But	now	we	come	to	another	confusing	point.	Which	self?	But	is	that	image	I	see	in	this
mirror	of	desire	really	my	self?	Because	we	will	not	extend	on	this	matter	now.	I	say,	by
studying,	I	find	that	similar	to	this	kind	of	expression	of	a	personality	I	call	desire,	I	see
that	combined	to	it	is	the	way	of	thinking.
And	you	find	out	that	you	have	been	misusing	subconsciously	this	divine	gift	of	the	mind
as	thought	and	slaving	it	to	the	desires.	That	is	making	the	desire	a	devil.	Under	the
reasonable	thinking	of	a	reasonable	being	it	is	a	blessing.
It	is	a	necessity	and	not	a	curse.	Then	I	find	out	that	apart	from	what	I	call	desire,	now
studying	the	psychical	body	which	has	its	form	because	everything	to	exist	must	have	a
form.	I	see	that	I	find	myself	in	another	body.
What	we	call	the	nautical	body.	The	mind	body.	I	can't	just	use	the	word	mind	body
because	in	mind	body	I	have	also	the	nautical	not	only	the	nautical	body.
The	higher	mental	as	some	people	call	it.	So	we	have	just	to	study	its	nature	and	what	it
is.	What	is	the	mind?	Not	now	the	mind	as	the	super	substance	but	as	I	made	it	part	of
myself.
My	mind.	I	got	a	drop	of	this	mind	from	the	ocean	of	the	mind	they	have	colored	it	now
in	a	hot	way.	Of	my	present	personality.
My	weaknesses,	my	vices,	my	virtues.	Many,	many	things.	So	now	myself	using	again
observation	and	the	right	thinking	by	coloring	the	mind	and	seeing	what	is	behind	the
mind	as	my	desire.
What	do	I	find?	My	own	personality.	Now	here	is	the	critical	point.	My	own	personality.

But	who	is	doing	it	and	what	is	that	my	present	day	personality	as	mind	and	emotion?
Then	you	separate	yourself	from	that.	I	was	making	the	mistake	to	think	that	that	kind	of
personality	the	sinful	personality	the	transgressing	personality	is	not	the	reality	myself.	I
am	something	else.
Then	you	feel	dual	while	you	are	one.	You	make	the	mistake	that	your	so-called	egoism
of	the	personality	is	yourself.	But	it	is	not	yourself.
Now	 you	 are	 reasoning.	 Now	 we	 give	 exercises	 which	 make	 you	 by	 introspection
observation	and	meditation	to	separate	this	petty	call	it	selfhood	which	is	the	present
day	personality	from	your	real	self.	Your	real	majestic	divine	self	which	is	God,	you.
Not	God	in	you,	but	you.	Then	it	is	the	time	to	understand	who	you	are	as	a	soul	self.
Now	studying	the	personality	you	can	study	your	petty	self	as	a	man	or	as	a	woman	in
the	phenomenon	of	life.
But	now	reaching	this	point	finding	your	soul	self	there	is	no	sex	there.	When	they	have
asked	Christ	once	Who	are	you?	He	didn't	say	I	am	Joshua,	Emmanuel	I	am	a	human
being.	He	had	shown	how	to	think.
He	said	to	the	Jews	in	Aramaic	I	am	what	I	am.	And	in	Greek	because	he	was	speaking
the	Greek	language	being	a	sin	himself.	The	mother	language	of	Christ	was	Greek	and
Aramaic.
He	was	speaking	as	the	soul	and	the	soul	of	a	male	or	a	female	person	has	no	sex.	But
it's	 an	 archangel.	 It	 is	 that	 kind	 of	 self	 we	 should	 find	 as	 being	 ourselves	 that	 self
disentangling	 our	 real	 self	 from	 the	 image	 we	 see	 in	 the	 mirror	 of	 emotion	 and	 of
thought.
And	what	is	God	doing	to	us	every	few	years?	We	see	as	ourselves	a	distorted	image	of
ourselves	in	the	threefold	mirror	of	matter,	emotion	and	thought.	You	look	at	it.	You	have
to	clean	that	mirror	to	see	yourself.
You	see	it	much	distorted.	You	see	it	now	like	a	monster.	Looking	there	you	make	the
mistake	to	see	I	am	that.
The	desires,	the	weaknesses,	the	emotions	the	thoughts	on	this	or	that	matter	like	that.
God	is	breaking	those	threefold	mirrors	every	few	years.	Is	God	evil	or	most	merciful?
Most	merciful.
To	make	us	sleep,	see	better	and	clearer	and	then	giving	us	another	mirror	and	another
mirror	and	another	mirror	to	make	it	more	clean.	We	have	to	make	it	clean	to	see
ourselves	reflected	in	it	properly.	That	means	incarnation.
So,	what	is	the	real	gain	of	a	seeker	of	the	truth?	Man	or	a	woman?	To	find	the	real	self.

To	find	the	self	reflected	on	the	mirror	and	not	make	the	mistake	that	the	image	in	the
mirror	is	the	self.	And	one	of	the	aims	of	the	seeker	of	the	truth	is	just	to	annihilate	his
personal	egoism	because	unless	the	personal	egoism	is	exterminated	annihilated	the
real	self,	the	son	of	the	real	self	will	not	arise.
And	you	will	make	the	mistake	that	you	are	desires	you	are	thoughts,	you	are	emotions.
When	I	gave	this	lesson	before	some	years	to	the	inner	circle	a	fellow	who	is	a	poet	told
me,	you	know,	you	have	destroyed	everything	good	in	me.	I	said,	why?	You	deprived	me
of	my	emotions	and	of	my	thoughts.
What	remains	to	me?	I	said,	your	own	self	remains	to	you.	Just	find	that	self	and	you	will
understand	that	you	are	not	losing	anything.	You	are	gaining	everything.
Because	you	think	what	you	are	gaining	just	because	you,	the	self	as	the	sun	shine	there
and	you	know	you	get	notice	of	what	you	see.	Be	the	sun	yourself	and	you	can	have
everything.	Know	what	is	what	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	said	the	kingdom	of	the
heavens	which	is	in	us.
He	described	them.	And	what	did	he	say?	Seek	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	and	you	are
losing	everything.	Did	he	say	that?	No.
Seek	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	and	everything	is	yours.	It	is	a	great	mistake	to	think
that	reaching	that	stage	it	means	throwing	away	everything.	It	is	just	clear	that	you	have
different	now	things	to	love.
Higher	things	to	love.	That's	true.	And	things	that	now	are	interesting	you	will	not	mean
much	to	you.
But	reaching	that,	everything	is	yours.	Seek	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	and	everything
will	be	added	to	you.	Everything.
And	you	have	to	select.	Suppose	you	are	a	child,	a	boy	and	you	have	marbles	playing
and	playing	and	playing	and	collecting	stamps	and	getting	stamps	and	you	make	a	nice
book	with	collection	of	stamps	and	you	grow	up.	You	don't	need	anymore	collecting
stamps.
Now	you	are	collecting	money.	Banknotes.	Pieces	of	paper	which	are	called	money.
For	me	it	is	not	much	of	a	difference.	But	there	is	a	difference	for	the	people.	Collecting
stamps	and	now	collecting	money.
But	as	one	day	this	fellow	now	collecting	money	and	banknotes	and	everything	those
stamps	mean	nothing	to	him.	Believe	me	someday	when	you	have	the	heavenly	things
all	these	things	on	the	material	plane	will	mean	nothing	to	you.	So	you	are	not	losing
anything.

You	are	gaining	everything.	Well,	am	I	losing	all	this?	Who	is	just	depriving	a	millionaire
to	get	again	the	book	of	his	stamps	and	enjoy	his	stamps	if	he	wishes	to?	Nobody.	You
don't	need	to	throw	away	things.
You	can	have	everything.	What	you	are	losing	is	the	fascination	of	things.	And	what	did
the	Lord	Buddha	Bodhisattva	Buddha	was	teaching?	Disentangling	yourself	from	the
illusions.
But	do	now	Buddhists	know	the	truth	that	this	great	Lord	and	Master	had	taught	the
world?	Disattachment?	I	don't	believe	that	all	of	them	know	it.	As	all	Christians,	most	of
the	Christians	have	lost	the	sense	and	the	truth	in	Christianity	so	the	Buddhists	have	lost
most	of	them	the	real	teaching	and	sense	of	Buddha.	Because	if	you	know	the	truth
behind	 the	 teachings	 of	 both	 the	 Lord	 Buddha	 the	 Enlightened	 One	 and	 Joshua	 the
Christ,	the	God-man	it's	the	same	thing.
The	same	truth	revealed.	A	fellow	Buddhist	one	day	taught	me	Oh,	pity	you	are	not	a
Buddhist,	sir.	And	you	are	a	Christian.
I	said,	who	taught	you	I	am	not	a	Buddhist?	He	said,	are	you	a	Buddhist?	I	said,	definitely
I	am.	There	may	be	better	Buddhists	than	you	are.	But	are	you	not	a	Christian?	Of	course
I	am	a	Christian.
But	now	I	don't	see	any	difference	in	the	truth.	Truth	is	not	the	monopoly	of	certain
people	colouring	it	according	to	their	ideas.	So	the	seeker	of	the	truth	should	see	the
truth	as	it	is.
What	is	the	truth?	God	is	love.	Just	under	this	light	you	can	see	clearer	everything.	When
the	sun	of	love	rises	you	can	see	everything	nicely.
If	there	is	darkness	and	you	go	with	a	candle	in	your	hand	a	coloured	candle,	you	will	see
things	in	a	different	way.	In	your	own	way.	So,	wisdom	comes	to	a	human	being	every
human	being	if	he	or	she	wishes	to	see	the	truth	by	observation	making	reasonable	use
of	the	mind	concentrating	on	the	things	one	wants	to	study	but	freeing	himself	at	that
time	from	all	illusions	and	attachments	on	things	influencing	him	or	her.
That	means	taking	away	the	personal	egos.	What	do	I	call	this	work?	The	system	of	the
seekers	of	the	truth	the	science	of	sciences	because	the	highest	science	is	to	know	the
self	the	expression	of	the	self	the	local	self	and	our	place	in	that	kind	of	selfhood	and	just
clean.	Now	somebody	says	shall	we	give	up	our	so-called	personal	self,	the	egoism?	I	say
no.
Annihilate	its	expression	because	in	it	to	exist	as	egoism	in	a	person	as	part	of	it	as
yourself	you	are	that	and	you	are	not	What	you	are	not,	take	it	away	and	live	what	you
are.	Now	it	is	difficult	to	understand	that	before	exercising	separating	the	real	self,	its
nature	from	its	expression.	Tomorrow	the	lesson	will	be	more	on	the	use	of	the	mind.

I	will	make	an	exercise.	Relax	completely	your	material	body	Relaxing	it	shows	that	you
are	a	god	and	that	material	body	of	yours	given	to	you	feeling	you	are	living	in	it	is	yours
now	make	it	yours.	The	holy	archangels	creating	this	material	body	and	everything	most
wisely	in	the	material	body	will	not	object,	calling	it	yours	but	deserve	to	be	the	master
of	this	material	body.
Feel	that	you	are	in	the	material	body	relaxing	it	completely	absolute	relaxation	you	are
breathing	 now	 breathing	 deeply	 but	 comfortably	 you	 can	 select	 the	 rhythm	 of	 your
breathing	breathe	deeply	and	the	time	you	are	breathing	feel	you	are	in	the	lungs	but	at
the	same	time	you	are	feeling	you	are	in	the	lungs	you	can	feel	you	can	be	everywhere
in	your	body	the	air	and	the	oxygen	is	going	only	in	the	lungs	in	and	out	but	something
else	you	are	feeling	that	is	your	etheric	double	the	whole	body	the	time	now	you	are
breathing	and	the	air	is	confined	only	in	the	lungs	getting	in	and	out	you	can	feel	the
whole	body	be	in	your	whole	body	in	the	fingers,	in	the	face,	in	the	feet	everywhere	feel
now	you	are	in	the	body	and	feel	that	is	yours	also	this	is	the	etheric	double	you	are
concentrated	on	the	aesthetic	or	feeling	giving	ether	it	is	not	only	the	air	and	oxygen
that	matters	but	also	the	etheric	vitality	you	are	using	it	subconsciously	now	you	can	use
it	consciously	just	feel	in	your	body	you	are	breathing	oxygen	etheric	vitality	and	God,
Life	you	are	breathing	etheric	vitality	and	through	the	lungs	but	at	the	same	time	you
breathe	it	with	your	whole	etheric	double	feeling	it	you	feel	it	this	is	the	super	substance
of	the	mind	uncolored	now	what	I	tell	you	is	rather	difficult	and	it	needs	much	practice
but	I	will	say	that	and	feel	it	we	are	in	God	God	is	everywhere	in	us	out	of	our	bodies	and
in	our	bodies	feel	it	I	don't	say	him	feel	God	as	the	highest	intelligence	to	which	you	can
attune	yourself	enjoying	total	wisdom	its	almightyness	its	total	love	that	he	understands
and	he	feels	what	you	are	feeling	now	it	is	stupid	to	believe	that	the	one	who	gave	you
the	eyes	to	see	is	not	seeing	the	one	who	gave	you	the	ears	to	hear	is	not	hearing	the
one	who	gave	you	that	handful	of	matter	you	call	brains	to	think	with	is	not	thinking	you
can	talk	to	him,	he	is	talking	to	you	just	listen	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ,	the	God	man
spreading	his	hands	out	to	the	Essenes	was	saying	I	am	the	Lord	you	are	God	in	you	you
are	God	in	you	you	are	beingness	and	the	locals	were	saying	I	am	the	Lord,	you	are	God
in	 you	 you	 are	 a	 human	 being	 self	 just	 enjoy	 that	 human	 beingness	 self	 try	 to
understand	what	is	life	what	is	you	are	soul	in	life	and	free	yourself	from	the	false
impression	that	you	are	an	isolated	personality	having	a	name	of	a	man	or	a	woman
Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	said	you	are	God's	offsprings	of	the	infinite	Father	find	your
immortal	everlasting	self	life	those	who	believe	in	me	and	know	me	will	taste	no	death
but	will	live	in	eternity	breathe	deeply	comfortably	feel	your	heart	and	clean	it	to	reflect
love	nothing	except	love	love	to	all	human	beings