

1-	Our	Material,	Psychical,	Noetical	body
Our	Father	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done,	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our
sins,	as	we	forgive	those	who	sin	against	us.
And	lead	us	not	into	temptation,	but	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom,	and
the	power,	and	the	glory,	forever.	God	of	life,	love	and	mercy,	enlighten	our	minds	to
understand	your	truth.
Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	Today,	we	will	speak	more	about	the	bodies.
We	are	using	already	our	material	body,	our	so-called	psychical	body,	and	our	noetic
body.	Of	course,	all	wise	men	in	past	centuries,	not	only	knew	about	the	existence	of
these	bodies,	but	they	were	using	them.	They	were	making	good	use	of	them.
St.	Paul	mentions	these	three	bodies.	You	can	find	this	in	the	New	Testament,	the	letters
of	St.	Paul.	We	have	a	material	body.
We	have	a	psychical	body.	He	is	calling	it	a	psychical	body	also.	And	a	noetic	body,	we
say,	St.	Paul,	is	a	spiritual	body.
But	to	separate	it	from	the	spirit,	we	call	it	a	noetic	body,	instead	of	a	spiritual	body.
Because	spirit	is	the	absolute	beingness.	So,	the	material	body	of	everyone	is	the	same.
Bones,	the	skeleton,	flesh,	blood,	the	various	organs.	Studying	the	material	body	of	a
man,	a	male	person,	we	know	what	is	the	body	of	a	male	person.	Studying	the	body	of	a
woman,	of	a	female	person,	we	know	what	are	the	bodies	of	all	female	persons.
So,	the	material	body	of	man,	male	or	female,	is	built	by	the	Holy	Archangels	and	the
Holy	Spirit	according	to	the	divine	plan.	What	is	the	divine	plan	for	the	human	being?
What	we	call	the	idea	of	man	or	the	heavenly	man?	God,	the	Locust,	as	God-man,
honoured	this	idea	of	man.	And	we	hear	Christ	calling	himself	the	son	of	man.
He	didn't	mean	son	of	Joseph,	because	he	was	not	the	son	of	Joseph,	he	was	the	son	of
God.	But	he	called	himself	the	son	of	man,	honouring	the	idea	of	man,	the	heavenly
man.	This	was	misunderstood	by	many,	thinking	that	Christ	had	brothers	and	sisters,	by
a	father	and	a	mother.
Now,	the	bodies,	the	material	bodies,	of	all	human	beings	are	alike,	in	form	and	in
constitution,	from	the	same	stuff	and	substance.	And	the	body,	the	material	body	of	a
man	and	a	woman,	is	built.	All	the	bodies,	the	human	bodies	are	built.
Now,	the	psychical	body,	the	so-called	psychical	body,	of	course,	that	psychical	body	is

under	the	same	laws.	Are	the	psychical	bodies	of	all	human	beings,	male	and	female,	or
male-female,	the	same?	No.	Definitely	no.
Because	you	cannot	find	two	people	expressing	the	same	present-day	personality.	So,
the	 qualities	 of	 the	 so-called	 psychical	 body	 are	 our	 emotions,	 our	 desires.	 We,	 as
present-day	personalities,	expressing	an	ego,	are	living	more	in	our	psychical	bodies
instead	of	our	material	bodies.
Because	a	human	being	knows	very,	very	little	about	his	physical	body,	how	it	works,
how	it's	built,	how	it's	kept	in	good	health.	Leaving	all	that	to	the	holy	archangels,	the
lords	of	the	elements,	and	the	holy	spirit.	Because	we	can	study,	and	we	must	study,
meditate	and	know	our	material	bodies.
Because	it's	said	that	the	material	body	is	the	temple	of	God.	Yes,	definitely.	Of	our	real
self.
So,	now,	what	about	the	psychical	body?	I	said	in	a	lesson	that	when	a	spirit,	ego,	self-
super-consciousness	is	going	to	be	humanized	or	incarnated	into	a	human	being,	he's
accompanied	by	another	archangel	from	the	orders	of	the	thrones,	Metatronius,	which
immediately	ego-fight	with	that	spirit,	ego	of	ourselves,	to	be	humanized.	Making	the
other	side	of	the	one	and	the	same	coin.	You	can	never	find	a	coin	unless	it	has	two
faces.
So,	are	we	that	ego,	spirit,	self-consciousness	of	that	Metatronius	ego-fight	with	us?	Are
we	becoming	one?	No.	Definitely	not.	Give	an	example.
If	I	have	a	candle,	and	I	see	the	flame,	and	I	make	another	candle	touch	it,	and	meet,
and	I	see	one	flame.	Yet,	if	I	make	these	two	candles	apart,	I	see	two	flames.	Turning
them	again,	I	have	one	flame.
But	after	you	have	two	flames.	Though	we	have	one	flame,	in	reality	you	have	two
flames.	So,	the	ego-fight,	archangel,	that	Metatronius,	is	not	our	self,	and	is	not	the	twin
soul,	as	many	people	think.
Why?	Though,	he,	let	us	call	him	he,	is	ego-fight,	becoming	one,	by	attunement	with	our
spirit	ego,	self-super-consciousness,	yet	he	keeps	his	purity	and	his	identity,	and	keeps
it,	always.	We	may	live	our	own	life	in	the	material	body,	in	the	enoetic	body,	in	our
psychical	body.	He	lives	with	us,	not	confined	only	in	our	bodies,	but	living	at	the	same
time	in	its	own	nature.
is	this	archangel,	the	Metatronius,	self-consciousness	now,	minimized	and	becoming
smaller	 to	 our	 measures,	 or	 it	 is	 perfect,	 always.	 Definitely,	 that	 Metatronius,	 the
guardian	angel,	as	we	call	him,	is	an	archangel	of	purity.	He	has	never	been	influenced
by	the	life	of	the	human	beings.

He	is	ego-fight	with.	Why	ego-fight	then?	To	understand,	guard	and	guide.	Guiding	what,
Goya?	Yes.
Though	he	keeps	his	purity,	he	reflects	everything	human	without	being	himself	stained
or	becoming	dirty.	Think	a	big,	crystal-clear	mirror.	You	put	in	front	of	that	mirror	many
things.
You	see	them	in	the	surface	of	the	mirror.	Nice,	good	things.	You	see	them	in	the	surface
of	the	mirror.
Dirty	things.	Even	you	see	them	in	the	surface	of	the	mirror.	Putting	any	kind	of	dirt,
dirty	thing,	in	front	of	that	mirror,	you	see	it	reflected	there.
Does	it	make	the	surface	of	the	mirror	dirty?	Is	anything	reflected	by	a	mirror	staining	or
making	dirty?	The	mirror?	No.	Likewise,	everything	is	known	to	our	guardian	angel.	Our
guardian	angel	is	reflecting	everything	as	thought,	emotion,	and	behavior	of	our	present-
day	personality.
I	say,	he	knows	everything,	yet	he	is	not	stained.	He	is	not	influenced.	Now,	what	is	the
role	of	the	metastronious?	Accompanying	that	ego,	spirit,	our	self-superconsciousness	to
keep	the	records,	to	keep	the	divine	plan,	to	be	in	attunement	or	attunement	with	the
heavenly	man,	the	idea	of	man,	to	keep	the	models.
So,	when	coming	down,	he	is	putting	in	what	we	call	the	permanent	atom,	which	is	our
spirit,	 ego,	 self-consciousness,	 everything	 concerning	 the	 circle	 of	 possibilities	 and
existence	of	our	humanization.	So,	in	the	guardian	angel,	we	have	a	perfect	noetic	body.
We	have	a	perfect	so-called	psychical	body.
And	we	have	also	a	perfect	image	of	our	material	body,	on	which	the	holy	archangels
and	 the	 holy	 spirit	 are	 to	 build	 the	 bodies.	 Now,	 what	 about	 our	 incarnations	 and
reincarnations?	That	spirit,	ego,	self-consciousness	of	ours,	is	making	a	shadow.	And	that
shadow	are	the	bodies	and	a	time	and	space	created	personality.
Time	and	space	created	personality	of	a	man	or	a	woman	which	is	the	bodies	and	a	kind
of	identity	which	is	our	ego	or	I-ness	yet	colored	with	that	personality.	I	am	Church.	We
are	using	our	identity,	our	I-ness,	our	ego,	yet	I	am	Church.
The	woman	will	say,	I	am	Mary.	I	am	Mary	now	and	Church	are	time	and	space	created
personalities	yet	having	the	divine,	eternal	I-ness	colored	now,	covered	now	with	the
material,	the	psychical,	and	the	mind	body.	Now,	we	can	pretend	that	now	I-ness	or	ego
has	its	own	life.
In	time	and	space,	we	get	its	own	experiences.	Though	our	real	I	or	ego	is	not	in	it	to
have	an	experience.	Our	soul	is	perfect.

So	is	also	our	spirit,	ego,	self-super-consciousness.	But	our	inner	self	is	allowing	its
reflection	to	live	its	own	life.	Now,	who	is	responsible	for	the	behavior	of	a	present-day
personality?	Our	soul,	ego,	self-consciousness?	No.
Is	the	father	responsible	of	what	the	prodigal	son	was	supposed	to	get	experiences?	No.
There	is	not	any	sinful	soul.	The	God	in	every	present-day	personality,	God,	is	not	sinful.
There	is	not	sinful	soul.	The	soul	of	everyone	is	perfect	without	any	sin	or	stain.	But,	yet,
it	lives	its	reflection	to	get	its	own	experiences.
Then,	who	will	be	saved,	according	to	the	Church,	in	the	last	day,	as	they	say?	Yes,	that
I-ness	of	the	present-day	personality.	That	will	be	saved.	The	present-day	personality	is
the	prodigal	son.
Of	princely	nature,	because	everyone	is	using	that	word	I	am.	This	I-ness,	giving	him	the
self-consciousness,	is	divine.	So,	we	must	have	in	mind,	who	is	going	to	return	there?
Definitely,	the	prodigal	son	has	to	return	back	home.
Which	means	that	I-ness	of	George	and	Mary	will	return.	And	that	I-ness	is	responsible
and	has	to	get	experiences.	So,	we	see	now	the	role	of	Metatronius.
Having	the	records	and	the	plan,	the	divine	plan,	ecophied	with	the	man,	is	to	follow	that
spirit	in	its	teachings,	expression,	in	time	and	space,	and	keep	the	records.	So,	the
present-day	personality	is	given	a	perfect	shape	of	the	numerical	body,	yet	the	material
of	it	is	to	be	shaped	by	a	human	being	and	his	experiences	in	time	and	space.	Also,	a
perfect	psychical	body,	and	yet,	in	it	the	material	to	be	used	to	shape	it	in	that	form.
Do	we	have	truth	and	psychical	bodies?	Yes!	A	perfect,	which	we	should	be	and	the	mass
which	we	must	shape.	You	have	one	material	body,	yet	you	have	two	so-called	psychical
bodies	and	two	nautical	bodies.	One	kept	in	the	guardian	angel	and	the	other,	the	staff
of	it,	you	have	to	shape	it.
This	is	given	to	the	present-day	personality.	So,	what	is	reincarnation?	Experiences,
many,	many	experiences.	Now,	the	eye	of	George	and	of	Mary	must	become	a	kind	of
sculptor.
They	get	the	material,	they	see	the	model,	make	it.	Make	it	as	perfect	as	you	can.	And
enter	in	it	to	go	to	deification.
And	so,	from	incarnation	to	incarnation,	breaking	what	we	have	done,	not	resembling
completely	to	the	model,	we	are	given	new	staff,	new	material	body,	new	staff,	new	so-
called	psychical	body	to	start	working	in	it.	And	a	new	nautical	body.	So,	we	are	the
spirit,	ego,	self-super-consciousness,	having	in	us	the	model	and	the	guardian	angel
egotized	with	us	to	guard	and	guide.

Guide	in	which	way?	Leaving	us	alone	to	get	our	own	experiences.	Only	when	we	overdo
it,	then	the	guardian	angel	is	interfering	and	is	interfering	us,	we	feel	it	as	stinks	of
consciousness.	Then	and	only	then,	when	we	overdo	it,	the	guardian	angel	is	interfering.
So,	the	guardian	angel,	Metastronio	Secovite,	keeps	the	clean	records	and	images	and
likenesses.	Where	are	they?	In	us	again.	Because	we	are	the	permanent	atom.
Everything	is	in	the	permanent	atom.	Our	ego,	our	I-ness	all	the	time.	So,	a	fellow	passes
over.
The	guardian	angel	is	accompanying	him	in	the	psychical	plane.	The	same	way	he	was
guarding	him	on	the	material	plane,	he	is	guarding	him	in	the	psychical	plane.	Now	it's
the	time	to	show	him	what	he	has	written	and	what	he	should	have	written.
Make	the	comparison.	Casting	away	even	the	psychical	body	later,	he	will	be	in	the
hypnotic	body.	There	again,	the	same	guardian	angel	will	guard	him	and	guide	him.
Guide	him	and	cool	the	soul.	No,	it's	a	reflection	of	the	present	personality.	And	then,
after	getting	the	experiences	of	that	present	personality,	maybe,	if	it's	necessary,	we'll
have	a	period	of	sleep.
Maybe?	No.	Then	be	reincarnated,	reincarnated,	in	putting	on	the	permanent	atom	now,
what	kind	of	material	will	make	its	material	body,	its	psychical	body,	its	hypnotic	body?
That	means	the	new	reincarnation.	And	that	I-ness	now	feeling	different	to	the	previous
one,	yet	one.
Feeling	not	completely	responsible	for	the	force	of	previous	incarnation,	yet	responsible
will	start	from	where	it	had	stopped.	Its	work	has	finished	a	day	at	school.	You'll	go	back
home.
The	next	day,	return	again	to	the	same	classroom	to	continue	its	lessons.	So,	every
incarnation	is	a	day	at	school.	Are	we	punished	by	what	you	call	mistakes?	No.
If	the	guardian	angel	all	the	time	interferes,	showing	us	the	models	what	we	should	do,
it's	not	punishment.	It's	love.	It's	care.
Now,	we	spoke	about	the	holy	guardian	angel,	the	only	one,	ecophyte,	becoming	in
some	way	one	with	us.	Michael's,	Gabriel's,	Raphael's,	Uriel's,	and	all	other	authors,
Cherub's	and	Seraph's,	are	not	ecophyte.	They	are	keeping	their	own	nature.
They	are	workers.	They	work	for	the	building	up	of	the	bodies.	They	are	the	lords	of	the
elements.
In	the	body,	material,	it's	etheric	double.	Psychical,	it's	etheric	double.	The	neurotic
body,	and	so	on.

There	is	one	Michael.	Billions	and	billions	and	billions	of	Michaels.	Yet	for	every	living
being,	human	or	of	the	animal	kingdom,	there	is	a	Michael.
The	lord	of	light,	fire,	and	heat.	There	is	one	Gabriel.	The	lord	of	liquids,	and	a	Raphael.
The	lord	of	etheric	vitality,	energy.	Magnetism,	electricity,	call	it	whatever	you	like.	Call	it
energy.
And	a	balancer,	Uriel,	who	is	the	lord	of	metabolism	in	the	material	body.	To	put	the
elements	in	harmony.	And	so	it's	built	the	material	body.
Who	is	the	supervisor?	These	are	the	workers.	Wise,	of	course,	definitely.	But	who	is	the
foreman	of	all	this	work	done	in	all	the	human	bodies	and	the	bodies	of	the	animal
kingdom?	The	absolute	beingness	itself,	with	its	expression	as	total	wisdom,	total	love,
and	total	force	of	might.
We	call	it	the	holy	spirit.	So,	one,	by	observation,	meditation,	and	realization,	will	come
in	conscious	contact	with	this	holy	brothers	of	ours,	the	archangels,	and	the	holy	spirit.
Because	they	are	in	our	bodies.
Only	an	innocent	person	cannot	detect	and	understand	that	great	work	done	in	its
material	body.	But	still,	greater	work	is	done	in	the	so-called	psychical	body.	We	said	in	a
lesson	that	the	material	body	definitely	should	be	built	in	a	kind	of	mold.
That	mold	is	the	so-called	etheric	double.	We,	as	researchers,	should	know	not	only	its
existence,	but	how	to	use	it.	And	then,	after	that,	we	should	know	about	the	existence	of
our	psychical	body	and	we'll	find	out	we	are	face-to-face	now	with	our	subconsciousness.
And	this	is	our	task.	To	see	the	nature	that	present	moment	we	are	searching	of	our
subconsciousness.	We	said	this	subconsciousness	is	the	sum	total	of	the	elementals	we
have	created	in	the	past.
In	this	incarnation	and	even	in	previous	incarnations	also.	So,	now,	what	is	expected
from	the	Holy	Archangel,	our	guardian	angel	of	us	to	do?	Just	to	understand	who	we	are
as	the	entities	which	can	think,	study	and	understand.	We	should	just	stand	before	that
quality	of	our	so-called	psychical	body	and	start	work.
That	means	start	to	analyze	our	emotions,	desires	and	of	course	the	outcome	of	it.	Our
behavior,	 weaknesses,	 way	 of	 behaving,	 anger,	 hatred	 and	 all	 that.	 And	 start	 now
knowing	the	present	state	of	our	psychical	body	and	make	corrections.
How?	By	being	influenced	by	the	perfect	psychical	body,	again	in	us,	which	is	not	for	us
to	use,	but	to	use	it	as	a	model	to	shape	the	stuff,	the	psychical	stuff	to	make	it	like	the
bright,	brilliant,	psychical	body	model	of	our	guardian	angel.	What	is	the	role	of	our
guardian	angel?	Does	our	guardian	angel	interfere?	Is	he	interfering?	Indirectly,	yes.

Directly,	no.
Why?	Not	directly.	Because	even	to	the	present	day	personality	in	us	is	given	the
freedom	to	decide.	We	are	not	poised	in	the	hands	of	our	guardian	angel	or	of	any	other
intelligence.
We	are	free.	Free	to	choose,	but	face	the	responsibilities.	This	is	the	duty	of	every
researcher	after	the	truth.
To	analyze	 his	 emotions,	 desires,	 way	 of	 living,	 way	 of	 behaving	 and	 consult	even
subconsciously	his	guardian	angel.	When	we	will	get	that	decision,	then	the	guardian
angel	will	help.	He's	keeping	the	records.
He's	keeping	the	purity	of	these	bodies.	We	see	it	subconsciously.	But	he's	not	telling	us
anything.
Follow	it	or	not.	That's	up	to	you.	You	face	the	consequences.
But	if	you	ask	me,	then	I	will	help	you.	So,	the	same	way	we	are	given	the	noetic	stuff.
Our	noetical	body.
Now,	what	about	the	purity	of	our	noetic	body?	And	what	about	the	purity	of	our	so-
called	psychical	body?	Now,	our	noetic	body	and	our	psychical	body	are	making	what	we
call	our	subconsciousness.	Which	is	the	storehouse	of	all	the	elementals	we	have	created
and	are	creating	every	moment	subconsciously.	Now,	consciously	we	have	to	study	their
nature	and	their	purity.
And	make	corrections.	In	how?	We'll	make	corrections.	In	dis-energizing	those	torturing
us	and	standing	in	front	of	us	on	our	way	and	replacing	them	with	now	consciously
created	new	elementals	pure	and	clean.
Now,	it's	not	enough	to	dis-energize	an	elemental	which	is	torturing	you	without	creating
an	 opposite	 elemental	 of	 purity	 to	 take	 its	 place.	 Otherwise,	 it's	 much	 easier	 that
elemental	which	has	been	dis-energized	to	be	re-energized	by	you.	So	you	have	to	fill
the	place	of	it	in	your	subconscious.
So,	now,	we	know	that	we	have	a	material	body	which	by	mistake	we	think	it's	our	self.
Yes,	yet	it	isn't.	It	is	ours.
Not	we.	We	have	it's	etheric	double	which	you	have	to	study	and	work	with	it	for	our
material	body	and	for	the	others.	Now,	I'm	speaking	about	the	psychotherapists.
You	have	to	study	what's	energy,	wherefrom	we	are	getting	this	energy,	the	nature	of
this	energy.	Then	I	said,	we	have	to	analyze	say,	our	behavior.	Analyze	our	emotions,
desires,	thoughts.

And	see	what	we	can	do.	You	will	see	all	around	you	that	all	people	are	not	in	the	same
condition	in	this	life.	They	have	body	similar	in	composition,	yet	they	are	different	as
personalities.
Yet,	inside	every	present	day	personality	of	a	man	or	a	woman	is	the	I-ness,	the	ego.	Ego
now,	in	two	forms.	Shadow	in	the	mirror	of	time	and	space	which	are	egoists	and
ourselves	reflected	in	that	mirror.
Have	this	in	your	mind.	We	are	reflected	in	our	egos.	But	we	are	not	the	egoists	that	are
lost	before	a	mirror.
Gazing	on	the	face	of	that	mirror	and	say,	yes,	I	am	that,	showing	the	reflection	in	the
mirror.	We	are	not	that.	Because	if	I	break	the	mirror,	the	Holy	Archangels	and	God	is
doing	it	by	taking	us	out	of	our	material	position,	passing	over.
Yet,	we	must	have	that	in	our	mind.	We	are	not	the	reflection	on	the	surface	of	a	mirror.
This	is	what	we	have	to	find	out.
So,	I	have	showed	ways	how	to	separate	and	know	now	the	difference	between	the	ego
and	egoists.	We	have	to	do	that.	There	is	no	other	way.
There	is	no	other	way	to	free	ourselves	from	the	illusions	of	time	and	space	and	being
influenced	by	the	egoists.	Now,	in	studying	our	egoists,	that	means	the	behavior	of	our
egoists,	 not	 our	 behavior,	 what	 do	 you	 see?	 Is	 the	 egoism	 expressing	 a	 kind	 of
willpower?	On	this	point,	I	want	you	just	to	think.	Does	our	egoism	possess	a	willpower?
Do	we	express	the	willpower?	Is	the	willpower	our	nature	as	gods?	Definitely,	it	should
be.
Because	out	of	the	qualities	and	natures	of	the	absolute	beginners,	is	the	will,	the
willpower.	Now,	is	our	egoism	expressing	the	willpower?	No.	It	is	expressing	what	I	would
call	obstinacy	and	bad	habit,	not	willpower.
We	can	use	the	willpower	to	change	things.	In	meditation,	observation,	and	realization	of
the	truth,	we	have	the	willpower	to	disenergize	our	elementals,	which	compose	the
egoists.	Yes,	we	meet	an	obstinacy	of	those	elementals,	that	means	of	our	egoists.
But	 you	 can	 cope	 with	 that	 obstinacy,	 which	 is	 not	 the	 willpower.	 We	 express	 the
willpower.	Because	if	that	was	not	the	case,	human	beings	could	never	go	forward	and
change.
So,	we	must	deprive	from	the	egoists	that	obstinacy	which	we	may	mistake	as	willpower.
They	are	not	a	willpower	to	the	egoists.	Now,	what	happens	if	we	trace	the	egoists	in
certain	of	its	expressions?	What	we	will	observe	that	the	egoists	will	present	itself
claiming	that	it	is	our	self.

That	is	the	point	we	have	just	to	say	no,	no,	no,	no.	You	are	not	me.	Yes,	you	are	a
creation	in	time	and	space	of	mind	in	the	way	you	yourself	is	shaping	it	and	not	myself.
But	you	are	not	myself.	I	am	life	and	you	are	not	life.	You	are	a	phenomenon	in	time	and
space	which	changes	all	the	time.
This	 is	 what	 I	 call	 observation	 and	 self-realization.	 That's	 what	 you	 mean	 by	 self-
upliftment	or	spiritual	development.	But	unless	we	do	it	in	this	way,	don't	expect	any
success	because	one	should	be	definitely	sincere	with	himself.
Who?	Yes,	the	present	day	personality,	I	in	S,	now	tracing	the	truth	and	turning	its	face
towards	her	own	self.	This	is	what	one	sincerely	should	do.