

1-	Sight	of	the	Soul	-	Our	Many	Gifts	from	God
Our	Father	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions,	as	you	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	not	into	temptation,	but	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom	and
the	power	and	the	glory	for	ever.	Absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.
Everlasting	life,	love	and	mercy.	Manifesting	yourself	in	yourself,	in	your	omnipresence,
as	your	total	wisdom	and	your	almightyness.	Enlighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as
the	truth.
Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	We	are	going	around	in	nature	here	in	the	cross-material	world.
And	what	do	we	see?	Phenomena	of	life	of	various	kinds.	We	can	see	the	cross-material
earth,	the	place	around	us.	We	can	see	in	the	vegetable	kingdom,	trees,	bushes,	all
kinds	of	vegetable	life	rooted	on	the	cross-material	world.
Not	moving	about.	These	are	the	characteristics	of	the	vegetable	life.	Now	we	see	also
around	us	other	phenomena	of	life.
Billions	and	billions	of	phenomena	of	life	in	each	kingdom.	In	the	vegetable	kingdom,	in
the	animal	kingdom,	animals.	Around	us	many	kinds	of	animals	going	about,	moving.
Now	in	the	kingdom	of	the	animals,	these	phenomena	of	life	are	moving	about.	They	are
independent	from	the	cross-material	planet,	from	the	earth.	The	vegetable	kingdom	we
have	them	rooted,	not	moving	about.
We	see	birds	flying	in	the	air,	here	and	there.	We	see	also	human	beings	going	here	and
there.	What	do	we	understand	about	a	human	being	and	about	the	animals	all	around
him?	Both	have	a	cross-material	body.
All	kinds	of	animals	have	a	cross-material	body.	Human	beings	have	a	cross-material
body	also.	Bones,	just	all	the	elements	of	nature.
Bones,	flesh,	blood,	the	liquids,	organs.	The	same	thing	as	the	animals,	a	head.	And
studying	the	life	of	every	phenomenon	of	life	in	the	animal	kingdom,	we	see	similarities.
But	we	see	great	differences	also	in	the	form.	We	see	that	each	phenomenon	of	life	now
we	study	the	animal	kingdom.	As	a	head,	lungs,	a	heart,	the	human	beings'	hands	and
feet,	the	animals	on	the	feet,	all	that.
So	we	have	to	study	this	phenomenon	of	life	and	see	in	what	they	are	similar	and	where
they	are	different,	similar	in	flesh,	in	bones,	the	cross-material.	They	are	similar,	the

animals	and	the	human	beings.	But	there	is	a	great	difference	now.
Now	let	us	see	to	what	they	are	similar.	We	said	in	previous	lessons	that	something	to
exist	in	the	cross-material	world	should	have	a	form,	definitely	a	form.	Without	a	form,
nothing	can	exist	or	even	be.
We	cannot	see	the	form.	The	real	form	which	is	materialized,	unless	it	is	covered	with
cross-matter,	forms	do	exist,	invisible.	So	to	be	and	to	exist,	there	must	be	a	form.
So	we	can	see	billions	and	billions	and	billions	of	forms	in	the	animal	kingdom.	Very
different,	the	form	of	the	one	phenomenon	of	life	from	the	other	phenomenon	of	life,	yet
similar	in	the	composition	of	the	elements,	of	the	matter,	the	bones,	flesh,	organs	and	all
that.	We	see	all	these	phenomena	of	life	in	the	animal	kingdom	and	we	see	human
beings.
Now	 we	 see	 the	 difference	 between	 a	 human	 being	 and	 the	 animals	 or	 the	 other
animals.	Now	of	course,	those	enlightened	ones	in	the	past,	through	all	these	centuries
which	have	passed,	human,	no	animal	can	show	any	development	of	that	kind.	Only	the
human	race	has	given	us	the	so-called	enlightened	ones,	human	beings.
Have	reached	to	very,	very	high	levels	of	beingness	and	of	existence,	in	both	sides,	in
beingness	and	in	existence.	And	were	able	to	read,	see,	study,	what	is	in	what	we	call
the	 cosmic	 consciousness.	 There	 in	 what	 we	 call	 the	 cosmic	 mind,	 the	 cosmic
consciousness,	which	is	everywhere,	everything	which	had	existed	is	there	recorded,	in
every	detail.
But	now,	those	today,	and	even	in	the	past,	who	could	just	approach,	reach	that	state	of
seeing,	in	what	we	say,	the	cosmic	consciousness.	What	did	they	see?	And	what	did	they
give	to	the	people	of	seeing	there?	I	had	given	an	example	before	some	time.	We	have	a
very	nice	park,	full	of	flowers,	trees,	everything	there.
And	we	see,	we	take	there	in	this	park,	3	or	4	people,	each	child	10	years	of	age,	the
child	has	eyes	to	see.	Just	a	grown-up,	not	interested	on	trees	and	flowers	and	anything,
but	on	different	other	things.	A	botanist,	that	is	called	a	cosmic	thing.
There,	and	another	fellow	there,	and	I	leave	them	for	an	hour.	All	of	them	have	eyes	to
see.	But	what	do	they	see?	They	leave	for	an	hour	there.
Then	I	ask	them,	what	have	you	seen?	I	get	that	child.	What	did	you	see?	You	had	eyes
to	see.	You	were	seeing	things	around.
But	it	is	not	only	the	eyes	needed	to	see,	it	is	the	mind	behind	it.	The	mind	sees,	not	the
eyes.	The	child	went	near	the	pool,	just	made	some	mud	there	with	the	water.
There,	playing	and	playing	and	playing.	What	did	you	see?	You	see	some	birds	swimming

in	the	pool,	nothing	more	than	that.	Though	the	child	has	eyes	to	see.
The	other	man	will	describe	you	what	interested	him,	seeing.	I	will	tell	him,	what	about
that	and	that	and	that	thing?	Did	you	not	see	them?	No,	I	didn't.	He	had	seen	them,	but
he	didn't	notice	them.
And	the	other	one,	the	botanist,	he	will	give	me	a	full	description	of	what	is	interesting
him.	All	those	people	in	the	park	had	eyes,	very	nice	eyes,	which	could	see.	But	what	did
they	see?	Now,	in	the	cosmic	mind,	in	the	cosmic	consciousness,	what	is	needed	is	also
this	sight,	not	immaterialized,	the	sight	and	the	mind.
Now,	many	can	enter	there,	in	that	cosmic	so-called	consciousness,	but	what	do	they
see?	We	see	some	mediums	becoming,	as	they	claim,	clairvoyant.	Honest	people,	they
describe	what	they	see,	but	what	really	they	see.	It's	according	to	their	soul	and	self-
development.
That's	why	their	description	is	so	different,	the	description	of	the	one	from	the	other.
That's	called	the	children	in	the	park.	Many	are	coming	to	me	and	say,	Sir,	I	want	to
become	a	clairvoyant.
Of	course,	I'm	laughing.	What	for?	To	see	what?	Did	you	grow	up	in	reality	to	know	what
you	want	to	know?	To	know	what	is	life	and	know	what	to	see?	Or	just	simply	catch
glimpses	here	and	there	of	something	from,	quote-unquote,	the	psychical	plane,	or	even
the	lower	nautical	plane,	and	then	color	it	according	to	the	quality	of	your	personality
and	 claim	 that	 you	 are	 saying	 the	 truth.	 So,	 clairvoyance	 and	 clairaudience	 mean
nothing	if	the	one	who	is	supposed	to	use	it	is	developed.
It's	not	a	child	to	play	near	the	pond	with	the	mud	and	the	water.	Yes,	all	of	them	can
enter	into	what	I	call	the	cosmic	consciousness	or	the	cosmic	mind,	but	what	do	they	see
and	understand	and	study	there?	So,	many	in	the	past	have	conducted	this	cosmic
consciousness,	which	is	everywhere,	in	the	omnipresence	of	God	the	Locust.	But	what
they	have	given	us	shows	their	development	and	the	quality	of	their	personality,	coloring
what	they	have	seen.
So,	what	do	I	want	to	say?	We	cannot	rely	very	much	on	the	description	of	those	called
clairaudient	or	clairvoyant	before	they	are	developed.	Developed.	What	does	it	mean,
developed,	now?	After	we	study	the	human	being.
Who	is	a	human	being	in	reality?	First	as	a	man	and	as	a	woman,	and	then	as	a	soul.
Self-consciousness	and	the	various	stages	of	expressing	that	self,	soul	consciousness.
The	consciousness,	we	cannot	know	the	development	of	a	human	being	and	conducting
what	we	call	the	cosmic	consciousness,	what	that	fellow,	man	or	a	woman,	can	see.
See,	all	of	them	will	see	the	same	thing,	but	what	do	they	understand?	That's	why	I	said,
the	 first	 thing	 is	 our	 real	 inner	 nature	 of	 observation.	 To	 know,	 to	 observe	 and

understand.	What	is	understanding	now?	Using	the	mind	super-substance	in	the	proper
way	of	using	it.
We	made	all	through	these	years	so	much	bad	use	of	the	mind,	enslaving	it	and	just
serving	our	emotions,	our	desires,	our	weaknesses,	our	intentions,	that	we	made	just	a
so-called	nautical	body,	so,	shall	I	call	it	dim	or	dirty.	And	we	cannot	see	through	it
properly	and	nicely.	Now,	what	did	the	enlightened	ones	had	seen	in	the	cosmic	mind,	in
the	cosmic	memory?	What	concerns	our	planet,	life	and	the	phenomena	of	life	on	our
planet?	What	description	they	had	given?	And	can	we	do	the	same?	Is	it	enough	just	to
get	what	they	have	given	us?	Believing	blindly.
And	that's	enough.	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ	says,	No,	you	should	know	the	truth	and	the
truth	will	take	you	away	from	confusion	and	from	delusions.	You,	you	should	be	as
perfect	as	your	Heavenly	Father	is	perfect.
Not	 others.	 Nobody	 is	 eating	 and	 digesting	 with	 the	 mouth	 and	 the	 stomach	 of
somebody	else.	One	has	to	eat	for	himself.
So,	one	has	to	use	the	mind	for	himself	and	learn	how	to	use	the	mind.	But,	all	people
have	what	to	call	the	mind.	Yes.
As	 God	 has	 given	 the	 vitality,	 the	 air,	 the	 oxygen	 and	 everything	 for	 everybody	 to
breathe,	so,	and	lungs	to	breathe,	so	that	he	or	she	will	live.	So,	he	has	given	the	mind
for	all,	all	to	use.	But	notice	what	kind	of	use	we	are	making	of	the	mind.
I'll	give	a	poor	example	here.	We	have	the	fresh	air,	oxygen	and	everything	to	breathe
and	be	strong	and	happy.	But	what	man	invented?	To	smoke.
To	take	what?	To	smoke	and	this	and	that.	Destroying	healing	lungs	and	many,	many
other	effects	on	the	material	body	by	having	all	this	stuff	which	is	not	the	oxygen.	Whose
fault	is	that?	This	is	the	same	with	the	mind.
We	should	not	contaminate	the	super	substance	of	the	mind,	of	the	holy	mind.	Divine	is
not,	but	it	is	holy.	In	spoiling	it,	in	making	it	just	unbridled	desires,	emotions,	egoistic
emotions,	weaknesses,	passions,	enmities	and	many	other	things.
Because	all	these	things	are	made	by	the	means	of	the	mind.	To	put	it	more	plainly,
using	the	mind	in	such	a	way	as	to	create	human	demons.	The	human	demons	wrapping
us	 all	 around	 us	 as	 the	 elementals	 composing	 our	 present	 day	 personality	 and	 our
subconsciousness	are	blinding	our	sight	from	seeing	this	truth.
So,	I	come	again	to	the	main	point.	If	one,	desiring,	having	what	I	call	clairvoyance,
clairaudience	and	all	those	so	called	powers,	calling	them	psychical	powers,	he	should
have	 first	 of	 all	 his	 own	 personal	 development.	 Personal,	 that	 means	 making	 his
personality,	ego,	self,	dependent,	time	and	place,	personality	so	pure	as	to	transmute	it

into	his	or	her	soul,	self	and	then	see	better,	clearly.
And	the	sight	of	the	soul	is	perfect.	The	sight	of	the	personality?	No.	No.
So	we	have	just	first	to	transmute	the	personality,	our	personality,	to	our	individuality,
that	means	that	part	of	our	self,	soul,	so	that	we	should	know	what	we	are	seeing	and
what	 for,	 see	 what	 for	 in	 the	 cosmic	 consciousness.	 That's	 the	 perfect	 book	 which
reveals	the	truth	concerning	life,	phenomena	of	life	and	the	human	being.	So,	now	come
to	the	point.
What	did	the	enlightened	ones	have	seen	in	that	cosmic	consciousness,	cosmic	mind?
What	did	they	see?	Yes,	the	planet,	the	conditions,	they	were	in	various	times,	at	the
beginning,	volcanoes,	just	the	atmosphere,	unfriendly,	difficult,	difficulties	in	life,	in	living
and	many,	many,	many	other	things.	One	can	see	all	that.	Can	see	different	phenomena
of	life	on	the	planet,	suitable	for	that	time.
Huge	serpentines,	huge	beasts,	monsters	going	here	and	there,	attacking	each	other,
killing	the	bodies	of	each	other,	like	that.	And	we	see	the	human	being	in	the	caves,
holding	just	a	club	on	his	hand	to	protect	himself	from	the	wild	animals	around	them	and
just	kill	smaller	animals	to	eat	himself.	So,	studying	the	enlightened	ones,	all	those
conditions,	he	finds	the	human	being	using	even	a	little	bit	of	what	we	call	the	mind	at
the	beginning	for	his	protection.
Later,	 subconsciously	 creating	 his	 gods,	 the	 elementals	 which	 tend	 to	 help	 him	 to
survive,	to	live.	We	can	study	just	the	life	of	a	human	being	and	the	study	of	all	the
animals	around	us	on	the	planet	according	to	the	conditions	prevailing	that	time	on	the
planet.	And	we	see	the	human	being	not	losing	the	opportunities,	using	more	and	more
his	or	her	mind	in	manifesting	now	a	personality.
From	this	point	we	see	the	human	being	different	from	the	animals.	You	will	never	see
any	animal	on	the	planet,	any	kind	of	animal	manifesting	a	personality.	What	is	the
personality	now?	We	must	analyze	it.
Manifesting	a	separate	from	everything	else	self,	shadow	of	the	self,	not	the	real	self,
calling	I.	I	am.	Did	you	hear	any	animal	call	itself	I	am	and	have	a	different	name	from
other	animals?	We	give	names	to	the	animals.	They	may	hear	the	elementals	in	them,
directing	them,	but	in	reality,	animals	do	not	have	a	name.
Human	beings,	each	one,	man	or	woman,	has	a	name.	His	or	her	name.	Listening	to	it,
hearing	to	it,	and	responding	to	it.
So	now	we	have	to	study	what	we	call	the	time	and	place	human	personality.	First	of	all,
considering	the	human	body,	the	human	form,	the	human	body,	as	the	self.	The	first
mistake,	but	maybe	it	is	necessary	for	that	time	to	develop	what	we	call	the	personality.

Then,	what	do	we	see	more	in	the	personality	of	a	human	being	which	we	cannot	see	in
any	kind	of	animals	around	us?	What	can	I	see?	First.	That	I-ness.	Please	stop	him.
They	should	go	and	take	photographs.	This	time	I	am	just	giving	the	lecture.	They	should
not	stand	there.
Let	them	sit.	Please	let	them	take	a	seat.	But	they	shouldn't	stand	there.
Now,	seeing	the	personality	of	a	man.	Now,	what	do	we	see?	Using	his	other	bodies
subconsciously	 without	 knowing	 anything	 about	 them.	 How?	 Of	 course,	 the	 Holy
Archangels,	we	said	in	a	lesson,	are	using	the	etheric	double	of	the	cross-material	body
to	build	it,	to	sustain	it,	and	to	keep	it	in	good	order.
For	that,	we	shouldn't	care	more.	The	Holy	Archangels	are	doing	their	work.	Now,	we	see
the	personality	in	a	human	body	as	a	human	being	now.
That's	not	a	human	being	in	reality.	As	a	human	being,	we	see	the	personality	of	a	man
starting	 building	 that	 personality	 what	 we	 call	 his	 or	 her	 subconsciousness
subconsciously.	Not	consciously	or	self-consciously.
This	 is	 what	 makes	 a	 human	 being	 different	 from	 all	 the	 animals.	 What	 is	 this
subconsciousness	now	of	a	human	being?	Is	this	subconsciousness	the	etheric	double?
And	the	etheric	double.	Is	this	subconsciousness	the	psychical	body	and	the	psychical
body,	which	is	the	etheric	double?	Is	this	subconsciousness	the	enoetical	body	and	the
enoetical	body?	Is	this	subconsciousness	the	enoetical	body?	Yes	and	no.
Now,	what	is	the	relation	of	the	human	being	as	a	personality	now?	What	is	that	human
being	as	a	personality	now?	Related	to	the	psychical	body.	The	so-called	psychical	body.
But	the	main	part	of	the	personality	of	a	man	is	his	desires,	his	emotions	and	the	way	of
behaving.
I	would	say,	rather,	that	the	personality	of	a	man	is	more	the	psychical	body	than	the
cross-material	body.	And	the	personality	of	a	man	is	that	composition	and	the	way	of
blending	thought,	the	mind	and	the	emotions.	And	slaving,	as	I	said	before,	the	mind	to
the	intentions,	desires,	emotions	and	later	to	his	or	her	passions,	weaknesses	and	way	of
behaving.
So	now	we	have	how	to	see	the	present-day	personality	of	a	human	being.	This	we	must
have	in	our	mind	while	starting	our	introspection	or	looking	within.	So,	we	should	know
the	composition	of	the	present-day	personality	of	a	human	being.
Now,	say	something	else.	What	is	the	relation	of	the	personality	to	the	individuality?	The
personality	 of	 a	 human	 being	 as	 a	 man	 or	 a	 woman	 to	 his	 or	 her	 soul-self.	 The
individuality	is	the	everlasting	self.

And	as	I	said	in	the	previous	lesson,	unless	that	self	is	the	part	of	life	in	her	time	and
place,	that	personality	cannot	exist.	So,	it	is	the	part	of	life,	the	individuality,	the	soul	in
the	present-day	personality.	But	latent	in	the	personality,	wrapped	and	covered	with	all
the	impressions,	the	desires,	the	thoughts	and	the	elementals,	human	demons	or	human
angels,	it	doesn't	matter.
The	elementals.	So,	now	we	know	what	is	the	present-day	personality	of	a	human	being.
Now,	we	know	what	we	are	as,	today,	human	beings.
Mortal,	not	immortal.	Yet,	we	have	in	us	latent	the	immortality,	our	immortal	soul-self.
So,	you	cannot	find	that	in	any	kind	of	the	animals	around	us.
And	I	said,	no	animal	is	a	soul.	But	what	is	it	in	the	place	of	a	soul	in	the	animal	life?
Something	 immortal	 should	 be	 in	 all	 the	 animals.	 Yes,	 it	 is	 the	 archangel	 who	 is
dominating	over	that	kind	of	life,	of	that	phenomenon	of	life.
But,	in	a	human	being,	a	human	being	is	a	god.	It	is	a	soul,	ego,	self.	Now,	we	have
described	the	human	being	as	a	personality	and	as	a	soul,	ego,	self.
I	have	just	to	describe	it	more.	The	human	being	today,	as	we	know	as	a	man	or	as	a
woman	has	a	form,	the	human	form.	Human	form	as	a	male	or	as	a	female.
The	cross-material	body	has	that	form	dressed	in	cross-matter.	What	is	the	form	of	the
personality	of	a	man?	Here,	we	have	just	to	see	it.	Is	the	personality	male	and	female?
Yes,	of	course	it	is.
It	is	male	and	female,	or	male	or	female.	But,	Latin	is	the	whole.	That	is	why	sometimes
an	ego-self,	a	permanent	personality,	can	be	incarnated	into	a	man	or	into	a	woman.
What	for?	For	everything	to	exist	and	happen	on	the	cross-material	world	or	in	any
world,	there	must	be	a	reason	behind	it	and	a	cause	behind	it.	Because	the	Divine	Super-
Intelligence,	God,	has	created	everything	in	a	plan	and	with	a	purpose.	So,	what	is	now
the	human	form	in	the	whole	circle	of	its	existence,	possibilities	and	probabilities?	Male
and	female.
And	in	various	stages	of	appearance	from	the	spermatozoon	to	complete	this	circle	of
possibilities.	Which	is	now	the	form	of	the	soul-self?	That.	Which	means	the	soul-self	has
the	human	form	complete.
Complete	 in	 what?	 In	 appearance,	 in	 the	 eternal	 Now,	 Now.	 Not	 in	 the	 course	 of
appearing,	the	development.	The	whole	circle	of	existence	and	possibilities	and	not,
what	you	call,	time	and	appearance	in	time.
So	the	soul	is	in	the	eternal	Now	and	not	in	time	as	we	know	it	and	understand	it	now.
So,	now	we	make	just	a	comparison	between	the	present-day	personality	of	a	man	and

the	soul.	What	about	the	permanent	personality	of	a	man?	Seen	just	by	a	fellow	who	can
see	it.
The	personality,	the	permanent	personality	of	a	man	which	is	part	of	the	soul	emerged	in
the	 world	 of	 existence	 from	 the	 one	 side	 is	 just	 in	 time	 and	 place	 developing	 the
incarnated	 personality	 but	 from	 the	 other	 side	 and	 in	 it	 has	 the	 complete	 circle	 of
possibilities	 and	 existence.	 So	 it	 partakes	 of	 both	 sides	 because	 the	 permanent
personality	is	the	personality	and	the	soul	itself.	That's	why	Joshua	Emmanuel	even
addressing	the	Pharisees	in	their	sins,	in	their	shortcomings	was	calling	them	gods	and
sons	of	God	offsprings	of	God.
Because	 he	 could	 see,	 even	 in	 their	 sinful	 personality	 the	 soul	 individuality	 of	 their
spiritual	self.	Of	course,	we	must	enter	deep	in	the	meaning	of	these	things	just	to
understand	the	sayings	of	Joshua	Emmanuel	concerning	the	other	human	beings	saying,
love	all	the	human	beings	as	your	own	self,	not	less.	Otherwise,	it	has	no	meaning.
So	now,	we	see	the	man	as	long	as	he	or	she	is	living	in	the	cross	material	world	we	see
the	man	just	in	the	course	through	what	we	call	time	and	place	of	which	her	or	his	life
manifesting	it.	Is	this	real?	Or	the	reality	is	behind	this	phenomenon?	Behind	time	and
place-space?	Now	let	us	see	it	from	another	point	of	view.	Yesterday,	before	yesterday
just	before,	even	before	have	passed,	we	have	lived	what	are	those	events,	the	way	of
life	the	way	you	have	expressed	yourselves	to	us	now,	more	than	what	I	will	call	it,	a
remembrance	or	a	dream,	call	it	a	dream	if	you	like.
To	these	events	which	have	passed	in	what	you	call	time	have	any	effect	on	us	on	our
consciousness	now	and	today.	You	should	have	just	studied	the	introspection.	Of	course
it	does.
Because	all	these	things	are	living	elementals	in	our	subconsciousness	in	our	personality
and	 given	 the	 opportunity	 being	 re-energized	 they	 come	 forward	 claiming	 their	 life
again.	This	is	the	thing	we	have	just	to	study.	I	will	give	an	example.
There	is	a	fellow	he	had	just	say	a	day	before	some	days,	maybe	weeks,	months	which
gave	him	pleasure	in	sinful	things	even	in	sex,	in	drinking,	in	gambling	and	doing	all	that.
In	the	meantime	he	had	changed	his	life	according	to	circumstances.	Now,	sitting	alone
these	elementals	come	on	the	surface	of	his	consciousness	which	you	call	remembering,
memory	I	have	just	to	study	this	phenomenon	of	memory	remembering,	concerning	our
time	 and	 place,	 personality	 and	 then	 what	 happens?	 Immediately	 re-energize	 these
elementals	will	create	in	him	the	same	desires	sinful	desires.
If	he	is	a	drunkard	or	he	should	like	just	to	go	somewhere	to	drink	if	he	is	a	gambler	he
will	go	just	to	play	cards	or	something	else	which	means	that	they	are	living	entities	in
the	personality	they	are	in	what	we	call	our	personality's	plurality	we	should	be	very
careful	about	them	so	one	should	study	seriously	the	nature	and	the	composition	of	his

or	her	personality	it	is	not	difficult	let	him	or	her	allow	these	elementals	to	come	to	the
surface	now	I	know	what	you	are	you	do	exist	in	me	in	my	subconsciousness	I	enter	in
my	subconsciousness	I	see	the	nature	of	my	personality	which	is	not	myself	because	I
am	the	sole	ego	self	study	them	and	now	take	my	decision	this	is	the	great	value	of	what
I	call	introspection	checking	and	looking	within	using	our	divine	nature	of	observation
and	using	the	mind	in	the	proper	way	that	means	being	real	human	beings	so	where
shall	we	reach	by	doing	these	introspection	exercises	in	some	time	to	find	the	truth	in
the	teachings	of	the	enlightened	ones	which	is	we	as	human	beings	have	three	bodies
with	their	etheric	doubles	the	moulds	in	which	they	are	built	now	we	find	this	great	truth
and	we	start	just	to	make	corrections	I	said	in	a	lesson	before	some	time	that	when	the
locust	caught	the	locust	and	the	holy	archangels	have	created	man	in	his	human	form	as
the	complete	circle	of	existence,	possibilities	and	probabilities	that	means	creating	a
perfect	human	body	which	the	holy	archangels	have	taken	from	the	divine	plan	started
from	the	spermatozoon	and	the	etheric	double	to	build	and	sustain	the	cross	material
body	which	does	not	concern	as	much	but	now	it	has	given	to	the	soul	spirit,	soul,	ego
self	of	ours	which	is	immortal	it	is	part	of	God	a	perfect	luminous	psychical	body	as	it
should	 be	 in	 its	 archangelic	 form	 which	 is	 kept	 in	 the	 ecophyte	 with	 us	 guardian
archangel,	our	guardian	angel	also	at	the	same	time	the	perfect	most	luminous	splendid
nautical	body	which	is	also	in	the	ecophyte	archangel,	our	guardian	angel	together	in
union	with	our	perfect	psychical	body	it	is	there	in	us,	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens
according	to	Joshua	Emmanuel	in	our	spirit,	soul,	selves	it	is	in	us	but	we	are	not	only
that	we	are	also	the	time	and	place	sinful	and	filthy	hearing	to	a	name	of	a	male	or	a
female	person	at	the	same	time	and	now	what	the	holy	archangels	and	the	locus	has
done	 has	 given	 to	 that	 personality	 a	 quantity	 of	 substance	 of	 the	 mind's	 psychical
substance	build	it	as	the	original	the	archetype	in	your	guardian	archangel	start	building
it	and	also	a	quantity	of	substance	super	substance	of	the	mind	now	build	it	just	to
create	and	make	your	nautical	body	come	on,	do	it	you	have	to	work	with	it	so	we	are
given	what	we	call	the	essence	of	emotions	of	desires	to	work	with	them	to	create	at	the
beginning	 human	 demons	 and	 later	 human	 angels	 and	 so	 the	 composition	 of	 these
elementals	which	are	living	entities	composing	our	personality	and	our	subconsciousness
is	what	we	call	our	petty	time	and	place	self	of	Maria	or	of	George	which	we	are	not	in
reality	we	are	the	ego	soul	self	shall	we	cast	away	Maria	and	George	even	our	time	and
place	petty	self	no	because	in	it	is	the	soul	self	also	we	are	not	going	to	destroy	our
personality	we	have	to	transmute	our	personality	into	our	soul	ego	individuality	that's
why	Joshua	Manuel	Decai	said	the	perishable	will	become	imperishable	and	the	mortal
will	 become	 immortal	 which	 means	 when	 we	 reach	 that	 level	 of	 our	 soul	 super
consciousness	we	can	leave	again	if	we	like	everything	concerning	Maria	and	George
because	they	will	stay	and	remain	living	elementals	in	the	cosmic	memory	in	the	cosmic
consciousness	so	nothing	is	lost	what	about	their	transgressions	their	behavior	well	that
will	 change	 that	 will	 change	 but	 now	 if	 we	 leave	 again	 reaching	 the	 self	 super
consciousness	and	being	able	to	attune	ourselves	to	these	levels	if	we	reach