

1-	The	God	of	Life	and	Love
Our	Father,	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	while	being	in	temptation,	and	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom
and	the	power	and	the	glory	forever.	Absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.
Everlasting	life,	love,	and	mercy.	Manifesting	yourself	in	yourself	as	your	total	wisdom
and	your	almightiness.	Lighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.
Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	What	can	be	a	reality	for	each	one	of	us	is	that	we	live.
We	live	in	a	cross-material	body.	We	can	touch	it,	feel	it.	We	are	feeling	we	are	living	in
it.
And	this	cross-material	body	has	on	it	certain	organs	giving	us	the	senses.	What	do	you
call	this	sight?	Seeing,	feeling,	smelling,	hearing,	living,	knowing	that	we	are	living.	This
is	a	reality	for	us.
Through	these	senses	and	especially	through	the	sight,	we	know	that	around	us	is	what
we	call	the	cross-material	world.	The	world	of	forms.	The	world	full	of	phenomena	of	life.
Living	forms	around	us.	And	we	are	just	asking	ourselves,	what	is	life?	What	are	these
living	forms	moving	about	us	and	near	us?	What	is	this	phenomenon	of	life?	Is	that
coincidence?	Many	materialists	say	so.	Stupid	conclusion.
Is	what	we	call	life,	phenomena	of	life	around	us,	the	product	of	matter,	of	the	cross-
matter	around	us?	This	can't	be	because	matter	is	the	same.	Yet	for	us	human	beings,
it's	stupid	to	believe	it.	First	we	see	around	us	many	other	persons	behaving	in	a	wiser	or
in	less	wise,	not	to	say	stupid,	way.
We	are	examining	their	blood,	their	cool	blood,	it's	the	same.	The	quality	of	the	blood,
yes.	The	flesh,	everything	is	not	different.
The	bodies,	exactly	the	same.	Sometimes	the	same	size.	Yet	the	personalities	living	in
those	bodies	are	so	different.
Why?	So	a	personality	cannot	be	the	product	of	the	cross-matter,	definitely.	So,	then
another	 question	 is	 coming	 forward.	 I	 can	 detect	 life,	 see	 life	 in	 many	 different
phenomena	of	life	all	around	me.
Later	I	shall	just	study	what	is	life.	But	now	another	more	pressing	question	comes.	What
is	the	personality	of	a	man,	of	a	human	being?	What	am	I	as	a	personality?	To	do	that,	I

must	just	pay	attention	and	concentrate	on	the	reactions	in	my	personality.
What	is	going	on?	I	get	knowledge	of	the	outside	world	through	my	senses,	especially
through	sight.	But	all	of	these	things	do	not	happen	to	everybody	around	me	who	have
eyes	to	see	and	are	living.	Why	am	I	impressed	by	this	or	that	thing	or	things	and	the
others	are	not	impressed?	Why	am	I	influenced	by	certain	conditions	in	life	and	the
others	are	not?	So	I	have	now	to	study	the	personality	of	a	human	being.
By	observation,	concentration,	I	can	reach	the	relative	truth,	the	relative	truth,	the	truth
by	comparison.	Because	the	absolute	truth	cannot	be	known	in	the	material	world	or	in
the	psychical	world	or	in	the	ethical	world.	It's	beyond	the	truth.
The	relative	truth,	we	can	understand	it	by	comparison	with	two	things.	You	can	say,
yes,	this	is	different	than	the	other,	this	is	better	than	the	other,	that's	true,	but	that's
better	than	the	other.	This	is	the	relative	truth.
The	real	truth,	we	cannot	understand	it,	at	least	starting	the	phenomenon	of	life,	the
cross-material	world.	Now,	what's	the	truth?	Can	we	find	the	truth	sometime?	Of	course
we	can.	How?	By	studying	everything	around	us,	finding	out	the	illusions	in	everything
around	us,	given	us	through	the	five	senses,	we	can	detect	at	the	beginning	and	find	the
truth	behind	everything.
Because	behind	all	the	phenomena	of	life,	behind	every	illusion	is	the	reality.	If	the
illusion	is	the	shadow,	there	must	be	light,	there	must	be	something	between	the	light
and	the	shadow,	and	here	is	the	shadow.	But	I	can	detect	seeing	the	shadow	and	the
thing	in	front	of	the	shadow	and	the	light	behind	it.
The	light	is	the	truth.	So,	that's	another	matter	that	we	study.	Another	matter,	just
torturing	the	minds	of	certain	people,	even	the	educated	ones,	the	so-called	educated
ones,	is	the	existence	of	God.
Of	course	we	can't	say	that	all	educated	people	are	not	believing	in	God.	Some	of	them,
they	don't.	Some	of	them,	they	do	believe.
In	which	God	do	they	believe?	Definitely	not	the	God	of	the	priests.	They	are	right.	They
are	right.
Now,	putting	the	question,	does	God	exist?	Is	there	a	God?	Now,	we	must	make	the
definition,	what	do	we	mean	by	God,	and	a	God?	Because	it's	a	word	used	giving	to	the
human	 beings	 different	 impressions	 and	 different	 way	 of	 understanding	 maybe
something	superior	to	the	human	beings.	But	what	can	we	know	about	God?	What	is
God?	And	how	can	we	detect	and	find	God?	And	find	God	where?	Now,	I'm	asking	you,
does	God	exist?	Definitely	God	exists.	Is	God	existing	only?	Of	course	not.
Because	in	the	world	of	existence,	everything	must	have	a	beginning	and	an	end	and	a

form.	This	is	the	law	of	the	world	of	separateness	in	the	world	of	existence.	So,	if	God	is
simply	a	phenomenon,	like	all	other	phenomena,	living	phenomena,	all	around	us,	then
God	must	have	a	beginning	and	an	end.
Things	have	a	beginning	and	an	end.	They	had	it	always	all	through	the	past	centuries,
now	and	in	future.	But	that	means	that	God	is	the	source	of	everything	existing.
So,	I	can	see	God	now	beyond	the	phenomenon	of	life,	beyond	time	and	a	place,	space,
beyond	the	world	of	the	three	dimensions.	So,	I	must	find	God	even	in	the	world	of
existence	and	beyond.	How	can	I	do	that?	Do	I	have	the	means	of	doing	it?	Of	course,	we
have	it.
As	we	are	given	the	air	full	of	vitality,	oxygen	and	everything,	to	breathe	and	our	body,
material	body,	to	live,	so	we	are	given	the	mind,	that	super	substance,	our	selfhood	to
breathe	it,	know	and	live	in	it,	the	world	of	existence.	What	is	life	now?	Can	we	come	to
conclusions	on	what	is	life	only	by	studying	the	billions	and	before,	beyond	numbers
phenomena	of	life?	Not	exactly,	but	I	can	just	understand	something.	So	that	all	those
phenomena	of	life,	living	forms	exist,	it	must	be	life.
And	life	is	not	only	in	the	phenomena.	Now,	what	is	life?	I	can	see	life	in	various	stages.	I
see	 life,	 kind	 of	 life,	 I	 can	 sense	 this	 life	 on	 the	 cross-material	 body,	 as	 sensitivity,
sensibility,	in	the	crystals,	in	the	metals,	everywhere.
They	are	living.	And	now	orthodox	science,	by	splitting	the	atom,	by	studying	the	atom
in	 the	 cross-matter,	 found	 in	 it	 the	 total	 wisdom	 behind	 it,	 as	 motion,	 movement,
existing.	Yes,	orthodox	science,	sooner	or	later,	will	find	out	the	truth.
So,	what	is	motion	now?	These	are	things	that	should	engage	the	mind	of	a	researcher	of
the	truth,	to	find	out	the	truth	behind	it.	Definitely	God	is	not	what	some	religions	and
some	people	believe	it	is.	It	is,	not	He	is,	because	God	is	beyond	sex.
And	what	is	now?	God.	Life.	The	everlasting	life.
And	living	God	is	in	us,	and	we	are	in	God's	omnipresence.	So,	God	is	not	away	from	us,
or	far	away	from	us.	We	are	in	it,	and	God	is	in	us.
So	now,	making	use	of	that	great,	great	gift	given	us	by	God,	the	mind,	and	by	mind	I
don't	mean	that	handful	of	material,	cross-matter	in	the	skull.	I	call	mind,	I	am	calling	the
formless	super-substance,	from	which	I	myself	can	create	now	living	forms.	So	that's
another	branch	of	study	now.
What	 is	 the	 mind?	 What	 are	 my	 possibilities	 in	 using	 the	 mind?	 What	 are	 those
possibilities?	In	knowing	everything,	and	detecting	our	real	self	behind	our	time	and
place	personality,	which	is	the	shadow	of	ourselves,	and	not	our	real	self.	We	can	find
what	we	are,	and	who	we	are.	What	are	we	in	the	everlasting	life,	as	a	selfhood,	and	how

do	we	exist	manifesting	a	petty	time	and	place,	little	self,	from	nothing,	nothing	comes,
and	from	the	absolute	infinite	selfhood	of	our	beingness,	our	petty	little	personality,	self,
comes	out.
So,	through	that,	I	can	detect	my	nature,	and	the	nature	of	everything	around	us.	Now,
what's	God?	Life,	the	everlasting	life.	We	admit	that.
What	are	the	qualities	now	of	God?	Can	God	just	deeper	in	studying	God?	Studying	God,
by	studying	the	phenomena,	all	the	phenomena	of	life	around	us	on	the	material	plane,	I
can	detect	in	God	his	total	wisdom,	what	I	call	the	superintelligence.	Of	course,	that
superintelligence	exists,	because	if	that	didn't	exist,	how	could	we,	in	our	personality,
develop	what	we	call	human	intelligence?	From	nothing,	nothing	comes.	And	these	are
our	relations	to	God.
And	studying	all	the	phenomena	of	life,	in	their	form,	I	can	detect	and	find	the	total
wisdom	of	the	infinite	beingness.	So,	we	study	life	in	the	cross-material	world,	metals,
crystals,	everything	there,	to	see	what	I	call	sensibility	or	sensitivity.	But	I	can	study	it
now,	in	what	we	call	the	vegetable	kingdom,	in	trees,	in	bushes,	in	everything.
And	I	see	that	this	vegetable	kingdom,	billions	and	billions	of	forms,	have	the	same
characteristics.	Definitely,	a	form	of	their	own,	following	a	wisely	circle	of	possibilities.	No
kind	of	life	can	escape	from	its	circle	of	possibilities.
Who	 fixed	 that	 circle	 of	 possibilities?	 For	 each	 phenomenon	 of	 life,	 unless	 a
superintelligence,	in	its	omnipresence,	so	we	can	detect	that,	by	studying	any	or	more
phenomena	of	life	around	us.	What	else	are	these	characteristics	of	God	I	can	trace,
besides	what	I	call	the	total	wisdom	and	the	all-mightiness?	Because	nothing	is	beyond
the	control	of	the	superintelligence,	deciding	about	the	circles	of	existence,	the	circles	of
possibilities	of	all	forms	of	life.	Only	stupid	people	cannot	see	all	that,	or	those	who	are
not	willing	to	study	all	that.
So,	I	see	now	God,	as	life	in	what	we	call	the	vegetable	kingdom.	Forms	of	life,	rooted	on
the	ground,	and	the	only	motion	and	movement	in	them,	is	getting	through	their	roots,
substances	and	the	water,	to	grow,	grow,	grow	up,	and	give	us	what?	Each	kind	of	a
phenomenon	of	life	in	the	vegetable	kingdom,	kingdom	will	give	me	its	flowers,	its	fruits.
So,	completing	a	circle	of	its	possibilities,	and	in	the	fruit,	I	find	the	total	wisdom	of	the
infinite	beingness,	the	possibility	now,	and	the	power	of	recreation.
You	can	find	it	in	every	seed,	in	every	kind	of	vegetables.	Beauty,	the	flowers,	and	the
form,	and	the	shape	of	the	trees.	Harmony.
We	cannot	see	all	that.	And	really,	this	vegetable	kingdom	is	making	our	planet	a	kind	of
paradise,	a	very	good	paradise	to	live	in.	Then	what	do	we	see	more?	As	life	in	form,
because	the	main	characteristic	of	the	phenomenon	of	life	is	a	form,	their	form.

Billions,	I	said,	and	beyond	numbers	of	forms.	Now	we	come	to	the	animal	kingdom.
Now,	this	kind	of	life	has	a	body,	a	form,	not	fixed	on	the	ground,	not	rooted	on	the
ground,	but	moving	about.
So,	in	this	kingdom,	I	find	different	characteristics.	In	the	vegetable	kingdom,	I	find	just
that	 sensitivity	 or	 sensibility.	 Now	 I	 find,	 in	 this	 animal	 kingdom,	 what	 I	 call	 the
instinctive	consciousness.
Now,	I	find	a	kind	of	consciousness,	receptivity.	Can	you	use	that	word?	Yes,	and	I	find	it,
this	kind	of	indistinct.	We	can	study	that.
And	still	I	find	instinct	in	various	stages,	studying	the	life	of	animal	life	all	around	us.
Besides	that,	I	can	study	their	form.	Studying	their	forms,	studying	the	organs	in	the
bodies	of	the	animals,	then	I	find	the	total	wisdom	of	the	Almighty.
Everything	placed	in	its	own	place	to	function	in	its	own	way	to	keep	that	whole	system
in	life.	Each	organ	protected	according	to	its	importance.	That's	what	I	call	the	absolute
super-intelligence.
We	can	see	it	in	a	snail,	in	a	tortoise,	in	a	worm,	in	a	butterfly.	Everywhere	we	can	see
this	 total	 wisdom	 and	 the	 Almightiness.	 Nothing	 can	 escape	 from	 its	 circle	 of
possibilities.
That's	life.	Now,	in	the	animal	kingdom,	seeing	everything	around	us.	Now,	what	about
man?	What	about	a	human	being?	We	are	human	beings.
We	are	men.	What	we	are	doing,	can	the	animals	do?	Can	the	animals	use	the	mind?	The
mind	is	not	in	the	head	of	a	human	being.	It's	everywhere	in	the	omnipresence	of	God.
Because	their	mind	is	not	in	human	brains.	Everywhere.	The	animals	cannot	use	it.
Why?	At	least	consciously.	They	are	using	it	instinctively.	Because	everything	is	mind
and	everything	is	made	of	the	mind.
They	 cannot	 go	 beyond	 their	 instinct.	 No	 animal	 has	 ever	 solved	 a	 mathematical
problem	or	tried	to	create	rockets	and	satellites	or	computers	or	just	used	the	gross
material	to	make	televisions	and	all	that.	We	are	coming	from	the	apes.
That's	 an	 insult	 to	 God	 and	 the	 greatest	 stupidity	 because	 Darwin	 is	 the	 most
blasphemous	scientist.	Nothing	can	escape	from	its	circle	of	possibilities.	If	that	was	so,
why	all	the	apes?	Now,	why	do	apes	exist	and	they	didn't	become,	one	of	them,	human?
So,	what's	our	difference	now	from	all	the	animal	life	all	around	us?	We	can	use	the
super	substance	to	hold	the	mind	in	a	different	way	and	in	the	way	prescribed	also.
Because	in	our	bodies	we	have	the	instincts.	In	our	bodies	we	have	that	sensitivity.	In
our	bodies	we	have	this	subconsciousness	which	we	can	study	all	these	expressions	of

life	in	the	phenomenon	of	life	called	human	being.
But	we	go	further.	A	human	being	can	express	a	self.	Yes,	a	self.
Even	being	a	creation	in	time	and	place	and	circumstances,	that	self	till	its	nature	is
divine.	We	are	gods	and	not	animals.	And	gods	and	animals,	maybe.
But	that	doesn't	mean	that	we	are	not	gods	behaving	like	an	animal	or	sometimes	are
very	wild	beasts.	That's	a	different	thing.	Now,	our	beingness,	our	self,	even	the	petty
self	of	a	human	being,	male	or	female,	as	Mary	and	George,	is	God	in	its	nature.
Now,	in	the	expressions	it's	a	different	thing	and	you	have	to	study	these	differences
between	our	nature	and	certain	expressions	of	our	nature	which	in	reality	is	not	our	self.
Because	by	introspection,	studying	the	matter,	we	will	find	out	that	we	are	not	that
behavior.	We	detect	that	artificial	self,	the	shadow	of	the	self,	which	is	not	our	self,	which
is	the	egoism	of	our	personality.
So	now	matters	are	more	difficult	to	study	in	a	human	being.	We	have	to	study	the
personality.	 We	 study	 how	 this	 personality	 is	 using	 the	 so-called	 five	 senses,	 the
reactions	in	it,	the	influences	by	the	surroundings,	and	the	counteractions	created,	I
mean	now,	desires,	emotions,	and	using	in	the	wrong	way	thought,	the	mind,	just	to
serve	all	these	desires	and	emotions.
So	one	should	study	now	seriously	his	own	personality	which	is	nearly	similar	at	all	in	the
circumstances	and	in	the	nature	of	the	personality.	So	studying	our	own	personality,	we
cannot	say	we	know	the	personalities	of	all	people,	but	we	can	know	the	causes	creating
those	reactions	in	those	personalities	and	in	our	personality.	So	now	we	come	to	a	very
serious	study.
How?	By	using	now	the	mind	as	observation,	attention,	concentration,	and	meditation	to
know	 what	 is	 what,	 what's	 that,	 what's	 that,	 what's	 that,	 something	 the	 animal	 life
cannot	do.	Gods	only	can	do	it,	even	disguised	as	animals.	Then	what	we	find	out	by
studying	our	personality?	First	that	we	are	not	what	we	thought	we	were,	and	we	are
something	very	different.
We'll	understand	that	we	are	not	our	desires	and	our	feelings,	because	all	those	are
changing	all	the	time.	So	we	have	to	study	now	the	nature	of	desire,	the	nature	of	the
feelings,	how	they	are	coming	forward,	how	these	feelings	and	desires	are	affecting	us,
how	we	behave,	and	what	is	the	outcome	of	that	behavior.	So	it	needs	now	to	study	to
find	out	at	the	end	what?	That	we	are	gods,	we	are	the	ones	who	have	the	right	and	the
power	to	change	everything	in	our	life	as	a	personality,	to	change	desires,	emotions,	free
the	mind	from	serving	all	the	desires	and	emotions,	and	use	the	mind	now,	even	by
using	the	material	brains,	in	a	better	way.
And	 by	 using	 the	 mind	 now,	 as	 a	 clear,	 clear	 crystal	 mirror	 now,	 I	 see	 myself,	 my

selfhood	reflected	in	it.	I	will	see	a	god.	What	will	make	me	sure	that	I'm	a	god?	Because
I	can	change	everything.
If	I'm	not	my	material	body,	and	I	can	master	it,	become	the	master	of	his	material	body,
never	mind	that	now,	that	body	is	just	influencing	my	present	personality,	which	is	not
myself.	I	can	change	my	desires	and	emotions,	control	my	emotions,	which	means	that	I
am	not	the	emotions.	I	can	change	the	thoughts,	the	mind.
He	has	used	it,	which	means	I	am	not	the	mind,	I	am	not	the	thoughts.	What	am	I	then?
The	master	of	it.	I'm	not	less.
To	all	that,	I	am	more	than	all	that.	And	by	thought,	by	introspection,	and	this	kind	of
research,	 I	 see	 that	 I	 can	 use	 other	 senses	 as	 well,	 apart	 from	 the	 five	 senses,	 so
important	to	me.	They	are	so	good	for	me	as	a	human	being.
They	are.	But	now	I	can	see	something	else.	I	have	super	senses.
I	can	expand	that	self	of	mine	beyond	the	body	in	many	places,	get	impressions,	which	I
call	that	clairvoyance,	clairaudience,	many,	many	other	things	in	super	senses,	which	do
not	have	an	English	name	or	Greek	name	or	any	name.	You	have	just	to	practice	them,
to	know	them	and	use	them.	This	is	making	you	sure	that	you	are	now	a	God.
For	you	now,	what	is	written	by	Joshua	Emmanuel,	the	Christ	in	the	Bible,	has	much
meaning,	 which	 didn't	 give	 any	 meaning	 before.	 Now	 you	 know	 what	 life	 and	 the
qualities	of	life	as	light,	light,	light	emanating	from	the	sun.	That's	light	also,	but	that's
not	the	only	light.
You	have	the	light	of	the	world,	apart	from	the	light	from	the	sun.	In	Joshua	Emmanuel,
the	Christ,	presenting	his	divine	self,	he	said,	I	am	the	light	of	the	world.	I	am	the	way,
the	course	of	things.
I	am	the	way,	the	truth,	and	life.	He	defines	himself	as	the	life,	and	he's	showing	us	in
the	New	Testament	what	life	really	means	and	what	we	are	in	life,	and	what	is	life	to	us.
We	are	not	the	phenomenon	of	life.
We	are	life	behind	it,	and	I	can	lay	down	myself	as	a	phenomenon	of	life,	as	Joshua
Emmanuel	the	Christ	says,	they	can	take	it	back	anytime	I	like.	So,	do	we	become
masters	of	life?	No,	we	are	life.	We'll	find	out	that	we	are	life.
That	selfhood	of	ours	is	a	part	of	the	infinite	absolute	selfhood	life,	but	we	can	manage	to
control	the	phenomenon	of	life,	and	even	the	phenomenon	of	life,	which	you	call	a
human	being.	So,	we	are	beyond	a	human	being,	as	God.	Did	anybody	until	now	reach
that	stage?	Many,	too	many	on	the	planet,	all	through	the	centuries.
We	call	them	the	enlightened	ones.	Yes,	and	everyone	can	do	that,	or	rather,	I	will	put	it

in	a	better	way,	everyone	sooner	or	later	has	to	do	that.	The	prodigal	son	has	to	return
back	home	to	the	self-realization,	to	know	God	after	all.
He	is,	even	as	a	human	being.	Not	something,	I	am	just	to	let	you	know.	Shall	we	lay
down	completely	our	human	existence?	Who	are	we	to	call	our	human	existence?	I	mean
the	human	form.
Unless	we	had	it	always.	That	was	our	nature.	Our	nature	as	an	array	of	selfhood.
Why	did	we	choose?	That	human	form.	Detecting,	I	am	speaking	of	my	own	experiences.
We	always	have	that	human	form,	luminous,	divine,	and	that's	what	we	call	our	spiritual
body.
A	body	luminous	in	a	human	form,	incorruptible,	everlasting.	We	always	had	it.	We	have
it	in	our	bodies	now,	and	we'll	always	have	it	in	eternity.
That's	what	we	call	our	self-soul.	So,	soul	is	a	reality.	More	reality	than	the	human
bodies.
We	 are	 changing	 all	 the	 time	 by	 reincarnation,	 because	 that's	 the	 corruptible	 and
eternal,	everlasting.	And	do	you	see	that?	Once	passing	through	the	idea	of	man,	the
heavenly	 man,	 according	 to	 the	 Bible,	 we	 are	 dressing	 ourselves	 with	 this	 human
luminous	form.	Now	we	had	it.
Now	we	get	light	around	it.	We	cannot	have	something.	We	don't	have	it	already.
But	by	passing	through	the	idea	of	man,	to	be	humanized,	it	means	to	gather	around	our
human	 immortal	 form,	 material.	 The	 mind	 elements	 ignore	 the	 states	 of	 existence.
Phonetical,	phonetic,	super-substantial,	the	psychical,	and	the	cross-material.
Because	even	the	cross-material	body	is	mind.	Everything	is	made	of	mind.	The	stones
are	solid	mind.
So,	now	we	are	approaching	the	truth.	Gaining	what?	And	who	is	gaining	it?	Gaining	the
self-super-consciousness.	But	who	is	gaining	it?	Our	soul	ego.
It	 always	 has	 it.	 No.	 Our	 present	 personality,	 improving	 itself,	 storing	 in	 itself,	 as	 a
permanent	personality,	all	the	experiences	through	all	the	incarnations.
So,	 we	 are	 losing	 nothing.	 We	 are	 gaining	 everything.	 Shall	 we	 call	 that	 so-called
permanent	personality?	Our	soul,	part	of	our	soul,	not	only	our	soul,	because	our	soul	is
also	beyond	the	present-day	personality.
Now,	who	is	studying	all	these	things?	Mary	and	George.	Two	human	beings	under	so
many	weaknesses,	so	much	confusion,	are	doing	it.	Now,	we	are	doing	it	all	this	time	as
the	permanent	soul	of	our	soul,	without	knowing	it.

Making	the	mistake	to	see	all	the	mirror	of	the	mind,	matter,	the	psychical	substance
and	the	nautical	super-substance,	a	reflection,	which	is	not	really	our	self.	We	are	not	a
reflection.	Because	breaking	those	mirrors,	and	God	is	doing	it	in	every	incarnation,
breaking	it	for	us,	to	understand	that	we	are	not	a	reflection,	we	are	not	the	image	in	the
mirrors.
And	the	image	in	the	mirrors,	this	three-fold	mirror	material,	psychical	and	nautical,	are
distorting	our	selfhood.	They	are	presenting	sometimes	an	angel	of	light	as	a	monster,
according	 to	 their	 cleanliness.	 So,	 can	 we	 clean	 these	 mirrors,	 so	 that	 we	 reflect
ourselves	in	a	better	way?	We	can	do	even	that,	by	what	I	call	introspection,	finding	the
truth.
So,	we	are	God,	even	as	a	human	being,	is	God.	The	heart,	the	parts	of	life	in	our	bodies,
the	parts	of	life	in	our	personality,	is	God.	And	that	God	has	to	set	itself	free	from	the
illusions,	from	matter.
No,	no	need,	from	the	illusions	of	matter.	Because	one	can	live	in	a	material	body,	not
being	the	slave	of	that	material	body,	he	can	live	with	his	emotions	purified	now,	and	the
right	thoughts,	living	in	a	material	body,	and	feeling	being	God.	So,	who	will	be	according
to	the	Church,	saved,	going	to	salvation?	They	are	not	suggesting.
What	it	is	stated	in	the	New	Testament	is	the	prodigal	son	returning	back	home.	That's
all.	That's	clear	in	the	parable.
Who	is	it?	We.	So,	we	have	to	find	ourselves,	even	in	our	thoughts,	in	our	emotions,
behind	them,	behind	our	thoughts,	by	introspection,	which	means	using	all	these	things,
controlling	all	these	things,	cleaning	those,	that	three-fold	mirror,	the	body,	the	psychical
body,	and	the	egotical	body,	to	reflect	our	real	image.	Because	we	are	image	of	God
according	to	its	likeness.
It's	clearly	stated	in	the	Bible.	And	so,	the	Bible	has	in	it	all	the	truth,	though	covered.
You	have	to	uncover	it,	to	unveil	it.
So,	what	is	now	the	duty,	not	of	a	seeker	of	the	truth	only,	but	of	every	human	being?
Every	human	being	is	exactly	in	the	place,	destiny,	or	the	law	of	cause	and	effect,
destined	him	to	live,	to	learn	the	next	lesson.	Bitter	or	less	bitter,	sometimes	sweet
experiences.	Not	even	a	leaf	is	dropping	out	of	a	tree,	unless	it's	the	will	of	God.
That's	what	Joshua	the	Christ	said,	when	he	was	in	front	of	Pilate.	And	Pilate	just	heard,
of	course,	about	the	teaching	of	Christ.	He	didn't	care	much	of	it,	though	his	wife	was
listening	to	the	preaching	of	Christ	very	often.
He	wanted	just	that	critical	moment,	to	ask	him	certain	very	deep	questions.	What's
truth?	What's	the	truth?	Why	she	should	make	this	question	to	a	so-called	criminal?	So,
he	knew	much	about	the	teaching	of	Christ.	What	did	Christ	tell	him?	Nothing,	because

to	tell	him	what's	truth,	he	would	not	understand.
He	was	not	ready	to	understand.	Of	course,	the	governor	got	angry	and	said,	don't	you
see	that	I	have	the	power	of	releasing	you	or	crucifying	you?	To	watch	him	speak.	Yes,
Christ	spoke.
What	did	he	say?	You	don't	have	any	right	on	me	unless	it	is	given	you	from	above.
Which	means,	unless	this	is	the	will	of	God.