

2
Of	course	it	is.	In	those	worlds	of	existence,	do	exist	mountains,	colours,	trees,	seas,
lakes,	everything	you	can	see	on	the	cross-material	world,	and	much,	much,	much	more,
which	you	don't	have	in	the	cross-material	world.	More	colours.
Better	sounds.	There	are	more	real	worlds	than	this	cross-material	world,	because	we
are	 aware	 of	 the	 cross-material	 world	 only	 through	 the	 five	 senses.	 Sight,	 hearing,
smelling,	and	feeling.
But	there	you	develop	also	different	senses,	just	according	to	the	world	you	will	be	living
in.	What	corresponds	to	sight	there?	Seeing	again,	but	how?	Now,	in	the	cross-material
world,	you	may	have	damage	in	the	eyes,	and	you	become	blind.	Is	that	possible	in	the
psychical	world?	Are	there	blind	people	in	the	psychical	world?	No!	Sight	there	is	perfect.
Do	you	need	the	eyes	to	see?	Now	I	speak	of	my	own	experiences,	and	the	experiences
of	others	living	in	the	psychical	world.	Usually	we	are	using	the	eyes,	but	in	reality	we
can	see	everywhere	without	using	the	eyes.	You	can	stand	in	the	psychical	world	and
see	 things	 behind	 you,	 under,	 above,	 here,	 there,	 by	 what	 I	 call	 expansion	 of	 the
consciousness.
So	what	is	the	means	of	seeing?	The	eyes,	or	the	self-awareness	and	the	consciousness?
Something	like	that	you	can	have	in	the	material	world,	I	call	it	telepathy.	In	a	moment
seeing	things	far	away,	with	the	hot	eyes	you	are	seeing	them,	with	the	cross-material
eyes,	just	two	little	balls	full	of	water.	Is	that	what	you	call	sight?	No!	So	there	is	nobody
as	individuality,	soul	being,	blind,	in	the	so-called	psychical	world.
In	 the	 neurotic	 world,	 how	 do	 you	 see	 things?	 Can	 you	 see	 things	 there,	 mountains,
lakes,	things?	Yes,	everything.	But	they	are	not	as	you	see	them	in	the	cross-material
world.	Definitely	they	are	worlds	of	forms,	luminous	forms.
There	 you	 have	 also	 the	 sense	 of	 solid,	 liquid,	 gaseous,	 and	 all	 the	 other	 things,	 but
these	are	feelings.	But	there	is	more	light,	the	super-light.	It	is	the	mind	as	light.
Now,	it	is	difficult	to	explain	to	you	how,	but	you	gain	such	super-senses	as	expansion,
and	 what	 you	 are	 using	 in	 the	 material	 world,	 attunement	 to.	 You	 can	 use	 all	 these
powers	in	the	cross-material	world,	and	you	have	to	develop	them	here	to	have	them
there.	All	are	entering	in	these	worlds,	but	as	blind	people,	here	in	the	cross-material
world,	 cannot	 see	 the	 cross-material	 world	 around	 them,	 and	 the	 beauties	 of	 nature
around	them,	so	you	are	entering	every	night.
Or	you	are	even	now	in	those	worlds,	but	you	are	not	aware	of	them.	Unless	you	become
able	to	receive	those	vibrations	of	those	worlds.	I	am	telling	you,	I	speak	from	my	own
experiences.

Those	worlds	are	more	real	worlds	than	the	cross-material	world.	There,	you	don't	need
the	cross-material	brains	to	think.	And	I	am	telling	you,	having	difficult	things	to	think
about,	I	am	getting	out	of	my	body,	just	to	elaborate	with	them,	and	come	back	and
impress	them	in	my	cross-material	mind.
Because	 I	 am	 telling	 you,	 the	 cross-material	 mind	 is	 just	 two	 lobes	 of	 matter.	 And	 it
creates	great	difficulty	to	get	what	I	call	real	thoughts.	So,	now,	the	seeker	of	the	truth
has	to	study	seriously,	by	observation,	using	the	mind.
What	 is	 emotion?	 What	 is	 the	 relation	 of	 emotions,	 desires	 and	 feelings	 with	 forms?
Because	every	elemental	has	its	own	form.	The	mercy	of	God	is	not	to	allow	us	to	see
the	human-demon	elementals	we	are	creating.	Because	if	we	are	not	to	feel	frightened
of	what	we	are	creating,	at	least	we	will	feel	ashamed.
With	the	bad	use	we	are	making	of	the	mind,	transforming	it	into	human-demons,	is	very
bad,	thoughtful.	So,	entering	in	these	kingdoms,	self-consciously,	you	have	to	develop
this	 self-consciousness	 here	 from	 the	 cross-material	 world.	 This	 is	 what	 Joshua
Emmanuel	the	Christ,	who	was	teaching	his	disciples,	all	the	time.
And	you	have	to	cast	away	from	you	that	weight	which	is	keeping	you	down	on	Earth.
Which	are	these	heavy	weights	we	have	in	us?	Our	desires,	our	emotions,	our	illusions.
We	have	to	take	them	away.
Now,	a	seeker	of	the	truth,	in	introspection,	I	said,	he	has	the	duty	to	check	and	see	the
quality	and	the	nature	of	his	subconsciousness,	of	his	personality,	of	his	desires,	of	his
emotions,	of	his	weaknesses.	Of	passions	in	his	personality.	After	all,	apart	from	being
the	duty	of	everybody	to	do	that,	it	is	for	his	interest.
Because	keeping	in	your	subconsciousness	all	these	wicked	passions	and	things,	you	are
poisoning	your	cross-material	body.	That's	why	you	have	now,	in	our	world,	so	many
illnesses.	Appearing	all	the	time,	torturing	the	human	being,	torturing	the	human	body.
So	 it	 is	 for	 the	 interest	 of	 everybody	 to	 cast	 away	 from	 his	 personality	 many,	 many
poisonous	 things	 that	 are	 injuring	 the	 cross-material	 body.	 So,	 now,	 I	 said,	 in
introspection,	it	needs	time,	sincerity.	By	bringing	forward,	using	your	divine	powers	of
recollection,	remembering,	what	you	call	it,	and	seeing	things	in	forms,	you	have	just	to
study	this	ability	of	yours.
Now,	 what	 happened	 some	 hours	 before?	 Going	 out.	 Just	 a	 quarter.	 You	 have	 seen
things.
And	though	you	don't	see	them	self-consciously,	by	observation,	still,	you	get	them.	And,
after	hours,	you	may	sit	quietly.	And	you	can	see	the	whole	scene.
Seeing	people.	Going	there.	See	the	people	with	whom	you	came	in	clash,	and	all	that.

Study	this	ability	of	bringing	forward,	up	to	your	consciousness,	forms	of	persons	and
things	which	have	happened.	This	is	what	gives	you	your	divine	nature.	And	you	have	to
develop	it.
By	observation.	Seeing	all	that.	Studying	all	that.
You	find	yourself.	Who	am	I?	Who	am	I	doing	all	that?	And	I	can	use	now	the	mind	as
reasoning	and	exercise	my	divine	powers	of	getting	decisions.	Deciding.
So,	it	is	for	our	benefit	to	start	the	introspection.	I'm	telling	you,	it	is	not	an	easy	thing	to
do	 that.	 Because,	 all	 the	 time,	 your	 personality's	 egoism	 will	 appear	 to	 reason	 his
wickedness.
Because,	I	am	telling	you,	the	egoism	of	the	personality	is	very,	very	wicked.	And	you
have	to	admit	that	and	realize	that	so	that	we	shall	transmute	someday	that	egoism	to	a
real	ego.	Shall	we	call	that	repentance?	Now,	I	don't	want	to	become	a	churchman.
I	would	like,	rather,	to	see	things	scientifically.	I	would	say	that	in	this	world	and	in	all	the
worlds	are	lost.	And	especially,	what	we	call	the	law	of	cause	and	effect.
And	by	using,	reasoning,	observing	things,	studying	things,	we'll	be	wandering	at	the
great	 wisdom	 of	 the	 intelligences	 ruling	 the	 world.	 So,	 it	 is	 worse.	 Just	 practicing	 the
introspection	and	what	I	would	call	a	real	meditation.
Because	you	have	meditations	which	lead	nowhere.	You	have	the	meditations	which	lead
just	to	the	knowledge	of	what	we	are	studying,	what	we	are	doing.	So,	now,	I	will	not
attempt	to	tell	you	about	the	splendors	of	this	heavenly	life.
Because	it	is	impossible.	Even	what	I	know	with	which	words	I	will	tell	you.	The	only	thing
I	will	tell	you	is	this.
There	are	words	of	bliss	and	happiness.	There	are	words	where	prevails	the	self-super-
consciousness.	As	soul,	ego-self.
Manifesting	 its	 divine	 powers	 of	 expansion	 and	 entering	 in	 the	 oneness	 of	 the	 locus.
Entering	in	the	oneness	of	the	locus	means	enjoying	everything	in	the	oneness	of	the
locus.	Because	many	have	asked,	yes,	we	are	entering	in	the	oneness	of	the	locus.
What	is	that?	Entering	in	the	oneness	of	the	locus.	Entering	in	the	oneness	of	the	locus
means	enjoying	what	is	in	the	oneness	of	the	locus.	This	is	the	great	pleasure.
And	returning	to	the	cross-material	world,	this	is	as	if	from	a	splendid,	lovely,	well-lighted
place	you	enter	in	a	dark	underground	of	the	same	building	which	is	the	cross-material
world.	 And	 let	 it	 be	 also	 a	 paradise.	 Because	 I	 find	 even	 the	 cross-material	 world	 a
paradise.

And	it	is.	Now,	something	more	I	can	say.	The	four-dimensional	and	the	five-dimensional
worlds	coincide	in	certain	sub-planes.
But	still	they	are	different	in	certain	other	sub-planes.	And	by	observation,	I'm	telling
you,	when	you	are	self-conscious	in	this	world,	in	the	ethical	and	the	psychical	world,	you
are	free	to	go	anywhere,	in	any	place,	in	any	sub-plane,	you	wish	to.	But	if	you	become
the	master	of	those	worlds,	because	those	who	are	in	lower	sub-planes,	they	cannot	go
to	a	higher	plane	or	sub-plane,	unless	they	cast	away	from	them	the	weight	that	keeps
them	there.
And	 this	 weight	 has	 certain	 qualities	 in	 their	 personality.	 So	 we	 have	 to	 clean	 our
individuality	from	the	rags	of	the	personality.	And	how?	The	first	thing	you	need	is	get	rid
of	that	egoistic	tendency	of	always	wishing,	having	and	getting	from	others.
And	get	in	yourself	the	wish	to	give	to	others.	Take	away	those	dirty	garments	wrapped
in	your	personality,	which	I	call	selfishness.	Very	heavy.
Very	heavy	indeed	weight	to	let	you	enter	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens.	You	have	to
throw	it	away.	Selfishness	has	nothing	to	do	with	the	self-loving	attitude.
After	purifying	the	petty	self	of	the	present-day	personality,	transmuting	it	into	your	ego
self.	But	now	we	shall	see	the	self.	What	do	you	mean	by	self	now?	That's	a	very	great
problem	to	study.
Because	when	I	tell	you	what	does	it	mean	self	and	yourself?	Of	course	Maria	would	say,
Me?	Dressed	with	all	the	rags	of	the	impressions	of	Maria	concerning	life.	That's	not	the
self.	It	is	a	kind	of	self,	but	not	the	self.
So,	of	course,	words	cannot	tell	you	great	truths,	relative	truths	either.	But	you	can	find
them	out	in	introspection	and	in	self-criticizing.	Not	condemning	the	self.
Criticizing	and	making	corrections.	Because	there	is	a	danger	your	personality's	egoism
to	present	itself	as	a	masochist.	You	must	be	free	of	that.
Free	of	any	judgment.	And	just	checking	doesn't	mean	judging.	I	came	to	judge	no	one.
I	came	to	save	the	human	being,	said	Joshua.	You	should	never	judge	even	yourself.	But
by	observation,	see,	criticize.
Criticizing	 and	 not	 judging.	 And	 coming	 to	 conclusions.	 So,	 start	 practicing	 the
introspection	and	you	will	find	your	way.
Because	the	time	you	start	the	introspection,	the	guardian	archangel,	which	is	in	you
and	near	you	and	around	you,	I	mean	your	personality,	will	just	advise	you.	But	he	will
never	do	so	unless	you	ask	him	to.	Also	the	holy	archangels.

When	you	mean	knowing	things	and	improving	your	time	and	place	self,	they	are	ready
to	embrace	you,	enlighten	you,	inspire	you	at	the	beginning,	and	then	appear	to	you.
You	will	see	them.	Do	they	have	form?	The	archangels.
The	 Michaels,	 the	 Capulets,	 and	 the	 Raphaels	 are	 pleased	 to	 get	 a	 human	 form	 and
appear	with	a	human	form,	though	they	can	get	any	form.	And	especially	they	like	the
flame.	The	Raphaels,	a	violet	flame.
The	Michaels,	a	red	flame.	The	Capulets,	a	bluish	flame.	And	other	kinds	of	flame.
What	is	the	pleasure	in	the	flame?	When	you	advance,	they	will	teach	you.	So	one	of	the
things	you	will	gain	by	introspection	and	sincere	searching	is	at	first	by	inspiration	to	get
the	help	of	your	guardian	archangel	and	the	holy	archangels	of	the	elements,	then	they
will	appear	to	you,	love	you,	and	teach	you.	And	I'm	telling	you,	you	feel	pleased,	and
then	the	first	thing	they	teach	you	is	what	is	real	love.
So,	God	is	love.	They	are	love.	You	become	love.
You	 are	 love,	 but	 you	 have	 to	 become	 and	 show	 you	 are	 love.	 Yes.	 Now,	 relax
completely.
Breathe	 deeply,	 but	 with	 comfort.	 Breathe	 deeply	 with	 comfort.	 Feel	 the	 air	 and	 the
vitality	entering	in	your	lungs.
See	your	heart	radiating	a	rosy	light	all	around	you.	Your	chest	becomes	a	radiant	sun	of
rosy	light.	Strong	light.
Now,	with	your	mind,	bring	in	front	of	you	a	fellow,	a	man	or	a	woman	with	whom	you
have	certain	differences.	See	that	light	from	your	heart	coloring	his	face	with	the	red
light	emanating	from	your	heart	and	see	that	person	smiling.	Forget	the	differences,	no
matter	what	they	are.
Love	those	who	call	themselves	your	enemies.	We	don't	have	enemies.	We	have	loving
brothers	and	sisters	only.
See	that	person	in	front	of	you	that	there	are	no	differences	amongst	you.	Trust	that
fellow.	Forgive	him.
That's	too	egoistic.	Forget	it.	To	forgive	you,	if	you	feel	you	have	done	something	wrong
to	him,	ask	God	to	forgive	you.
Send	only	love	and	good	wishes.	That	fellow	should	be	blessed	by	God.	See	that	in	your
personality	there	is	not	something	like	hatred,	even	complaint,	because	near	the	roots	of
the	tree	of	hatred	is	coiled	the	serpent	of	complaint.
You	shouldn't	have	any	complaint.	And	forgive	us	our	transgressions	as	we	forgive	those

who	are	transgressing	against	us.	And	lead	us	not	into	temptation.
Lead	us	not	means	do	not	allow	us	to	enter	in	temptation.