

2-	Live	an	Examined	Life	I
Now,	what	we	have	to	do?	The	seekers	of	the	truth,	those	people	in	the	society	who	are
not	satisfied,	only	living	instinctively	and	nothing	more.	What	are	we	to	do?	Find	who	we
are.	We	are	in	both	sides.
As	 present-day	 personality	 today,	 you	 start	 from	 here.	 They're	 developing,	 developing,
developing	what	they	call	consciousness.	It's	another	vast	field	of	study.
Consciousness.	 What's	 consciousness?	 Let's	 talk	 about	 instinctive	 subconsciousness.
Now,	human	beings	are	living	subconsciously.
They	are	not	living	even	consciously.	We	have	to	develop	this	called	self-consciousness
after	 we	 develop	 our	 consciousness.	 But	 are	 we	 not	 conscious	 of	 what?	 No!	 You	 think
you	are	conscious	of	the	world.
You	think	you	are	conscious	of	things.	You	are	living	subconsciously.	We	have	to	develop
using	the	mind,	the	greatest	gift	given	by	God	to	the	human	being.
Ourselves	are	God,	it's	our	nature,	the	mind.	It's	a	different	thing.	But	as	human	beings,
we	are	given	this	mind	by	the	Infinite	Beingness	and	the	Logos.
Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread.	That's	our	daily	bread	we	are	asking.	Because	if	it	is	the
bread	you	find	on	the	table,	you	will	say,	go	to	the	baker's	and	get	bread.
Buy	bread.	You	will	not	ask	God	to	give	you	your	daily	bread.	So	our	daily	bread	is	the
mind,	using	it	as	thought,	as	a	reason.
So,	we	have	to	live	our	life	as	it	is	today.	Because	we	are	living	our	life	as	it	is	today	to
get	the	next	lessons	we	have	to	learn.	Which	the	absolute	intelligence	considers	that	we
have	to	learn.
Nothing	is	happening	unless	there	is	a	purpose	behind	it	and	the	will	of	God.	This	is	what
you	have	in	your	mind.	So,	escaping	from	the	present	day	circumstances	is	not	wise.
We	have	to	get	the	lessons	today.	In	this	society	we	find	ourselves,	we	have	been	placed
so	that	we	will	advance.	So,	what	do	we	have	to	learn?	Study	our	life	as	it	is	today,	as	we
express	it	today.
Study	the	condition	of	our	so-called	present	day	personality.	Study	who	you	are	as	a	man
or	a	woman	having	a	name	and	your	predispositions	in	life.	Now,	I	will	help	you	in	that.
What	 should	 we	 find?	 This	 so-called	 present	 day	 personality	 of	 yours,	 how	 you	 are
affected	 by	 the	 circumstances	 surrounding	 you.	 The	 same	 circumstances	 are	 not
affecting	 all	 people	 in	 the	 same	 way.	 They	 affect	 them	 according	 to	 their	 own
development.

So,	 you	 have	 to	 study	 things	 around	 you.	 These	 things	 are	 giving	 me	 facetious
impressions	 and	 the	 impressions	 are	 creating	 within	 my	 personality	 now	 certain
reactions.	Of	pleasure	or	of	pain.
It	 depends	 upon	 you.	 Which	 are	 the	 reactions?	 Seeing	 things	 within	 your	 personality	 is
creating	 what	 you	 call	 the	 desire,	 the	 wish.	 At	 first	 of	 knowing	 what	 has	 drawn	 your
attention,	later	of	having	it,	possessing	it,	calling	it	yours.
Then	this	is	the	point	to	say,	why?	What	is	that	to	me?	Creating	in	me,	in	my	personality
now,	this	feeling	or	the	wish	or	the	desire	of	getting	or	having	it.	We	start	working	on	our
psychical	body	now	or	our	emotional	body.	This	is	the	duty	of	every	seeker	of	the	truth.
Until	 this	 point	 enough,	 but	 it	 goes	 on.	 It	 has	 been	 created,	 that	 desire,	 that	 wish,
knowing	we	know	it	now.	Having	it,	possessing	it,	getting	it,	anything	around	you.
Then	it	starts	again	a	devilish	behavior.	I	will	have	it	at	all	costs.	Of	course,	reasonable
people	will	say,	can	I	have	it?	Yes,	I	like	it.
Well,	 in	 due	 time,	 when	 I	 get	 enough	 money,	 I	 will	 call	 people	 to	 buy	 it.	 This	 is	 the
reasonable	thinking.	The	other	will	find	cunningly	certain	ways	how	to	have	it	quickly.
Borrowing	 money,	 stealing	 money.	 Then	 he	 has	 to	 face	 the	 consequences.	 The	 other
one,	he	may	even	kill	somebody	to	get	something	he	likes.
You	 have	 to	 study	 these	 conditions	 in	 the	 present	 day	 personality.	 And	 we	 come	 to
another	point.	Studying	all	these	things,	I	am	using	what?	The	mind.
What	is	the	mind	as	thought?	Of	course,	in	the	course	of	studies	we	see	that	even	matter
is	 mind-solid.	 We	 have	 mind	 as	 matter,	 we	 have	 mind	 as	 substance,	 we	 have	 mind	 as
super-substance,	 we	 have	 mind	 in	 purer	 forms.	 Who	 am	 I	 now,	 even	 as	 a	 present
personality,	being	able	to	use	mind,	thinking?	No	animals	around	me	of	any	kind	can	do
it.
So,	we	have	all	the	time	to	exercise	what	we	call	our	divine	nature	of	observation.	It	is
the	divine	nature	of	observation.	Nothing	to	escape	your	attention.
Observation	is	the	main	characteristic	of	the	holy	Archangels.	Nothing	is	escaping	their
attention	 and	 their	 power	 and	 their	 creative	 work.	 Coming	 in	 contact	 with	 the
Archangels,	you	will	learn	many	lessons,	very	precious	lessons.
Now,	starting	us	to	take	care	of	this	truth.	This	desire,	this	wish	has	been	created	in	my
personality.	It's	not	in	me.
Why?	Because	all	the	time	in	the	course	of	the	so-called	life	on	the	material	plane,	many,
many,	many,	many	desires	will	come	to	you.	Some	of	them	will	be	fulfilled.	You	will	just
be	able	to	have	them.

Some,	no.	And	now	you	will	see	what	is	the	result	of	being	fulfilled	or	not	being	fulfilled
the	 desires	 in	 your	 personality.	 So,	 this	 is	 the	 field	 of	 the	 seeker	 of	 the	 truth,	 to	 reach
what	we	say,	knowing	the	time	and	place,	space,	self,	which	is	not	your	real	self.
Your	real	self	is	behind,	but	it	is	also	a	kind	of	self	which	has	to	be	saved.	You	have	to
save	even	that	self,	because	even	your	present	personality	is	divine.	You	must	have	that
in	your	mind.
Nothing	 perishes.	 Nothing	 is	 lost.	 Now,	 I	 say	 something	 to	 prove	 you	 that	 your	 present
personality	is	immortal,	and	it	is	not	the	result	of	your	life	in	the	material	body.
God	 created	 the	 graduates	 that	 will	 be	 waking	 up.	 Maria,	 Eleni,	 George,	 Hans,	 doesn't
matter	who	you	are.	You	have	a	personality	today.
In	any	stage	of	development,	a	wise	man,	a	considerate	man,	somebody	getting	angry
very	easily,	feeling	that	or	that	way,	that's	the	composition	of	your	present	personality.
Who	says	it	is	still	immortal?	And	it	is	not	the	product	of	the	food	or	of	any	material	you
get.	So,	this	material	body,	every	24	hours,	has	to	sleep.
It	 needs.	 Holy	 Archangels	 cast	 you	 away	 so	 that	 they	 will	 make	 repairs	 in	 your	 body.
That	 you,	 as	 Maria,	 Eleni,	 George,	 Hans,	 anybody	 else,	 you	 enter	 in	 a	 state	 of	 non-
beingness	for	certain	hours.
If,	of	course,	you	are	developing	your	self-consciousness	and	consciousness,	you	can	live
consciously	 in	 what	 we	 call	 the	 psychical	 world,	 the	 other	 world,	 or	 have	 a	 very	 nice
dream.	Dreams	do	not	exist.	It	is	experiences	which	exist.
And	 then	 return	 back	 in	 the	 morning,	 wake	 up.	 Who	 wakes	 up?	 Mary,	 Eleni,	 George,
Hans,	 as	 they	 were,	 a	 few	 hours	 before	 entering	 in	 that	 state	 of	 non-existence.	 So,	 it
means	that	you,	you	are	the	real	self.
It	 is	 recomposing	 each	 shadow.	 You	 are	 time	 and	 place	 self.	 And	 this	 is	 happening	 at
least	once	every	24	hours.
Where	 had	 you	 been	 in	 time?	 You	 were,	 let	 us	 say,	 in	 a	 dreamless	 sleep.	 You	 existed.
You	have	entered	in	a	world	of	non-existence.
Who	 recomposed	 your	 present	 day	 self?	 You	 recomposed	 your	 present	 day	 self.	 You.
Who	are	you	now?	You	are	the	real	self.
Behind	 it.	 Because	 we	 are	 gods	 and	 sons	 of	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness.	 Only	 this
event,	if	you	study,	you	will	understand	that.
Even	the	present	day	personality	is	not	going	to	perish.	And	what	about	death?	It	is	just
the	same	as	the	material	body	getting	to	sleep.	Yes.

With	 the	 difference	 now,	 you	 will	 find	 yourself	 as	 Maria,	 Helen,	 George,	 Hans,	 in	 the
psychical	 plane.	 You	 find	 yourself	 every	 night	 in	 the	 psychical	 plane,	 but	 you	 have	 not
developed	this	material	brain	to	carry	the	experiences	you	had	in	that	state,	which	you
have	got	it	out	of	non-existence.	You	existed	as	you	are,	but	you	have	to	breach.
Just	you	are	coming	back	to	the	material	world.	So,	by	practices,	exercises,	you	can	do
that	in	the	course	of	time.	How	long?	Nobody	can	say.
Because	 each	 one	 will	 follow	 his	 or	 her	 own	 development.	 So,	 even	 your	 present	 day
personality	as	it	is,	with	all	its	virtues	or	vices,	is	immortal.	Now	we	say,	you	have	lived
hundreds	and	hundreds,	maybe,	of	incarnations	in	the	past.
Where	are	they?	In	you	as	soul-spirit.	They	are	there.	Well,	someday,	when	all	this	chain
of	personalities	which	are	in	your	present	day	personality	and	your	immortal	self	can	be
brought	to	the	surface.
So,	 when	 one	 reaches,	 what	 you	 call,	 the	 liberation,	 is	 not	 losing	 anything.	 Each
incarnation	 of	 yours	 is	 just	 a	 book	 you	 are	 writing.	 Every	 day	 we	 are	 writing	 to	 the
Cosmic	 Consciousness	 everything	 we	 are	 living,	 we	 are	 doing,	 we	 are	 thinking,
composing	in	each	incarnation	a	book.
You	 have	 your	 library,	 your	 own.	 When	 you	 reach	 that	 liberation,	 you	 are	 allowed	 to
choose	any	book	of	any	time	and	any	place	and	go	through	it.	Read	it	line	by	line	and
page	by	page.
Not,	of	course.	Because	you	are	not	then	a	human	being.	You	are	a	God.
Just	in	an	instant	you	can	know	everything	concerning	a	whole	life.	Because	then	you	are
not	 using,	 what	 you	 call,	 your	 present	 day	 subconsciousness	 or	 even	 your	 present	 day
self-consciousness.	So,	when	I	say	self-consciousness	now,	I	can	call	it	self-consciousness
concerning	my	present	day	personality	or	my	I-ness.
I	don't	know	if	there	is	any	better	word	for	I-ness.	Your	ego.	We	are	far	away	from	just
finding	this	truth.
No.	You	just	analyze	your	present	day	self.	And	just	what	I	taught	you,	entering	in	the	so-
called	 non-existent	 state,	 then	 next	 day	 recomposing	 yourself	 with	 all	 your	 virtues	 and
vices,	you	will	study	your	present	day	personality.
And	by	starting	making	changes	of	your	present	day	personality,	you	become	a	seeker	of
the	truth.	And	believe	me,	it	is	a	great,	great	title	if	you	understand	what	it	means.	It	is	a
great	title.
So,	 becoming	 a	 seeker	 of	 the	 truth,	 you	 have	 just	 to	 change	 whom?	 Your	 present	 day
personality.	 So,	 by	 changing	 your	 present	 day	 personality,	 it	 means	 that	 your	 present

day	personality	is	immortal.	Undergoing	changes	and	not	annihilation.
And	this	is	the	way	how	even	our	present	day	personality	should	be	saved.	Otherwise,	it
is	going	to	perish.	There	is	no	such	thing	as	perishing.
Because	 in	 the	 parable	 of	 the	 most	 beloved	 one,	 Joshua	 Emmanuel	 the	 Christ,	 the
prodigal	son	has	to	return	back	home.	It	doesn't	say	in	the	parable	that	the	prodigal	son
committed	suicide	and	was	lost,	or	that	he	remained	just	keeping	the	swine	and	eating
the	food	the	swine	were	eating.	That	means	cutting	his	own	elementals.
The	 parable	 says	 that	 the	 prodigal	 son	 returned	 back	 home.	 Now,	 with	 much	 more
wisdom.	And	what	did	he	meet?	An	angry	father.
Maybe	the	priest	was	an	angry	father.	But	he	is	never	getting	angry,	our	heavenly	father.
The	prodigal	son	made	one	step	towards	the	father	and	the	father	made	the	other	nine
towards	him.
Embracing	him.	Welcoming	him	back	home.	Giving	him	the	first	dress	of	his	godhood.
Is	that	a	word?	Of	his	divine	state.	Plus	something	the	holy	archangels	do	not	have.	The
ring	on	his	hand.
What	is	this	ring?	He	knows	now	what	is	time	in	eternity.	Which	the	holy	archangels	do
not	know.	When	you	ask	the	archangels,	many	times	I	did	it.
What	 is	 time?	 What	 is	 the	 present	 day?	 What	 is	 the	 present	 time?	 They	 cannot	 reply.
They	say,	now.	They	know	the	eternal	now.
The	everlasting	now.	The	everlasting	present.	But	what	is	past,	present	and	future?	They
don't	know.
That's	the	ring.	Moving.	Because	life	in	the	material	place	is	movement.
Going	around	a	ring.	You	never	find	an	end	to	stop.	As	long	as	you	are	moving.
That's	the	eternity.	But	there	is	a	point	in	moving.	The	holy	archangels	know	the	ring	as
a	whole.
They	 don't	 know	 motion	 on	 the	 ring.	 So	 the	 parable	 of	 the	 prodigal	 son	 is	 very,	 very
enlightening.	 But	 to	 reach	 that	 point,	 the	 father	 must	 sacrifice	 the	 calf	 which	 was	 the
material	body.
Not	the	form.	So	the	form,	the	human	form,	without	characteristics.	The	characteristics
you	have	now,	you	have	them	always	in	all	your	incarnations.
If	a	man	could	see	you	being	in	the	caves	as	a	caveman,	or	now,	he	would	understand
that's	you.	Because	each	one	of	us	has	his	characteristics.	These	are	yours.

In	the	form.	The	form,	human	form,	is	never	lost.	But	dressing	the	form,	the	clothes	can
be	cast	out.
And	redressing	the	form.	But	is	this	form	visible	to	the	material	eyes?	Why	should	it	be?
But	 it	 is	 visible,	 of	 course.	 Tomorrow	 we	 will	 give	 a	 lesson	 on	 what	 is	 this	 form	 in	 the
course	of	the	circle	of	possibilities.
What	 we	 are	 really	 as	 gods.	 Now	 we	 will	 make	 an	 exercise.	 The	 first	 most	 important
thing	is	to	learn	how	to	relax	completely.
Sit	as	comfortably	as	you	can.	And	start	relaxing	every	part	of	your	body.	Starting	from
the	toes.
Completely	 relaxed.	 Feel	 that	 your	 material	 body	 is	 completely	 relaxed.	 Take	 deep
breaths.
But	comfortably.	Feel	your	lungs	full.	Breathing	deeply,	but	comfortably.
Not	with	tension.	Naturally.	Hands,	feet,	belly,	thighs.
Everything	is	relaxed.	Completely	relaxed.	Only	breathe	deeply.
And	put	to	yourself	this	question	now.	All	the	time	I	was	breathing	and	I	didn't	notice	it.
Yet	I	was	breathing.
I	 could	 not	 stop	 breathing.	 Who	 was	 controlling	 this	 breath?	 Life	 giving	 breath	 to	 my
material	body.	I	was	breathing.
That	is	the	instinctive	subconsciousness	of	my	body.	But	now	I	can	control	this	body	of
mine.	It	is	mine.
I	 can	 change	 the	 rhythm	 of	 my	 breathing.	 Who	 am	 I	 able	 to	 interfere	 now?	 In	 this
breathing	way.	Giving	life	to	my	material	body.
Who	am	I?	I	feel	I	am	in	the	whole	material	body.	Feel	you	are	in	all	the	material	body.
But	who	am	I?	Now	center	your	concentration	on	the	left	foot.
From	the	knee	to	the	toes.	You	can	do	it.	Feel	your	left	foot	from	the	knees	to	the	toes.
Only.	The	whole	other	body	is	relaxed	completely.	Don't	feel	it	anymore.
Be	in	it,	but	don't	feel	it.	Feel	now	your	left	foot	from	the	knee	to	the	toes.	You	are	there.
It	 is	 yours.	 You	 can	 feel	 it.	 Now	 feel	 from	 the	 toes	 to	 the	 place	 you	 are	 sitting	 on	 the
chair.
The	whole	foot.	The	leg.	The	thigh.

To	the	place	you	are	sitting	on	the	chair.	The	whole	left	foot.	It	is	yours.
You	can	be	in	it.	Feel	it.	Now	leave	it	and	feel	your	right	foot	now.
From	the	knee	to	the	toes.	Only	from	the	knee	to	the	toes.	Feel	it.
Then	feel	your	foot	from	the	toes	to	the	place	you	are	sitting.	The	whole	foot.	Leg	and
thigh.
Now	feel	both	your	feet.	From	the	place	you	are	sitting	to	the	toes.	Now	we	will	enter	in	a
more	important	place	in	our	body.
Of	 our	 etheric	 double.	 The	 belly.	 From	 the	 sternum	 to	 the	 place	 you	 are	 sitting	 on	 the
chair.
Feel	the	whole	belly.	Intestines	are	not	an	obstacle.	Feel	only	the	belly.
This	is	more	difficult	but	do	it.	Feel	the	whole	belly.	You	are	in	it.
In	 reality	 you	 are	 in	 the	 etheric	 double	 of	 the	 material	 body.	 We	 enter	 in	 a	 more
important	part	of	our	body	now.	From	the	thyroid	to	the	belly.
Breathe	 now	 more	 deeply	 and	 feel	 the	 air	 entering	 in	 your	 lungs.	 This	 is	 a	 more
important	part	of	the	body.	Now	your	attention	is	under	your	arms.
Because	there	are	centers	there.	Don't	feel	the	arms.	Feel	the	lungs	now.
Breathe	 deeply	 feeling	 the	 lungs	 with	 etheric	 vitality.	 In	 this	 part	 of	 your	 body	 are	 the
most	important	parts	of	the	body.	The	heart.
The	lungs.	Certain	glands.	That	is	the	most	important	work	done	by	the	holy	archangels.
In	the	lungs	and	in	the	heart.	And	also	in	the	other	organs.	For	your	body	to	live.
Breathe	more	deeply.	And	say	to	yourself,	who	am	I?	Living	in	this	body.	Having	a	heart
of	mine.
And	lungs.	Which	I	can	feel.	With	any	rhythm	I	like.
Now	feel	the	head.	Feel	doesn't	mean	tension.	Just	feel	the	whole	head.
You	are	in	the	head	and	around	the	head.	Feel	your	eyes.	Your	nose.
Feel	your	tongue	in	your	mouth.	Feel	in	the	skull.	In	the	brains.
No	tension.	Only	feeling	them.	Feel	the	back	of	your	head.
Feel	the	whole	head.	Now	feel	you	are	in	the	whole	body	from	the	toes	to	the	top	of	your

head.	Feel	inside	your	body.
Take	deep	breaths.	And	feel	being	in	the	whole	body.	And	put	this	question.
Who	am	I?	Forget	your	name	and	if	you	are	a	man	or	a	woman.	Who	am	I?	Who	can	do
that?	I	can	do	it.	I	can	express	a	will.
Which	is	my	divine	nature.	Enough.	Do	the	Archangels	working	in	your	body	now.
A	 Michael,	 a	 Gabriel,	 a	 Raphael,	 Uriel	 and	 others.	 Know	 what	 you	 are	 doing.	 Do	 they
follow	you?	Of	course	they	do.
And	they	are	rejoicing	that	you	are	starting	getting	control	of	your	body.	They	will	help
you.	Ask	them.
Your	body	to	have	a	better	health.	And	they	will	give	you	the	answer.	Do	you	really	want
that?	Yes.
Don't	 be	 an	 obstacle	 to	 our	 creative	 work	 in	 your	 body.	 Life	 is	 sacred.	 The	 everlasting
life.
Our	self,	God.	Our	divine	selfhood	is	sacred.	Life	in	a	material	body	is	sacred	also.
We	must	thank	the	Holy	Archangels	of	the	elements.	Building	it	up	for	us.	And	keeping	it
in	good	order.
And	in	our	new	way	of	living.	Soberly.	We	cooperate	with	them.
In	the	health,	not	only	of	our	material	body.	Also	of	the	psychical	body.	And	the	ethical
body.
To	request	them	to	teach	us.	To	use	the	mind	as	reasonable	thought.	Knowing	to	use	the
mind,	we	become	masters	of	the	mind	matter.
Enough.