

2-	Out	of	the	Labyrinth	and	into	the	light	II
Now,	there	is	something	we	should	make	it	clear	so	that	we	will	not	make	a	mistake.	If
one	who	represents	a	personality	that	petty	person,	with	a	name,	male	or	female,	no,
our	real	self	can	do	that,	will	spread	and	raise	itself	to	these	dimensions	of	the	self,	real
self,	now	super-consciousness,	is	reaching	those	heights	in	himself,	in	the	kingdom	of
the	heavens,	which	is	in	us,	in	our	own	nature,	he	enters,	in	what	I	would	say,	the	eternal
present,	eternal	now.	He	frees	himself	from	the	limitations	of	what	we	call	time	as	past,
present	and	future.
Now,	I	define	them	well,	but	it	is	very	difficult	for	you	to	grasp	the	idea.	Unless	you	reach
that	stage	yourself,	because	by	words,	and	even	reading	books	and	all	that,	you	cannot
know	 anything,	 unless	 you	 know	 it	 yourself.	 I	 will	 give	 just	 an	 example	 which	 I	 have
given	many,	many	times.
If	I	try	to	explain	to	you	I	have	got	something	solved.	How	can	I	do	that?	If	I	present	to
you	 volumes	 of	 books	 of	 scientists,	 H2,	 H3,	 mixing	 that	 and	 that	 it	 gives	 something
solved	and	like	that.	Read	as	many	books	as	you	like.
Many	 of	 you	 have	 read	 many	 occult	 books	 of	 the	 East	 until	 now	 and	 you	 found	 out
nothing.	So,	it	is	not	reading	or	hearing	or	being	taught	of	things,	that	you	learn	them.	So
volumes	and	volumes	of	books	cannot	tell	you	what	is	something	solved.
But	if	you	come	to	me	and	I	have	just	a	little	sword	somewhere	here,	I	tell	you,	just	put
your	finger	on	your	tongue,	make	it	wet,	put	it	on	this	sword,	put	it	back	on	your	tongue
and	I	will	tell	you	now	what	is	solved.	You	will	say,	now	I	know	what	is	something	solved.
Why?	Because	you	have	experienced	it.
So	I	am	telling	you,	teachers,	gurus,	masters,	religion,	everything	are	nothing	but	guides
leading	you	somewhere.	You	have	to	know	personally,	otherwise	nobody	can	explain	to
you	more.	And	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	said,	know	the	truth,	you,	you	must	know	the
truth.
Know	the	truth	and	the	truth	will	set	you	free	from	illusions.	Not	the	teaching	of	others.	I
can	say	that	whatever	we	have	is	not	valuable.
Valuable	to	guide	you	somewhere,	but	that	is	not	enough.	You	have	to	realize	what	it	is
in	it.	Reject	it	if	it	is	not	worthy.
Experiencing	it	and	knowing	it	or	accepting	it.	And	by	accepting	it	is	not	enough.	Practice
and	by	practicing	you	will	know.
It	is	by	putting	your	finger	on	the	tongue,	on	the	sword	and	then	back	again	that	you
know	what	is	something	solved.	Nobody	can	explain	to	you	otherwise.	You	are	right,	tell
us	how	is	that.

That	is	a	very,	very	nice	example.	How	can	we	come	to	this	experience	you	are	saying?	I
have	given	it	many,	many	times.	By	certain	exercises	in	meditation.
Always	 be	 careful	 in	 what	 I	 call	 observation.	 Using	 the	 mind	 properly	 in	 the	 proper
meditation.	Reaching	this,	this	is	what	we	call	inspiration.
Ecstasy,	contemplation,	then	you	come	to	the	understanding.	Yourself,	you	know	what	is
everything	as	it	is	and	you	know	who	you	are	now.	Then	you	take	out	of	yourself	that
dirty,	very	dirty	sometimes,	what	you	are	wearing,	considering	it	yourself,	which	I	call
personal	egoism.
You	throw	it	away.	Now	I	am	clean	and	I	know	who	I	am	now.	With	that	caught,	rubbing
yourself,	you	have	the	idea	of	death.
Because	sooner	or	later	you	have	to	cast	it	out.	As	long	as	you	consider	the	caught	as	it
is	yourself,	you	will	be	afraid	of	the	idea	of	death.	But	when	you	take	it	out,	you	know
you	are	immortal.
You	know	that	you	are	God.	Now	I	had	a	certain	question	from	somebody.	Do	I	take	off
that	dirty	caught?	You	say	we	call	it	egoism.
Egoism	is	not	the	personality.	By	the	death	of	the	material	body?	Is	the	caught	of	egoism
the	material	body?	I	say	no	it	isn't.	It	is	something	different.
Because	you	carry	it	with	you	in	the	psychic	plane.	And	that	caught	is	leading	either	to
your	paradise,	to	your	shell	paradise,	or	to	your	shell	hell.	So	you	don't	cast	the	egoism
so	easily.
Even	by	casting	away	from	the	self	the	material	body.	Do	I	cast	this	personality,	egoism,
the	illusion	about	the	self,	in	the	psychical	plane?	Yes,	you	will.	The	heavy	caught	you
can	cast	away,	but	you	have	another	one	under	it.
Again	belonging	to	the	egoism.	You	have	to	take	that	out	also.	Which	is	what	I	call	the
body	of	emotions.
So	 you	 are	 not	 free	 even	 in	 what	 I	 call	 the	 psychical	 plane.	 Because	 in	 the	 psychical
plane	you	have	the	shell	paradises	and	the	shell	hells.	You	are	in	it,	in	them.
Shell,	because	they	resemble	a	shell,	wearing	a	coat,	an	overcoat,	then	a	coat.	Well,	we
take	that	out	also.	There	is	a	shirt	now,	which	may	not	be	white.
It	might	be	white,	clean,	but	it	may	not	be	white.	Shirt,	which	is	the	nautical	body.	You
have	to	take	that	out	also	to	feel	naked	and	God.
So,	don't	think	that	by	what	we	call	death	of	the	material	body.	You	are	free.	You	are	not.

Because	 there	 is	 the	 psychical	 world	 and	 in	 between	 the	 psychical	 world	 and	 the
material	world	is	the	ethereal	world.	We	don't	stay	there.	We	just	pass	from	there.
But	we	stay	in	the	psychical	world.	And	you	have	just	to	be	under	the	same	troubles	as
you	are	on	the	material	plane.	Then,	there,	but	now	we	are	there	also.
We	are	living	at	the	same	time.	We	are	living	in	our	material	body.	More	we	are	living	in
our	psychical	world,	in	our	psychical	shell,	in	our	psychical	body.
It	is	not	a	matter	now	of	changing	place	in	space,	but	it	is	changing	dimensions.	We	are
going	 from	 the	 third	 dimensional	 place,	 space,	 to	 what	 I	 call	 the	 fourth	 dimensional
sense	 of	 place,	 not	 space,	 in	 which,	 of	 course,	 plastic	 thing	 there.	 You	 find	 out	 that
space,	the	idea	of	space,	is	gone	away.
Yet	it	is	giving	the	sense	of	a	place,	good	or	bad,	hell	or	paradise.	But	I	said	in	a	lesson
that	nobody	would	find	himself	after	casting	away	his	material	body	to	any	hell	or	any
paradise.	He	is	not	already	now.
When	we	pass	over	to	the	other	side,	don't	think	that	there	are	certain	archangels	and
angels	accusing	us	and	devils	catching	us	to	classify	us	in	this	kind	of	hell	or	in	this	just
pleasure-giving	paradise.	No!	The	archangels	of	the	elements	are	loving	us,	are	working
for	us	to	provide	us	with	our	material	body.	We	are	our	psychical	body	and	we	are	our
ethical	body.
They	are	working.	They	are	helping	us.	They	are	loving	us.
They	are	not	accusing	us.	Who	is	accusing	us?	Our	own	self	is	accusing	us.	This	is	the
real	truth.
So,	 one	 finds	 himself	 or	 herself	 just	 where	 he	 or	 she	 is	 already,	 only	 casting	 out	 the
material	body.	So,	it	is	not	a	place.	We	can	just	define	the	so-called	psychical	world	of
our	planet.
Of	course	it	is.	The	whole	planet	and	many,	many,	many	thousands	of	kilometers	around
it.	But	it	doesn't	touch	any	other	psychical	world	of	another	heavenly	body	of	our	solar
system.
The	psychical	world.	And	where	is	the	nautical	world?	In	us.	We	are	in	it	now.
We	are	using	the	super-substance	of	the	mind.	We	are	living	now	at	the	same	time	in	the
nautical	 world.	 But	 studying	 it,	 we	 call	 it	 psycho-nautical	 because	 there	 cannot	 be
emotions	and	desires	unless	there	is	mind	in	it.
That's	why	in	certain	books	you	will	find	psycho-nautical,	not	only	psychical.	And	if	we
separate	it,	it	is	just	to	study	them	separately.	So,	our	hell	or	our	paradise,	our	self-hell
or	self-paradise	is	composed	of	nautical	mind-substance	and	psychical	substance.

Now,	in	us.	And	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ	said,	The	kingdom	of	the	heavens	is	in	you.	He
didn't	locate	any	place	in	space.
In	you.	Now	it's	the	most	difficult	problem.	In	us.
Where	is	that	in	us?	We	know	ourselves	just	as	a	limited	mass	of	matter.	We	call	it	the
material	body.	What	do	we	know	of	our	psychical	body?	I	wish	I	could	explain	to	you
more,	but	you	will	not	understand	because	there	are	not	words	to	explain.
And	what	is	the	nautical	body?	Again,	I	come	to	the	example.	You	have	to	put	your	finger
on	your	tongue	and	taste	it	and	know	what	it	is.	You	live,	you	learn	to	live,	what	I	call,
self-consciously.
In	the	psychical	world,	with	the	psychical	body,	you	will	never	be	able	to	know	what	is
the	psychical	body.	You	can	know	much	about	the	material	body,	just	getting	a	book	of
anatomy,	you	can	know	much	about	it.	But	all	this	is	to	know	much	about	the	psychical
body	of	yours,	before	you	live	in	it,	you	shape	it,	you	make	it	just	an	independent	from
the	material	body	vehicle	for	expressing	yourself.
And	 this	 is	 the	 work	 of	 a	 seeker	 of	 the	 truth.	 The	 same	 thing	 will	 happen	 with	 your
nautical	 body.	 What	 I	 can	 already	 tell	 you	 is	 that	 both	 the	 nautical	 body	 and	 the
psychical	body	have	a	form,	because	nothing	can	exist	without	having	a	form.
A	form.	But	what	is	a	form	now?	A	form	is	a	phenomenon	in	the	material	world.	But	what
is	that	form	of	myself	in	the	psychical	world?	What	kind	of	space	it	occupies?	It's	very
hard	to	think	of	it.
What	is	it?	As	you	are	using	the	material	body	subconsciously	without	knowing	it,	you
are	using	already,	subconsciously,	your	psychical	body.	If	a	fellow	passes	away,	I	had
many	times	this	experience,	just	experiences,	passes	over.	I	had	this.
And	 three	 sons,	 the	 one	 is	 in	 Australia,	 the	 other	 is	 in	 England,	 and	 the	 other	 is	 in
America,	and	they	just	want	to	communicate	with	their	father	who	has	passed	over.	Of
course,	they	just	calculate	the	time	to	coincide	at	the	same	time.	They	go	to	experts	who
call	them	mediums,	and	the	father	is	talking	with	the	three	of	them	at	the	same	time.
Where	 was	 he	 at	 that	 moment?	 In	 Australia?	 In	 England?	 In	 America?	 I	 had	 this
experience.	He	was	speaking	and	talking,	revealing	secrets	which	they	didn't	know	to
them,	to	the	three	of	them,	about	the	existence	of	some	world	he	has	hidden,	to	go	and
get	it.	They	got	it.
They	came	and	they	found	it	in	Cyprus.	We	communicated	with	him,	asking	him,	Did	you
see	your	sons?	Yes,	of	course,	they	came	to	me.	Came	to	me.
Where?	They	came	to	him.	Where	were	you?	In	his	cell	room,	in	the	psychical	plane.	He

thinks	they	came	to	him.
Well,	of	course,	they	revealed	this	to	some	of	the	priests	that	told	them	it	was	the	devil.
It	was	not	your	father	who	spoke	to	you.	But	our	father	had	revealed	to	us	that	he	had	a
bag	of	gold	and	we	went	and	found	it.
Yes,	the	devil	can	do	that.	They	have	asked	me,	was	it	our	father?	I	said,	definitely	it	was
your	father.	But	where	did	he	find	us?	I	said,	it's	difficult	to	explain	to	you	what	it	means
place	in	the	psychical	plane,	and	what	it	means	place	in	the	material	plane.
You	will	never	understand	unless	you	know	what	is	the	difference	between	the	three-
dimensional	 world	 and	 the	 four-dimensional	 world.	 It	 doesn't	 only	 need	 the	 mind	 and
meditation,	 but	 observation,	 much	 observation.	 Never	 jump	 from	 conclusions	 to
conclusions,	ideas	from	ideas,	unless	you	are	sure,	because	as	there	are	physical	laws	on
the	material	plane,	there	are	psychical	laws	in	the	psychical	plane	and	ethical	laws	in	the
ethical	plane.
And	all	the	realms	of	existence,	because	these	are	worlds	of	existence,	are	well	ruled	by
this	 absolute,	 infinite,	 super-intentional	 intelligence	 we	 call	 the	 locus,	 God.	 These	 two
expressions,	as	we	can	understand,	as	El	Shaddai,	locus,	O	Shekinah,	that	means	Holy
Spirit.	I	am	using	the	words,	Jesus	Christ,	Joshua	was	using,	addressing	the	Jews.
This	is	Aramaic.	So,	you	find	everywhere	order,	in	all	the	worlds.	A	real	seeker	of	the
truth,	seeing	all	that,	approaches	these	things	with	much	reverence,	because	he	knows,
if	you	ask	him,	who	is	God,	what	is	God,	he	will	say,	I	know	what	is	God,	in	me,	in	you,
and	everywhere.
Unfortunately,	 the	 first	 Christians,	 of	 course	 the	 Apostles,	 writing	 the	 Gospels,	 in	 the
Greek	language,	all	of	them,	only	a	few	parts	of	the	Gospels	according	to	Matthew	is
written	 in	 Aramaic,	 have	 taken	 out	 many	 great	 truths.	 But	 you	 can	 find	 them	 in	 the
Cosmic	Consciousness.	You	can	contact	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	now,	because	he	is
here,	everywhere,	in	us.
It	 is	 just	 only	 raising	 our	 petty	 little	 self-consciousness	 now	 to	 our	 real	 self-
superconsciousness.	You	can	see	it.	When	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	was	preaching,
stretching	out	his	hands,	saying	to	all	of	them,	feeling	himself	as	the	El	Shaddai,	the
Logos	says,	my	most	beloved	ones,	offsprings	of	mine.
Now	they	leave	something	and	they	have	taken	out	something	else.	And	he	says,	I	am
the	Lord.	You	are	God	in	you.
You	are	being.	You	are	being	self.	You	will	love	me,	the	Lord,	in	you	as	you	are	being,
and	love	me	as	the	being	of	every	other	human	being	around	you.
That	is	why	Jesus	said,	we	are	all.	He	was	guiding	us	to	the	common	Logos	selfhood.

Taking	us	out	from	the	just	bad	smelling	mud	of	this	so-called	self-consciousness	in	the
world	of	separateness.
We	enter	in	a	different	now	condition	of	life.	Now,	we	will	not	make	the	mistake	that
many	Buddhists	are	making	this	mistake.	It	is	growing.
Our	present	day	personality	will	have	so	much.	Losing	it.	Not	it.
It	is	influences	we	are	losing.	The	time	and	place,	impressions	we	are	losing.	Not	the
real,	even	petty	self	receiving	the	impressions.
We	are	not	losing	it.	But	finding	the	Kingdom	of	the	Heaven	which	is	in	us,	everything
will	be	granted	to	us.	We	are	not	going	to	lose	even	our	present	day	personality	as	Mary,
Helen,	George,	and	Alex.
Because	when	you	reach	that	absolute	selfhood	in	those	things,	you	know	what	you	are
as	God.	You	know	what	you	are	in	those	printed	realms.	But	if	somebody	will	ask	you,
who	 are	 you?	 You	 will	 say,	 I	 will	 not	 explain	 to	 you	 who	 I	 am	 because	 you	 will	 not
understand.
But	I	will	tell	you,	I	am	that	fellow	because	that	you	will	understand.	Because	that	you
know.	I	am	not	losing	even	my	personality.
And	a	proof	of	it,	when	you	reach	that	stage,	you	remember	all	your	past	incarnations.
Names,	thoughts,	way	of	living.	Which	means	you	are	not	losing	anything.
You	are	gaining	everything.	So	reaching	those,	I	will	call	it	stages,	degrees	of	splendor,
you	know	everything.	Because	God	knows	everything.
And	 you	 are	 God.	 I	 don't	 say	 you	 are	 becoming	 God.	 You	 are	 not	 going	 to	 become
something	you	are	not.
Now	you	realise	what	you	are.	I	wish	I	would	be	allowed	to	speak	more	on	these	things,
but	Jokernan	is	not	a	good	thing	to	say	more.	Not	that	he	is	keeping	secret	things.
You	will	not	understand	and	you	will	be	more	confused.	So	I	am	asking	now	again,	what
is	life?	What	I	do	is	just	show	the	way.	Show	the	way	which	means	you	will	have	that	will,
I	don't	call	it	desire,	to	go	that	way.
He	said,	I	am	the	way.	I	am	the	life	and	truth.	So,	he	had	shown	the	way.
One	can	show	you	the	way.	Don't	expect	that	one	will	get	you	on	his	shoulders	and	carry
you.	Because	this	is	what	most	of	the	people	want	to	from	someone	guiding	them	to	do.
They	tell	you,	masters,	gurus,	call	them	what	you	like.	Avatars,	call	them	what	you	like.
Can	be	only	guides.

Even	books.	Guides.	You	have	to	cover	this	way	and	go.
And	this	way	is.	I	put	it	now	in	the	right	way.	Instead	of	using	the	mind	in	the	wrong	way,
now	enslaving	it	in	the	desires	and	in	the	emotions,	making	that	slave	of	your	time	and
place,	 stupid	 egoism,	 personal	 egoism,	 free	 it,	 and	 you	 now,	 not	 influenced	 by	 your
material	personal	egoism,	start	using	it	in	the	proper	way.
Use	 it	 as	 a	 mirror,	 first	 of	 all,	 to	 see	 you	 are	 yourself	 reflected	 in	 it.	 Everything
concerning	the	self,	who	you	are,	what	you	are.	What	you	do	is	just	do	it	using	your	own
nature,	the	willpower,	and	observation.
Now,	using	the	mind	as	the	proper	meditation	in	introspection	again,	all	the	time	you
have	to	see	everything	according	to	a	sort	of	observation.	Nothing	must	escape	from
you.	And	then	you	will	find	the	way.
When	you	find	the	way,	yes.	There	you	can	find	what	the	writers	call	happiness.	There	is
no	such	thing	 as	happiness	 in	the	 material	world,	or	 in	the	 psychical	world,	 or	in	 the
nautical	world.
Yes,	in	these	worlds	you	will	find	hells	and	paradises	of	our	own	creation.	We	have	to
play.	The	Mount	Super	Substance	is	the	greatest	gift	given	to	the	human	beings	by	the
Father.
Now	 we	 must	 know	 how	 to	 make	 good	 use	 of	 it.	 Maybe	 studying	 the	 parable	 of	 the
prodigal	son,	that	will	mean	something	to	you.	Now	we	will	make	an	exercise.
We	 are	 using	 all	 the	 time	 the	 mind	 subconsciously.	 Now	 we	 will	 use	 the	 mind
consciously.	Not	yet	self-consciously.
Consciously.	By	using	what	I	call	visualization.	It	is	not	a	difficult	thing	to	do.
It	 is	 inside	 the	 present	 personality.	 You	 can	 bring	 in	 your	 mind,	 that	 means	 by
visualization	seeing,	a	person	you	love	very	much	or	a	person	you	don't	like	much	and
you	have	differences	with	that	person.	So	subconsciously	now	you	can	use	what	I	call
visualization.
Now,	relax	completely	the	material	body.	Relax	completely	your	emotional	body.	Which
means	all	differences	you	have	with	certain	persons,	silence	them	down.
If	you	bring	certain	persons	by	visualization	before	your	mind,	in	your	mind,	then	your
psychical	body	will	start	its	violent	vibrations	and	then	things	which	are	in	you	will	get	up
in	the	surface,	that	hatred,	anger	and	many	many	things	and	you	say	to	yourself,	don't
mention	 me	 that	 fellow,	 it	 makes	 me	 angry.	 That's	 what	 I	 mean.	 Silence	 down	 the
emotional	body	and	bring	fellows	with	whom	you	have	differences	in	front	of	you.
Be	calm,	quiet.	See	that	fellow,	calm	that	fellow	down	because	that	fellow	now	in	your

imagination	is	attached	to	that	fellow.	See	from	your	heart	light,	golden	light	and	rosy
light,	lighting	everything	around	you	and	see	that	light	lighting	the	face	of	that	fellow,
one	or	more	it	doesn't	matter	how	many	you	bring	and	see	that	fellow	under	that	light	of
your	heart,	which	is	not	your	light,	it	is	of	the	light	of	the	world.
I	am	the	light	of	the	world,	which	is	love.	See	that	face	happy,	smiling	to	you	and	then
express	yourself	in	words	mentally,	I	love	you,	because	you	are	a	goddess	I	am	one.
Never	mind	that	we	both	have	mistakes	and	we	are	under	delusions	of	time	and	space.
I	love	you.	Never	mind,	I	said	that	we	have	differences,	we	are	not	going	again	to	mix	up
ourselves	with	those	differences.	You	are	simply	now	in	higher	realms	expressing	you,
my	divine	nature	to	your	divine	nature.
I	tell	you	I	love	you.	Do	that	every	day.	For	certain	people	you	have	certain	differences
whether	 you	 are	 right	 or	 you	 are	 not	 right,	 they	 are	 right	 or	 they	 are	 not	 right	 that
doesn't	matter.
Differences	do	exist	and	you	can	put	down	the	fire	by	water	love	and	not	by	fire,	which	is
hating.	That	doesn't	mean	you	undertake	the	obligation	of	approach	again	and	having
your	time	and	place	personalities	fight	again	No	need.	You	are	a	self	now	you	don't	need
any	meeting	with	those	fellows	on	the	material	plane	Now,	if	you	think	you	could	cope
with	this	case	again	and	the	differences	will	go	away	by	doing	that	you	may	influence
that	fellow	and	approach	you	That's	a	different	matter	if	you	want	just	to	settle	up	your
debts	between	you.
But	many	people	are	not	yet	ready	but	send	love,	the	love	of	God	in	you	to	your	brother
in	 you,	 because	 having	 him	 in	 your	 mind	 by	 visualization,	 is	 in	 you	 Hating	 him,	 the
hatred	is	in	you	and	hating	is	a	very	very	bad	poison	which	is	killing	even	your	material
bodies	 That's	 why	 Joshua	 Banner	 of	 the	 Christ	 said,	 love	 your	 enemies	 They	 may
consider	themselves	your	enemies,	but	you	will	not	have	enemies	You	have	only	loving
brothers	and	sisters	under	the	influence	of	illusions	in	the	three	dimensional	world	we
are	living	in.	Our	next	lesson	will	be	on	next	Monday	for	those	who	will	be	here	in	Cyprus