

2-	Shadows	of	the	Light
Now	 I	 get	 from	 the	 mind	 of	 some	 of	 you	 this	 question	 and	 I	 will	 answer	 it.	 Because	 it
happens	 that	 you	 have	 some	 enemies,	 who	 may	 be,	 who	 are	 hating	 you	 very	 much,
fighting	you	very	much,	and	you	are	just	in	clash	with	them.	This	happens,	of	course.
The	question	is,	in	your	minds,	are	there	not	human	beings	living	in	a	human	body,	any
of	 the	 fallen	 ones?	 I	 say,	 no!	 They	 are	 not	 allowed.	 A	 human	 being	 is	 God.	 The	 fallen
ones	can	from	time	to	time	influence	the	personality	of	a	man.
The	personality	of	a	man	is	created,	and	that	is	the	work	of	the	archangels,	not	of	the
evil	ones.	The	evil	ones,	what	they	can	do	is	only	to	influence	the	little	personality	of	a
man	 in	 going	 their	 way	 for	 some	 time.	 No	 human	 being	 living	 in	 a	 human	 body	 is	 a
demon.
That's	true.	But	even	demons,	secondary	I	would	say	demons,	can	get	possession	even
of	the	material	body.	What	is	the	secondary	demons?	Once	they	are	influencing	a	human
being,	a	human	being	living	his	own	life	and	using	the	mind	creates	elementals.
And	 all	 those	 elementals	 have	 power	 on	 the	 material	 body	 of	 those	 who	 have	 created
them.	So,	all	the	demons,	we	call	them	demons,	not	the	fallen	ones,	not	the	evil	ones,
which	 have	 possessed	 human	 bodies	 at	 the	 time	 of	 Christ,	 and	 casting	 them	 out	 were
elementals	of	those	very	persons.	And,	of	course,	giving	lessons	on	the	elementals,	how
they	are	created,	how	they	behave,	even	Joshua	the	Christ	had	described	them.
He	 said	 the	 evil	 spirits,	 calling	 them	 evil	 spirits,	 without	 any	 creative	 contents	 in	 it,	 it
comes	out	from	the	man	as	a	desire,	as	a	desire	for	form.	Because	he	says	in	waterless
places,	of	course,	he	is	speaking	in	parables,	and	returns	back	to	its	home,	carrying	with
it,	it	says,	seven,	because	he	has	to	pass	through	the	seven	shadows	of	the	evil	ones.
They	are	right	to	do	it.
Bring	the	other	seven	spirits	in	that	fellow.	Read	it	in	the	New	Testament,	in	the	Bible,
the	behavior	of	those	called	elementals	or	evil	spirits.	So,	those,	only	those	created	by
the	personality	of	a	man	can	come	and	dominate	only	on	the	personality	of	a	man.
Because	 casting	 them	 away,	 the	 fellow	 was	 alright.	 So,	 that	 fellow	 was	 demon
possessed,	was	responsible	for	those	demon	elementals	which	got	hold	of	his	body	and
his	 personality.	 But	 when	 we	 free	 ourselves	 from	 them,	 we	 are	 ourselves	 and	 not	 the
demons.
So,	we	give	a	lesson,	many	times	we	have	given	it	on	elementals.	So,	you	say,	but	what
is	the	difference	between	a	demon	fallen	one	and	a	demon	elemental?	Of	course,	there
is	a	great	difference.	Because	the	fallen	ones	are	immortal.
Sooner	or	later,	they	have	to	return	back	home.	And	Saint	Paul	is	describing	it	in	one	of

his	letters,	in	the	restoration	of	everything.	He	has	to,	because	they	are	sons	of	God.
Now,	influenced	by	their	own	pride,	which	created	this	darkness	around	them.	And	there
is	 not	 any	 enmity	 between	 the	 beingness	 and	 this	 kind	 of	 demons.	 There	 is	 not	 any
hostility.
There	is	not	any	fight.	It	is	wrong	to	believe	that	the	infinite	absolute	beingness	as	the
Logos	is	fighting	the	demons.	No.
Because	fighting	them,	it	means	that	it	is	in	love.	Let	me	put	you	some	other	thing.	Do
demons	love	God?	Yes,	they	do.
But	they	are	influenced	by	their	own	self-centering	feeling	of	being	at	least	equal	to	God.
And	 this	 is	 creating	 in	 them	 what	 we	 call	 the	 fall.	 And	 what	 is	 the	 fall?	 They	 deprive
themselves,	not	God,	from	the	power	of	creating,	which	a	human	being	and	animals	do
have.
So,	 the	 reply	 is,	 no	 human	 being	 is	 a	 fallen	 one	 or	 a	 demon.	 A	 human	 being	 can	 be
influenced	 by	 his	 own	 creation,	 the	 elementals,	 according	 to	 the	 life	 he	 was	 living.
Another	one.
Behavior	of	a	human	being	in	a	previous	incarnation	is	not	bringing	in	a	new	incarnation
those	elementals	active	because	that	would	not	give	him	or	her	the	chance	to	progress.
But	in	the	new	person	incarnated,	it	is	the	tendency,	but	the	power	to	resist	it.	It	is	what
we	said	before.
And	the	mind	is	given	to	the	human	beings	to	use	it.	And	using	the	mind,	not	only	one
can	 resist,	 but	 also	 can	 get	 out	 of	 all	 this	 wild	 circle.	 So	 again,	 what	 is	 the	 duty	 of	 a
seeker	of	the	truth?	A	man	or	a	woman?	Using	the	mind,	it	is	his	or	her	right.
The	mind	is	giving	plentiful	to	him.	To	try	using	the	mind	to	study	by	observation,	which
is	its	nature.	Meditation,	that	means	using	the	reason.
Observation,	concentration.	They	are	not	difficult	things.	It	needs	only	practice	and	the
will	to	do	that.
To	 see	 the	 light	 or	 the	 truth.	 In	 what?	 In	 his	 or	 her	 own	 behavior.	 And	 then	 create	 an
elemental.
I	 call	 it	 a	 burning	 why.	 Burning	 why	 have	 I	 done	 that?	 Why	 is	 that?	 Is	 it	 correct	 to	 be
that?	 Is	 that	 wrong?	 In	 everyone,	 man	 or	 a	 man,	 there	 is	 the	 balance	 of	 the	 sense	 of
good	or	evil.	It	is	our	nature.
Just	to	give	that	to	the	present	day	personality	of	ourselves.	So,	there	is	no	excuse.	Only
just	decide	to	meditate,	to	observe	and	come	to	conclusions.

Of	course,	definitely,	I	said,	there	is	a	mantle	around	us.	A	veil	around	us.	A	shadow.
Not	of	complete	darkness.	That	is	our	personality's	egoism.	Because	the	egoism	is	just
the	creation	of	the	Lord	of	the	world	of	separateness.
So,	 by	 right	 thinking,	 on	 our	 behavior,	 on	 our	 way	 of	 thinking,	 feeling,	 and	 acting,	 and
studying	the	nature	of	the	other	human	beings	around	us.	Studying	our	relations	with	all
those	 human	 beings	 around	 us,	 whether	 they	 are	 members	 of	 our	 family	 or	 not.	 If	 we
love	a	father,	a	mother,	a	son,	a	daughter,	or	anything	more	than	the	truth,	we	are	not
worthy	of	the	truth,	said	Christ.
And	 he	 had	 been	 misunderstood	 by	 what	 he	 said.	 Because	 all	 the	 time,	 you	 may	 love
your	father	and	your	mother,	and	your	children,	and	fight	with	them.	Both	of	you	will	be
in	that	vile	circle	of	quarreling.
What's	the	use?	When	one	is	giving	up	a	father,	a	mother,	or	a	son,	or	a	daughter,	all
give	 him,	 he	 said,	 thousands	 of	 fathers,	 mothers,	 and	 so	 on.	 Which	 means,	 when	 you
understand	 that	 you	 are	 father,	 you	 are	 mother,	 you	 are	 father,	 you	 are	 son,	 you	 are
daughter,	 it's	 a	 spirit,	 soul,	 ego,	 and	 not	 flesh.	 And	 weaknesses,	 like	 yours,	 in	 fighting,
and	insisting	that	you	love	them	and	they	love	you.
Quarreling	and	reconciling.	Can	you	feel	that?	All	around	you.	In	nature,	you	are	father,
and	you	are	mother,	and	you	are	son,	and	you	are	daughter.
This	is	what	he	meant.	And	the	way	they	presented	it,	it's	greatly	misunderstood.	So,	by
reasoning,	 usually	 by	 introspection,	 we'll	 find	 that	 we	 are	 getting	 out	 of	 the	 world	 of
separateness.
Because	 in	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the	 heavens,	 the	 personal	 egoism	 cannot	 enter.	 And	 that's
why	 that	 personal	 egoism,	 the	 sum	 total	 of	 the	 elementals	 we	 have	 created,	 and	 they
are	in	our	personality,	does	not	like	us	to	enter	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens,	which	is
in	us,	in	our	own	nature,	spirit,	soul,	ego.	Even	the	personal	egoism	of	a	man	is	depriving
that	man	to	think	that	he	is	an	immortal	soul.
So,	 the	 duty,	 first	 of	 all,	 is	 to	 get	 rid	 of	 the	 veil	 of	 shadow	 or	 darkness,	 which	 is	 your
personal	 egoism.	 And	 when	 you	 do	 that,	 then	 you	 see	 clearly	 the	 spirit,	 soul,	 egos	 of
your	own	people,	and	of	everyone	around	you.	Because	now,	we	cannot	see	clearly.
Now,	 if	 somebody	 would	 come	 and	 tell	 you,	 you	 are	 quarreling	 with	 your	 mother,	 with
your	son,	with	your	daughter,	what	do	you	know	of	them?	That's	how	they	appear.	The
surface	only,	a	name,	and	a	way	of	behaving.	What	do	you	know	of	your	own	people?	Do
you	know	anything	more,	now?	And	then	you	call	them,	my	son,	my	mother,	my	father,
and	when	they	are	out	of	the	material	body,	the	body	of	the	continual	change,	you	think
you	are	losing	them.

You	never	thought	that	they	are	a	human	form,	and	in	it,	a	God	just	like	you.	All	people,
when	relations	are	passing	out	in	the	other	side	of	the	world,	they	have	the	feeling	that
they	are	losing	them.	This	is	not	true.
If	you	know	who	you	are,	and	you	develop	your	self-consciousness	to	higher	levels,	first
of	all,	you	understand	that	there	is	no	such	a	thing	as	death.	Because	you	will	be	able,
self-consciously,	 to	 come	 out	 of	 the	 body	 and	 back	 again,	 and	 then	 you	 say,	 oh,	 what
they	 call	 death	 is	 not	 to	 come	 back	 in	 this	 body	 of	 mine,	 I	 don't	 need	 it	 anymore.
Because	the	body	is	getting	old.
So,	then	you	understand	that	you	are	never	losing	your	beloved	ones.	Those	who	pass
away,	 do	 they	 think	 that	 they	 are	 losing	 the	 living	 ones?	 No!	 Because	 the	 living	 ones
cannot	communicate	with	the	ones	who	pass	in	the	other	side.	Other	side	where?	Here!
It's	the	difference	in	the	vibrations	of	that	world,	because	that	world	is	the	world	of	the
four	dimensions.
This	is	the	world	of	the	three	dimensions,	occupying	the	same	place-space.	So,	when	you
reach	to	this	truth,	then	you	see	your	own	beloved	ones	as	they	really	are,	not	as	you
think	they	are.	Because	you	see	yourself	as	you	really	are	now,	not	as	you	think	you	are.
When	one	would	ask	you,	what	are	you?	You	all	the	time	complain	that	you	are	a	weak
person,	 not	 having	 the	 willpower,	 and	 all	 that.	 In	 every	 thousand	 people,	 999	 are
complaining,	because	they	don't	know	the	truth.	They	all	find	something	to	complain.
Because	 they	 don't	 know	 who	 they	 are.	 It's	 because	 they	 don't	 know	 what	 they	 are.
Complaining	 for	 what?	 For	 the	 behavior	 of	 all	 around	 them,	 because	 they	 cannot
understand	them.
And	 of	 their	 own	 people,	 because	 they	 don't	 know	 what	 their	 own	 people	 themselves
are,	and	what	is	the	world	of	separateness.	So,	we	are	living	now	in	the	material	world,
in	a	world	of	illusions.	We	have	shown	that	many,	many	times.
What	 you	 conceive,	 what	 you	 see	 around	 you,	 is	 not	 what	 it	 is	 really,	 but	 in	 what	 way
you	understand	it.	And	starting	by	observation,	our	real	divine	nature,	you	find	out	that
things	are	not	as	they	appear	to	be.	So,	by	observation	and	using	the	mind,	attention	I
might	call	it,	you	reach	the	truth.
You	understand	that	life	is	divine.	You	are	life.	You	are	not	only	living	as	a	phenomenal
life,	as	the	animal	life	around	you,	or	the	vegetable	life.
You	 are	 life,	 because	 you	 can	 express	 a	 self-consciousness.	 But	 then	 if	 I	 ask	 you	 now,
self-consciousness,	are	you	sure	you	are	self-conscious?	They	tell	you,	no.	Because	what
you	consider	and	say,	self,	is	a	time	and	place,	expression	of	a	self,	wrapped	heavily	or
more,	like	with	the	shadows	of	the	fallen	ones.

Desires,	unbridled	desires,	emotions,	the	reactions	from	your	behavior,	which	is	hatred,
malice,	feeling	of	aggression	and	all	that.	Now,	the	seeker	of	the	truth	has	to	study	all
these	things,	in	himself,	himself,	or	around	him.	And	using	the	reason,	and	the	mind	will
find	a	way.
The	 way	 leading	 where?	 To	 what	 I	 call	 real	 self,	 the	 self-realization.	 Find	 that	 you,	 not
find	 you	 are	 self,	 you	 find	 that	 you	 are	 that	 self,	 divine,	 the	 everlasting	 life,	 living
according	to	the	will	of	the	law,	and	the	infinite,	beingness,	the	locus,	the	various	worlds,
even	 of	 existence,	 as	 long	 as	 you	 want	 to	 live	 in	 the	 world	 of	 existence,	 billions	 and
billions	 and	 billions	 of	 centuries.	 Christ	 said	 that	 he	 who	 eats	 his	 flesh	 and	 drinks	 his
blood,	which	means	becoming	a	human	being	with	flesh	and	blood,	from	the	locus,	will
have	everlasting	life	as	a	human	being.
There	is	not	any	end	or	any	prohibition	in	being	reincarnated.	At	the	beginning	you	will
be	reincarnated	to	pay	your	debts.	The	Hindus	call	it	the	law	of	karma.
Christ	says,	whatever	you	shall	sow,	so	you	shall	reap.	But	that	is	not	all.	You	can	come
and	get	rewards.
But	now,	will,	spirit,	soul,	egos,	would	like	to	live	always	as	human	beings?	It	depends.
Because	when	you	find	what	you	are	as	the	self-ego,	when	you	find	out	that	yourself	is
God,	 when	 you	 find	 that	 that	 self	 can	 be	 omnipresent	 and	 not	 confined	 in	 a	 dungeon,
foremost	 in	 a	 palace	 for	 many,	 I	 mean	 the	 material	 body	 and	 the	 personality,	 you	 see
that	there	are	other	ways	of	life	that	maybe	you	would	like	to	live	that.	But	again,	I	am
saying,	the	fallen	ones	will	come	as	desires.
You	have	to	govern	them	again.	To	make	it	clear,	when	you	reach	to	higher	levels	of	self-
consciousness,	 you	 have	 to	 find	 that	 in	 you	 is	 the	 power	 of	 attunement,	 the	 letter	 of
attunement,	 which	 is	 something	 the	 fallen	 ones	 will	 never	 have.	 And	 even	 the
archangels	will	not	exercise	even	if	they	wish	to	have	it.
Which	means	you	can	feel	being	anything	you	like	around	you.	Or	feel	that	you	are.	You
are	becoming	anything	around	you.
Then	you	enter	in	the	ranks	of	the	creative	archangels.	Because	maybe	I	am	not	allowed
to	 speak	 more	 about	 it.	 And	 believe	 me,	 life	 in	 a	 human	 body	 is	 imprisoning	 a	 God,
sending	him	in	exile.
No,	he	doesn't	want	to	speak	anymore	of	Yohannan.	But	believe	me,	it	is	in	life.	Life	is
much,	much	better.
Well,	your	bodies	are	good.	Make	good	use	of	them.	Live	a	good	life	in	your	bodies,	but
develop,	 develop	 your	 piety,	 personality,	 self,	 to	 its	 own	 nature,	 which	 is	 the	 soul	 self-
consciousness.

You	don't	have	just	to	lose	anything.	You	have	to	gain	everything.	Now	we	will	make	an
exercise.
Those	 who	 come	 tomorrow,	 there	 will	 be	 the	 lesson	 more	 on	 the	 bodies.	 Relax
completely.	Relax	the	whole	material	body	and	just	now	think	that	in	this	body	you	are
feeling	 you	 are	 in	 it	 and	 you	 call	 it	 yours,	 the	 Shekinah	 or	 the	 Holy	 Spirit,	 the	 total
wisdom	of	the	Father	and	the	Locos	and	seven	Orders	of	Archangels	are	working	in	it.
A	 great	 honor.	 From	 all	 the	 Archangelic	 Orders	 in	 creation,	 the	 seven	 Orders	 of	 the
Archangels	 in	 the	 creation,	 one	 from	 each	 Order	 is	 working	 in	 your	 bodies,	 in	 your
material	 body.	 Michael,	 the	 Lord	 of	 Light,	 Fire	 and	 Heat,	 cooperating	 with	 Gavrilo,	 one
Gavrilo	 in	 your	 body,	 the	 Lord	 of	 the	 Elements,	 and	 with	 Raphael,	 the	 Lord	 of	 the
Ethereal	 Vitality,	 all	 mind	 in	 different	 grades	 of	 vibrations,	 are	 working,	 using	 the	 total
wisdom	 of	 the	 Divine	 Plan	 to	 create	 in	 your	 body,	 the	 material	 body,	 the	 Red	 Warm
Blood.
What	 is	 the	 Red	 Warm	 Blood?	 Small	 independent	 living	 things.	 The	 blood	 cells.	 Again,
atoms.
Orthodox	scientists	will	find	out	great	truths	now.	But	now	we	care	about	what	we	call
the	Red	Blood.	Loaded	with	what	I	call	Vitality.
Mind.	Ethereal	Vitality.	What	the	Orthodox	scientists	found	out?	That	each	blood	cell	is
doing	a	certain	work	and	lives	its	own	life.
It	 has	 its	 own	 subconsciousness.	 You	 are	 a	 microcosm.	 What	 is	 going	 on	 in	 the
macrocosm	is	going	on	in	your	body	under	the	supervision	of	the	locus.
Moving	through	channels,	arteries	and	veins	and	organs	loaded	with	the	Etheric	Vitality
coming	from	the	Etheric	Double.	It	goes	around	creating	bones,	flesh,	nerves,	tissues.	So
many	things.
According	 to	 the	 Divine	 Plan	 of	 the	 human	 body.	 Working	 properly,	 these	 Archangels.
One	from	each	of	the	seven	orders.
Working	for	you	to	live	in	this	body.	Breathing	now.	Deeply.
The	air	you	are	breathing.	The	element	of	the	air	is	not	having	only	oxygen	and	what	the
Orthodox	science	says	but	it	has	also	the	mind	vitality.	Who	is	making	your	heart	work
and	beat	and	feel	it?	You!	Who?	The	locus.
So	you	don't	need	to	go	far	away	to	find	the	locus.	You	can	find	it	in	you.	In	your	material
body.
Just	that	part	of	your	heart	is	moving	the	blood.	And	the	blood	has	to	move	through	the
arteries	 to	 feed	 all	 the	 organs	 of	 your	 body.	 And	 tired?	 Through	 the	 veins	 now	 return

back	to	enter	in	the	lungs.
And	 in	 every	 breath	 of	 yours	 every	 cell	 in	 the	 lungs	 to	 be	 loaded	 again	 with	 etheric
vitality.	So	in	the	air	you	are	breathing	and	everywhere	is	the	etheric	vitality.	The	mind
vitality.
So	that	the	Archangels	will	get	that	stuff.	Let	us	call	it	stuff.	And	keep	all	the	organs	in
your	body	in	perfect	order.
If	you	stab	a	man	with	a	knife	on	the	thigh	and	create	a	wound	the	Holy	Archangels	will
try	to	close	it	down	and	heal	it.	If	you	have	a	broken	bone	a	broken	rib	and	a	foot	that
bone	will	join.	These	are	things	nobody	can	deny.
You	can	see	it	every	day	around	you.	Thank	the	Holy	Archangels	for	their	work	to	create
a	body	for	you	to	live	in	it.	That's	not	all	the	work.
The	 El	 Shaddai	 or	 the	 Logos	 is	 working	 in	 you	 giving	 you	 your	 personality's	 selfhood.
Allowing	of	course	the	fallen	ones	to	rub	it	with	shadows	so	that	you	will	take	them	away.
Be	a	burning	question.
What	 is	 that	 and	 what	 is	 that	 and	 I	 need	 an	 answer.	 Ask	 and	 it	 shall	 be	 given	 to	 you.
Knock	and	it	will	be	open	to	you.
Even	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the	 heavens	 will	 be	 open	 to	 you	 but	 you	 have	 to	 knock.	 Use	 the
divine	gift	of	the	mind's	super	substance.	Just	train	yourself	in	visualization.
This	is	the	nature	of	your	self.	A	soul.	Find	yourself	in	your	body	in	your	personality	and
in	your	God	divine	soul.
Then	life	is	worth	living.	When	you	understand	that	you	are	the	life.	Everything	in	your
life	may	be	good.
Collecting	things	may	be	good.	But	Joshua	had	given	a	parable.	A	collector	was	collecting
jewels.
Good	jewels.	Until	he	found	the	most	precious	pearl.	Then	he	said,	I	have	everything	and
I	am	having	it.
And	that	precious	pearl	is	your	self.	The	self-realization.	And	when	you	find	who	you	are
you	find	out	that	you	are	powerful.
You	 can	 express	 your	 divine	 qualities	 and	 divine	 nature.	 Preach	 now	 deeply.	 Now	 you
know	what	is	going	on.
The	 esoteric	 vitality	 of	 the	 mind	 is	 needed.	 In	 it	 are	 the	 archangels	 of	 the	 elements.
Working	for	you.

With	your	thought	now	your	mind	thank	them.	Preach	deeply	and	thank	them.	If	you	do
this	exercise	sometime	you	will	see	them.
They	 will	 appear	 to	 you	 in	 human	 form.	 Because	 they	 are	 allowed	 to	 get	 the	 human
form.	Working	on	the	human	form	to	build	your	bodies.
And	great	joy	is	to	the	angels	in	heaven.	You	are	angels	for	one	who	returns	back	home
to	 his	 own	 nature.	 They	 will	 guide	 you	 in	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the	 heavens	 which	 is	 in	 your
spiritual	self.
I	said	create	a	burning	question.	A	burning	question.	What	does	it	mean?	A	fire.
What	does	it	mean?	When	Yohanan	the	Baptist	has	seen	Christ,	his	cousin	coming	to	him
he	said	to	his	disciples	I	baptize	you	in	water	but	he	who	is	coming	after	me	will	baptize
you	in	fire	and	in	spirit.	That	burning	question	to	know	leads	you	to	the	baptism	of	fire.
And	this	light	fire	can	burn	all	the	straw	of	material	rubbish.
Hatreds,	envy	and	many	many	other	vices.	Amen.