

2-	Sight	of	the	Soul	-	Our	Many	Gifts	from	God
Now,	if	we	reach	that	level,	and	being	able	now	to	enter	in	the	cosmic	mind,	in	the	divine
memory,	which	is	in	us	also,	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	in	us,	and	live	again,	say,	a
personality,	which	had	been	created	by	our	spirit,	soul,	ego,	self,	and	manifested,	in	time
and	place,	in	the	past,	a	criminal,	a	Hitler,	for	example,	or	J.	Angus	Kahn.	What	happens?
Remembering	and	knowing	that	that	was	you.	It	was,	it's	not	you	now.
What	happens?	Living	again	those	experiences.	Here	is	the	divine	mercy	of	God,	the
most	merciful.	He	is	not	allowing	you	to	feel	any	pain.
Remembering,	 yes,	 but	 feeling	 pain,	 no.	 How?	 This	 is	 divine	 mercy.	 I	 give	 just	 an
example.
Suppose	you	undergo	an	operation,	very	serious	operation,	painful	operation,	or	giving
birth,	having	a	very	bad	birth.	You	had	pain,	much	pain.	After	some	time,	you	can
remember,	in	every	detail,	what	you	have	passed.
Can	you	remember	the	pain?	No.	You	can	remember	everything	except	the	pain.	The
pain	of	the	cross-material	body.
Now,	if	God	is	not	allowing	you	to	suffer	and	feel	pain	in	the	cross-material	body,	by
remembering	the	pain	you	had	in	the	past,	will	He	remember	you	to	feel	psychical	pain
or	neurotic	pain?	No.	So,	what	is	past	for	the	divine	super-intelligence	is	past.	It's	giving
what	we	call	experiences,	and	it's	working	in	the	coming	out	of	what	we	call	the	divine
plan.
Now,	suppose	you	have	a	child,	and	that	child	is	doing	much	nonsense,	just	causing
trouble,	and	grows	up	and	grows	up,	and	then	he's	a	man.	Will	you	remember	what	he
has	done	during	the	childhood?	No.	No	need	for	that.
Because	 the	 super-intelligence	 we	 call	 God	 the	 Father	 is	 not	 having	 what	 we	 call
punishing	 attitude	 towards	 his	 creatures.	 Creatures,	 because	 a	 human	 being	 is	 a
creature.	And	when	that	creature	reawakens	himself	into	God,	he's	not	going	just	to
mention	anything	of	the	past.
The	Divine	Father.	Joshua	Manuel	has	given	a	parable	for	that.	The	parable	of	the	lost
son.
Really,	that	parable	is	most	enlightening	from	many,	many	points	of	view.	Which	is,	the
youngest	son	had	asked	the	Father,	give	me	what	is	my	share,	what	I	can	inherit.	My
substance,	as	it's	written	there,	he	got	it	and	went	away.
He	made	very,	very	bad	use	of	this	so-called	substance,	which	is	in	our	case	the	mind,
super-substance.	He	spent	it,	he	says,	with	prostitutes,	with	sinners,	gambling,	using	it,

until	he	exhausted	it.	He	became	a	poor	fellow,	not	even	having	anything	to	eat,	to	use	it
as	food	for	his	personality.
So	he	had	to	give	himself	to	the	ruler	of	that	country,	who	had	sent	him	to	be	the	god	of
the	swine.	Which	swine?	The	demon,	the	human	demon	elementals,	which	he	is	creating.
I	have	mentioned	about	these	elementals.
So	I	have	the	lost	son,	making	bad	use	of	the	mind,	using	it.	Of	course,	the	holy
archangels	have	seen	that.	And	of	course,	they	are	not	so	merciful	as	the	Father.
Our	brother,	this	brother,	he	says,	who	went	out,	spent	everything,	everything,	he	came
back	to	you.	How	you	behave	to	him	in	this	way,	as	most	benevolent	father?	Just	read
this	parable.	It	says,	when	this	lost	son,	or	prodigal	son,	starving,	said,	in	the	house	of
my	father,	there	are	hired	servants,	who	have	everything,	elementals	of	the	archangels,
and	I	am	starving.
No,	he	receives	the	mind,	he	was	starving,	not	using	the	mind	now	in	the	proper	way,
but	keeping	it	as	the	swine,	the	human	demon	he	had	created,	and	feeling	himself
satisfied,	and	feeding	himself	even	in	the	pots	of	the	swine	who	are	taking	food.	That
means,	contaminated	mind	through	the	swine,	through	the	elementals.	He	said,	no,	I	will
come	back	to	my	father.
Which	means,	sooner	or	later,	what	is	divine,	will	become	again	divine.	It	will	depart	from
the	sinful	time	and	place	world	of	existence.	So,	deserting	to	go	back,	making	a	step
towards	the	father,	the	father	saw	him	and	ran	to	him,	embraced	him,	kissed	him,
brought	him	back.
He	said	to	his	servants,	bring	him	sandals	to	put	on	his	bare	feet.	That	means,	to	know
now	the	way	he	has	to	walk	on,	the	proper	way.	That	means,	giving	him	the	sandals.
Dress	him	the	best	suit	he	had	before	leaving	the	palace.	Bring	him	the	ring,	a	golden
ring	on	his	hand.	Now	you	know	what	is	time	and	the	course	of	things	in	eternity.
Something	we	call	the	archangels	do	not	know.	They	don't	have	it.	But,	the	fetid	calf	has
to	be	sacrificed.
That	means,	the	human	body,	the	flesh,	has	to	be	sacrificed.	So	that	you	will	live	now	as
a	spirit,	soul,	ego,	self.	In	your	human	form,	because	our	human	form	is	not	the	cross-
material	body.
As	the	cross-material	body	gets	the	human	form,	so	the	human	form	is	also	in	what	we
call	the	substance	and	the	super	substance,	which	is	ether	and	light	and	spirit.	So,	we
are	not	going	to	lose	our	form,	our	human	form.	Not	our	characteristics	as	personalities,
but	our	real	characteristics,	our	nature	as	spirit,	soul,	ego,	self.

So	now,	we	have	in	our	mind,	sooner	or	later,	wanting	it	or	not,	we	will	return	back	to	our
source,	to	our	real	nature,	to	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens,	which	is	in	us.	Now,	we	are	in
the	 water	 of	 existence,	 and	 we	 have	 wrapped	 ourselves	 with	 veils	 of	 darkness	 or
ignorance.	Not	knowing,	in	reality,	who	we	are	and	what	we	are.
Just	hearing	a	name,	male	or	female,	and	all	the	time	living	under	the	burden	of	our
desires,	emotions,	intentions,	vices,	weaknesses,	the	way	human	beings	are	living	today.
But	is	that	real	life?	No.	So,	I	said	in	a	lesson,	what	is	common	to	every	human	being	is
the	life.
All	of	them	are	living,	and	by	living,	having	in	their	personality	and	in	their	human
bodies,	the	parts	of	life,	from	this	point	of	view,	all	are	divine.	But	now,	each	one	living,
is	living	now	his	or	her	own	way	of	life,	which	is	not	the	life	in	reality,	but	their	own	life,	is
the	darkness	and	the	illusions,	which	are	given	in	the	world	of	separateness,	in	the	cross-
material	world,	in	the	world	of	existence.	All	worlds	of	existence	are	not	sinful.
No.	And	all	the	worlds	are	good,	have	been	created	by	the	Holy	Archangels,	the	Locos.
Perfect,	even	the	cross-material	world	is	nice	and	perfect.
It's	a	paradise.	You	can	enjoy	the	paradise,	if	you	have	the	paradise	in	you,	of	course.
Even	 the	 cross-material	 world,	 everything	 is	 very	 nice,	 well	 sustained	 by	 the	 Holy
Archangels.
Mountains,	oceans,	life	in	them,	trees,	flowers,	all	the	phenomena	of	life.	Really,	the
cross-material	world	is	a	paradise.	But	to	see	it	as	a	paradise,	you	must	have	a	paradise
in	us.
If	a	hell	is	created	in	us,	a	shell-hell,	how	can	we	enjoy	this	cross-material	paradise?
Likewise,	in	the	tactical	world,	in	and	around	our	planet,	and	in	the	nautical	world,
nothing	has	been	created	by	God,	Allah,	and	the	Holy	Archangels,	which	is	not	perfect.
But,	can	we	see	everything	perfect	ourselves?	If	we	are	not	perfect	ourselves?	No.	So,
I'm	telling	you,	all	the	planes	and	the	sub-planes	of	the	tactical	world	are	nice	and
perfect.
So,	of	the	nautical	world,	as	a	locality	and	as	landscapes,	but	you	find	them,	in	them	you
find,	wrapped	in	their	shell-hells,	many	shell-hells,	created	by	the	human	demons	in	their
personality.	So,	who	is	responsible	for	that?	It's	blasphemy	to	believe	that	God	is	or
exists	a	God,	punishing.	No!	God	is	most	benevolent.
If	I	give	an	example,	two	people	stab	each	other	with	daggers,	with	knives,	one	is	a
criminal	and	the	other	is	a	saint,	and	they	are	both	wounded.	And	you	take	them	to	a
hospital,	God	the	Father	will	do	the	best	to	close	down	the	wounds	of	both,	of	the
criminal	and	of	the	good	fellow,	and	will	just	join	broken	bones	to	both.	And	God	is
sending	His	rain,	says	Joshua,	both	to	the	wicked	and	to	the	good.

So,	only	men	having	wicked	minds	can	conceive	of	a	God	who	is	wicked	or	revengeful.
God	the	Father	is	loving	or	loved.	So,	God	created	the	absolute	infinite	beingness,	using
the	divine	plan	and	the	total	wisdom	of	Himself	and	His	Father,	of	the	Holy	Archangels,	is
most	perfect.
But	the	human	beings,	incarnated	and	humanized,	had	wrapped	themselves	in	veils	of
darkness	and	of	ignorance.	Yet,	yet,	the	Holy	Father	is	granting	to	the	human	beings,
even	wicked,	criminal,	the	mind	to	differ	completely	from	the	animals	around	them,	from
the	 ferocious	 animals	 around	 them.	 And	 even	 using	 the	 mind,	 the	 human	 beings
subconsciously,	they	have	changed	the	face	of	the	planet	from	what	it	was.
Buildings,	cities,	light,	computers,	and	what	not.	Using	subconsciously	the	mind.	Just
think,	 if	 the	 human	 being	 was	 using	 the	 mind	 now,	 self-consciously	 and	 super-
consciously,	can	they	do	it	in	the	future?	Yes,	of	course,	they	will	do	it	in	the	future.
After	how	many	centuries,	does	it	matter?	Have	the	whole	eternity	in	front	of	us.	Doesn't
matter	when.	But,	the	destiny	of	a	human	being	in	the	future,	on	this	planet,	is	to	live	as
God.
A	divine	life,	not	a	sinful	human	life.	But	even	the	divine	life,	why	not	be	human?	Since
we	have	our	human	thought	in	the	light,	instead	of	in	the	clay	and	in	the	mud.	So,	now,
what	is	the	duty	of	a	seeker	of	the	truth?	By	using,	even	as	a	petty	time	and	place
personality,	George	or	Mary,	its	latent	inner	nature,	the	divine	nature	of	observation,	and
using	now	the	mind	and	observation	in	the	right	way,	find	out	ways	to	disentangle,	to
free	 the	 mind	 from	 being	 a	 slave	 of	 lower	 vibrations,	 which	 are	 desires,	 emotions,
weaknesses,	and	many,	many	other	expressions	in	life,	making	now	good	use	of	the
mind.
What	can	he	not	do?	If,	by	being	evil,	he	had	done	so	much	on	the	planet,	the	human
being	had	changed	much	from	the	old	times,	in	which	we	were	killing	each	other,	they
do	kill	now	each	other	again.	So,	by	introspection,	observation,	and	looking	within,
checking	now	what?	The	personality,	starting	from	our	own	personality,	then	starting
also	the	personalities	of	other	people,	to	find	the	sources	or	the	causes	of	the	misery	of	a
human	being.	What	the	enlightened	ones	said	before,	years,	many,	many	years,	even
500	years	before	the	birth	of	Christ	in	Greece,	in	old	Egypt,	in	India,	Lord	Buddha,	that
the	main	cause	of	evil	is	the	false	idea	of	desiring,	creating	an	egoistic	self,	and	having	in
mind	of	possessing.
Possessing	what?	Things	we	did	not	create.	We	are	creatures,	we	are	not	creators.	So,
the	Lord	Buddha	had	taught	detachment,	disattachment,	how	you	call	it?	Disattachment
or	detachment?	Had	taught	it.
500	years	before	the	birth	of	Christ,	that	it	is	2,500	years,	did	the	Buddhists,	all	the
Buddhists,	have	understood	what	the	enlightened	one	was	teaching	them?	Are	they

detached	from	desires?	Not	from	selfishness,	not	from	selfishness.	We	cannot	criticize	as
Joshua	said	to	criticize.	Now,	what	about	us?	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ	came	and	spoke
clearly	on	these	matters.
More	clearly	than	Buddha	had	taught.	Not	only	he	has	taught	everything,	Joshua	Manuel,
but	he	has	proved	it.	By	his	crucifixion,	his	resurrection,	the	resurrection	of	his	body.
He	had	proved	it.	So,	what	is	the	duty	of	a	human	being	now?	To	what?	Just	start
studying,	by	using	observation	as	the	divine	nature	of	a	soul,	spirit,	self.	Because,
seriously	study	our	behavior.
Study	the	nature	of	desire.	From	all	points	of	view.	Because	desire,	as	the	old	Greeks
had	presented	it	in	their	myth,	is	the	hydra	of	learning.
A	many,	many	headed	serpent.	It	says,	when	Hercules	went	to	kill	it,	that	means	the	ego
self,	cutting	off	a	head	from	the	wound,	two	other	heads	were	appearing.	And	this	is
what	happens.
If	you	overcome	a	desire,	overcome	a	desire,	how?	Overcoming	it.	If	it	is	fulfilled,	it	is
neglected,	and	other	desires	appear	immediately.	If	it	is	not	fulfilled,	it	is	still	worse.
It	is	keeping,	what	you	call,	certain	wounds	in	your	egoism	self,	which	lead	many,	many
times	to	revenge,	enmity,	aggression,	weaknesses,	passions.	So,	we	have	just	to	study.
Each	desire,	we	had.
Each	desire,	we	don't	have	now,	and	others	have	it.	Seriously.	How	they	are	born?	How
they	are	developing?	When	they	are	fulfilled,	what	do	they	give	this	desire?	Satisfaction?
How	much?	The	fatigue?	Dissatisfaction?	80%	of	the	desires,	after	fulfilled,	are	giving
dissatisfaction	instead	of	satisfaction,	because	one	is	feeling	tired,	that	they	were	not
worthy	of	so	much	pain	and	trouble.
Even	enjoying	a	desire,	they	feel	tired.	If	not	satisfied,	what	follows?	So,	I	said,	our	divine
nature	is	observation,	and	using	the	mind	properly	in	understanding	things.	How?	By
taking	away	the	human	egoism.
Your	egoism	for	interfering,	and	just	giving	suggestions.	Yes,	but,	you	know,	yes.	Keep
silent.
I	am	studying	now.	I	am	thinking.	I	don't	need	your	advice.
So,	the	first	thing	in	introspection	is	to	put	aside	the	human	egoism.	You	are	egoism,	and
you	now	are	spirit,	soul,	self,	free	from	influences,	by	time	and	place,	circumstances,	and
the	personal	egoism,	to	see	the	truth.	To	see	everything	the	light	of	truth.
Now,	using	the	mind	properly,	the	mind	will	enlighten	you.	Then	you	will	understand	the
value	of	what	you	call	the	mind.	In	what?	In	giving	you	clean	thoughts.

Enlightening	thoughts.	Extending	itself	in	you,	as	what	I	call	real	vision.	What	I	call
ecstasy.
Giving	you	the	power	of	attunement	to	anything	you	like.	In	attunement	to	something,	to
know,	you	have	to	take	aside	the	human	egoism.	You	are	egoism.
And	you	will	use	it	now	as	soul,	ego,	self.	Not	as	a	male	or	female	person.	So,	we	have	to
develop,	first	of	all,	our	time	and	place	personality,	to	transmute	it,	at	least	to	some
extent,	to	our	soul,	self,	ego,	self,	the	real	being,	to	be	able	to	see	clearly	things	I	want	to
see	and	know.
What	 you	 find	 out?	 That	 thinking	 means	 having.	 What	 this	 means,	 you	 will	 never
understand,	if	I	tell	you	in	words,	unless	you	reach	that	stage,	to	exercise	it	and	know	it.
So,	 again	 I	 repeat,	 I	 get	 from	 the	 minds	 of	 many	 people,	 how	 shall	 we	 become
clairvoyant,	that	means	medium,	or	clairvoyant,	here,	many,	by	just	concentrating	in
another	or	somewhere	else,	may	hear	voices,	and	they	will	feel	frightened,	because	they
are	not	ready	to	see	and	understand	what	they	hear.
So,	I	say	that	nothing	is	more	dangerous	than	spiritualism	and	mediumship,	if	you	are
not	ready	to	know	and	understand	what	is	what.	So,	the	first	thing,	a	seeker	of	the	truth
has	to	ask	having,	is	the	self-development,	knowing	the	truth,	and	transmuting	the
present	personality,	being	a	man	or	a	woman,	into	the	real	soul,	individual	self,	which	is
neither	man	nor	a	woman,	but	a	God.	And	then,	as	an	ego,	just	answering	to	what	you
are	saying,	I	am	I,	that	I,	with	capital	letters,	then	everything	will	be	given	to	you.
Joseph	Emmanuel	de	Christ	said,	seek	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens,	become	master	of
the	psychical	and	nautical	nature	of	yours	and	of	the	world,	and	everything	will	be	added
to	you.	Because,	this	is	the	real	game.	Now,	he	says,	he	gave	another	parable.
A	man	was	collecting	precious	stones,	and	when	he	found	the	most	precious	stone,	he
said,	no,	I	don't	want	any	other	things.	I	will	have	this	precious	pearl,	that's	enough	for
me.	Which	is	that	precious	pearl?	A	man	found	and	bought,	and	became	satisfied	having
it.
Which	is	that	precious	pearl?	Your	ego	self.	To	know	who	and	what	you	are,	as	even	a
human	being,	but	not	a	human	egoist.	Because	I	am	telling	you,	to	be	human	is	a	great
honor,	by	God,	and	not	be	an	animal.
Now,	we'll	make	an	exercise.	Tomorrow,	it	will	be	the	last	lesson	of	this	season,	we'll
speak	more	about	the	mind	elementals,	and	maybe	introspection,	and	checking	desires
and	emotions,	and	how	to	react	to	the	personal	egoism,	which	will	appear	every	time,
just	to	take	you	out	of	the	way	of	right	thinking.	Now,	relax	completely	your	body.
The	Holy	Ark,	I	just	allow	you	to	call	it	yours,	although	it	is	theirs,	not	yours.	Call	it	yours,
you	are	living	in	it.	Now,	breathe	and	feel	you	are	in	your	material	body.

From	the	toes	of	your	feet,	until	the	forehead.	You	are,	you	feel	you	are	in	the	cross-
material	body.	Yet,	you	don't	know	who	you	are.
But	you	are	feeling	you	are	there.	Feeling,	it	means	you	are	using	now,	your	psychical
body,	and	you	are	a	third	couple	of	your	material	body.	Because	the	feeling	is	of	the
psychical	body.
Now,	you	can	use	it	in	your	cross-material	body.	You	can	feel	in	every	part	of	your
material	body.	Feel	your	material	body.
And	you	are	feeling	you	are	psychical	body.	Calm	down	in	you	all	emotions.	All	of
thoughts.
The	only	thing	you	are	feeling,	you	are	living	in	your	cross-material	body.	Now,	breathe
deeply.	And	concentrate	in	the	air	entering	into	your	lungs.
What	is	in	the	air?	Entering	in	your	lungs.	Besides	oxygen,	it	is	the	etheric	vitality,	it	is
the	mind.	Breathe,	feel	your	lungs.
Feel	in	all	your	material	body,	yet	feel	now,	in	the	air	entering	in	your	lungs.	Breathe
deeply,	but	with	comfort.	Who	are	you	who	can	do	that?	Your	cross-material	body	is
living,	whether	you	notice	it	or	you	don't.
It	is	under	the	care	of	the	Holy	Archangels	of	the	elements.	And	the	hair,	all	the	hair,	on
your	body	are	numbered.	They	are	growing,	each	one.
So	you	don't	know	them.	But	the	Holy	Archangels	do.	They	are	working	for	you,	building
your	cross-material	body.
You.	Whom?	Your	petty	time	and	place	personality.	Yes,	you	have	to	analyze	it.
Know	it.	Check	it.	Check	your	feelings.
Check	your	desires.	Check	your	intentions.	Check	the	way	you	are	living.
Study	your	personality.	Breathe	deeply	and	the	mind	is	granted	to	you.	The	super-
substance	of	the	mind	which	is	everywhere.
Put	the	question	now.	Who	am	I?	Forget	your	name	and	the	sex.	Who	am	I?	What	am	I?
Two	different	questions.
Don't	expect	the	answer	now.	You	are	Holy	Archangels	and	you	are.	God	the	Archangel
heard	you.
And	 he	 will	 reply	 to	 you.	 Doesn't	 matter	 when.	 Maybe	 you	 will	 be	 sleeping	 as	 a
personality	or	awakened.

A	time	you	don't	expect	it.	You	will	get	the	answer	and	you	will	know	from	where	you	get
the	answer.	Who	am	I?	I	am	not	the	person	having	this	or	that	name.
Or	being	of	that	or	that	sex.	Who	am	I?	And	you	will	know	much	about	your	personality.
Its	way	of	behaving,	living	and	the	way	to	transmute	itself	to	your	ego	soul	self.
And	when	you	say,	Who	am	I?	Joshua	Manuel	will	reply	to	you.	He	said	that	already.	You
are	God.
You	are	all	offsprings	of	Allah,	of	God	the	Father.	And	ask	him,	call	him	your	father.	Don't
call	any	human	being	your	father	on	earth.
All	of	you	are	sons	of	the	Almighty.	One	is	the	father	of	all	human	beings.	God.
You	are	God.	So,	who	am	I?	And	what	am	I?	And	expect	to	get	the	answers.	Directly
yourself.
Sometime.	I	am	sorry	but	they	were	very	noisy.	I	am	sorry.
Talking.	Talking.	Trying	to	take	photo.