

2-	The	Christ	Logos	and	the	Divine	Selfhood
So,	 this	 ladder,	 with	 many,	 many,	 many	 steps,	 is	 the	 mind.	 And	 using	 it,	 we	 have	 to
develop,	in	our	selfhood,	the	various	kinds	of	consciousness.	Now,	by	observation,	what
we	 see?	 This	 consciousness	 is	 not	 only	 to	 serve	 the	 selfhood,	 but	 also	 to	 serve	 all	 the
other	phenomena	of	life	around	us.
Because	 the	 mind	 is	 everywhere.	 It's	 used	 by	 the	 holy	 archangels,	 in	 the	 trees	 and	 the
animals.	 And	 what	 we	 find,	 as	 phenomena	 of	 life,	 reaching	 this	 stage	 of	 the	 selfhood,
that	the	stones,	the	crystals,	the	metals,	everything,	they	have	a	kind	of	sensitivity.
They	are	sensitive	to	the	weather,	to	the	etheric	vibrations,	to	electricity,	to	magnetism.
Each	of	these	elements,	we	call	matter.	Because	matter	is	a	solid	mind.
It	has	a	certain	sensitivity.	If	you	touch	a	piece	of	glass	to	a	loaded	wire	with	electricity,
it	will	 not	catch	 electricity.	 But	if	 you	get	 a	 piece	of	 iron	and	 touch	 it,	that	 would	shake
you.
Why?	A	piece	of	matter	and	one	and	the	other.	Or	a	piece	of	wood.	If	you	wet	the	wood,
you	put	water	in	it,	dare	to	touch	a	loaded	wire.
Why?	You	leave	away,	in	a	dumb	weather,	a	piece	of	gold.	That	will	not	affect	it.	If	you
leave	a	piece	of	iron,	you	see	drafty.
Why?	So,	even	what	we	call	life,	in	the	metals	and	in	the	gross	matter,	that	is	what	we
observe	 and	 say	 sensitivity.	 Do	 human	 beings	 have	 this	 sensitivity?	 Yes.	 Because	 a
human	being	has	everything.
We	 have	 that	 sensitivity.	 Because	 we	 have	 the	 mind	 matter	 in	 our	 body	 also.	 Then	 we
see	this	sensitivity	in	various	grades.
You	see	a	nice	flower	outside.	The	sun	rises	and	then	the	flower	turns	to	the	sun.	Why?
That's	a	higher	state	of	sensitivity	than	the	sensitivity	of	the	metals	or	the	crystals.
Now,	we	see	in	the	animal	life,	we	see	sensitivity	plus	a	kind	of	subconsciousness,	which
you	 call	 instinct.	 The	 instinctive	 kind	 of	 consciousness.	 Do	 human	 beings	 have	 this
instinctive	subconsciousness?	Of	course	they	have	it.
And	 by	 studying,	 meditating	 and	 concentration	 and	 observation,	 one	 finds	 out	 that	 he
has	  the	  sensitivity,	  he	  has	  the	  instinctive	  consciousness,	  and	  you	  have	  the
subconsciousness.	 Most	 of	 the	 living	 forms	 around	 us	 in	 the	 animal	 kingdom	 are
expressing	 this	 subconsciousness.	 This	 subconsciousness	 is	 common	 to	 all	 kinds	 of	 life
around	us.
And	 all	 those	 modes	 of	 consciousness	 are	 in	 the	 Holy	 Spirit.	 So	 everything	 is	 governed

by	the	Holy	Spirit	and	the	Holy	Archangels,	who	are	creating	the	elemental	angels	using
the	total	wisdom	to	give	us	all	this	phenomena	of	life	all	around	us.	Now,	we	have	what
we	call	subconsciousness	in	the	human	being.
Of	 course,	 subconsciousness	 in	 the	 human	 being	 has	 been	 greatly	 misunderstood.	 We
are	using	this	word	for	different	modes	of	existence.	We	have	to	study	them.
Then	 what	 do	 we	 have	 more	 to	 the	 human	 being,	 which	 we	 don't	 see	 in	 the	 animal
kingdom	 around	 us?	 The	 self-consciousness.	 From	 this	 point,	 the	 human	 being	 is	 God.
So,	developing	now	this	self-consciousness	to	higher	levels.
Now,	 I'm	 asking	 you,	 do	 human	 beings	 all	 around	 us,	 even	 in	 the	 so-called	 civilized
world,	 have	 a	 self-consciousness?	 Or	 are	 they	 living	 subconsciously?	 They	 think	 they
have	 a	 self-consciousness,	 while	 they	 are	 living	 subconsciously.	 And	 they	 have	 to	 work
until	  they	  create	  in	  themselves	  that	  self-consciousness,	  even	  of	  the	  present-day
personality.	Because	we	have	now	the	self	of	the	present-day	personality	in	the	world	of
separateness.
To	 develop	 it	 into	 what?	 Into	 the	 super-consciousness.	 And	 after	 that,	 to	 the	 self-super-
consciousness.	By	developing	in	us	what	I	call	attunement	to	something.
But	it	needs	training.	Much	training.	Not	only	years	of	training.
Centuries	of	training.	And	then	develop	it	still	higher,	higher.	Until	we	reach	that	super-
consciousness,	self-super-consciousness,	which	is	what	you	call	oneness.
Becoming	one.	Becoming	one	with	what?	With	anything.	With	any	form.
With	the	Archangels.	With	the	Logos.	With	God.
So,	 reaching	 to	 that	 state	 of	 self-super-consciousness,	 what	 I	 call	 attunement,	 then	 you
know	who	you	are.	You	are	what?	What	you	were	always	without	knowing	it.	God.
And	 what	 is	 God	 now?	 A	 super-conscious	 being.	 Composing	 the	 absolute,	 infinite
beingness,	 the	 Logos,	 and	 the	 absolute,	 infinite	 beingness,	 the	 Holy	 Spirit.	 Now,	 if	 you
understand	 these	 two	 great,	 great	 powers,	 which	 are	 in	 us,	 in	 the	 Kingdom	 of	 the
Heavens,	 which	 is	 in	 us,	 and	 how	 to	 develop	 them,	 then	 you	 understand	 what	 is	 the
purpose	in	life.
What	is	life?	What	should	life	be?	Now,	as	human	beings	are	today,	they	are	living.	I	say
that	they	are	subconsciously	living.	They	don't	know,	because	they	cannot	meditate.
They	 cannot	 use	 their	 self-conscious	 mind.	 What	 Joshua	 the	 Christ	 was	 calling	 his
common	people	all	around	us,	even	now	in	the	civilized	countries.	It	is	clear	there.
A	fellow	approached	Christ,	Joshua,	told	him,	Sir,	I	want	to	follow	you.	You	are	teaching

things	divine.	I	want	to	follow	you.
But	 my	 father	 and	 my	 mother	 are	 living.	 Yet.	 Wait	 until	 they	 pass	 over,	 and	 then,	 of
course,	I	will	follow	you.
And	what	did	Joshua	the	Christ	reply	to	him?	You	follow	me,	and	let	the	dead	bury	their
own	 dead.	 Let	 the	 dead	 bury	 their	 own	 dead.	 So	 for	 Joshua	 the	 Christ,	 the	 common
people	all	around,	and	today	as	they	are,	are	considered	dead.
And	 not	 really	 living.	 So.	 Now,	 what	 is	 life?	 What	 did	 he	 say?	 I	 am	 life	 and	 the
resurrection.
What	 does	 it	 mean,	 the	 resurrection?	 A	 word	 which	 has	 been	 so	 much	 misunderstood.
We	are	waking	up	to	what	we	are.	That	is	the	resurrection.
Resurrection	does	not	mean	our	material	body	to	die	and	be	recomposed	and	we	enter
again	in	that	dirty	sack,	we	call	it,	material	body.	That	is	not	resurrection.	Though	many
think	that	the	word	resurrection	means	the	material	body	to	be	resurrected.
No,	 resurrection	 means	 to	 wake	 up	 into	 your	 own	 state	 and	 nature.	 That	 is	 the
resurrection.	He	said,	I	am	the	life	and	the	resurrection.
And	 he	 who	 believes	 in	 me	 will	 have	 everlasting	 life.	 Again,	 I	 suggest	 that	 each	 one
should	 have	 the	 New	 Testament	 as	 his	 or	 her	 best	 friend.	 And	 enter	 in	 the	 great,	 great
meanings	especially	of	the	sayings	of	Joshua	the	Christ.
So,	we	said	enough	theory	now.	Something	practical	now,	which	you	have	to	do.	What	do
we	have	to	do	now?	We	are	living	in	a	material	body.
And	I	tell	you	that	your	material	body	has	in	it	or	it	is	in	your	etheric	double.	How	many
of	you	know	that?	Though	you	are	using	that	etheric	double.	Subconsciously.
That's	 why	 I	 said	 a	 human	 being	 is	 living	 subconsciously.	 I	 am	 telling	 you	 that	 but	 also
you	 have	 a	 psychical	 body	 with	 its	 etheric	 double.	 Who	 knows	 that?	 Saint	 Paul
mentioned	it.
I	spoke	about	the	logical	body.	You	are	using	it	subconsciously.	But	who	knows	it?	These
are	the	various	kinds	of	consciousness	of	the	locals.
And	 what	 Saint	 John	 the	 Evangelist	 said	 The	 selfhood	 is	 life.	 And	 it	 is	 the	 light	 to	 every
man.	And	the	light	shines	in	the	darkness.
And	 the	 darkness	 does	 not	 comprehend	 it.	 What	 does	 it	 mean?	 Joshua	 the	 Christ	 the
selfhood	is	in	everyone	of	us.	Everyone	has	a	petty	little	sense	of	selfhood.
Just	 centered	 on	 a	 name	 and	 the	 body.	 A	 female	 or	 male	 name	 and	 a	 body.	 Without

knowing	its	nature	that	selfhood	has	life.
And	so	Joshua	or	the	locals	is	the	selfhood.	In	him	is	life.	And	the	life	is	the	light	of	men
giving	them	this	selfhood.
And	the	light	shines.	It	is	the	mind.	It	shines.
We	can	use	it	to	shine	in	the	darkness.	And	the	darkness,	which	means	you	are	present
in	 the	 personality	 does	 not	 comprehend	 it.	 It	 is	 just	 the	 first	 sentences	 with	 which	 St.
John	the	Evangelist	begins	his	gospel.
Great	wisdom.	Yes,	but	great	wisdom,	we	must	find	it	out.	We	must	work	to	make	it	truth
for	us.
To	 work	 for	 it.	 By	 using	 the	 mind.	 So	 what	 is	 the	 aim	 of	 the	 system	 for	 the	 research	 of
the	truth?	We	are	just	having	it	now.
What	for?	There	must	be	a	reason.	Just	to	teach	humans	every	human	being	the	way	to
the	light.	How?	By	training	the	self,	the	petty	little	self	of	the	personality	to	raise	that	self
to	higher	levels	of	consciousness	and	self-realization.
By	 teaching	 people	 how	 to	 study	 and	 know	 the	 nature	 of	 the	 mind's	 substance
composing	the	psychical	body,	etc.	Controlling	the	emotions.	Controlling	the	desires.
Controlling	 that	 self	 of	 the	 personality.	 Controlling	 the	 human	 egoism.	 And	 then	 using
the	mind	as	super-substance	now	as	thought.
Right	 thought	 and	 reason.	 And	 when	 one	 will	 do	 that	 he	 will	 find	 his	 way	 back.	 There
was,	he	said,	a	woman	who	got	three	measures	of	flour,	mixed	them	with	water	until	the
whole	thing	became	living.
It	 was	 Christ	 teaching	 bakers	 how	 to	 make	 bread.	 What	 did	 he	 mean?	 Who	 is	 that
woman?	The	personality.	Taking	the	three	measures.
The	 material	 body,	 the	 psychical	 body,	 and	 the	 ethical	 body.	 Mixing	 them	 with	 water.
That	means	with	the	mind,	with	the	reason,	until	all	of	them	became	one	living.
That's	what	Christ	meant	by	that	great	word.	So	what	we	are	supposed	to	do?	Know	the
nature	of	our	material	body,	of	matter.	Study	it.
By	 studying	 it,	 we	 will	 find	 the	 total	 wisdom	 of	 the	 archangels	 which	 have	 built	 it	 and
who	are	working	every	moment	in	the	material	body	for	us.	Do	you	live	in	your	material
body	by	right	or	by	grace?	By	right.	How?	By	living	a	life	which	causes	illnesses	to	your
material	body.
The	illnesses	and	the	wounds	and	the	broken	bones	you	are	doing	on	the	material	body.

The	holy	archangels	are	constantly	working	to	repair	the	harm	you	are	causing.	To	close
up	wounds	and	make	bones	join.
That's	what	happens.	Everybody	will	notice	that.	Everybody	will	notice	that.
The	 holy	 archangels	 in	 his	 material	 body	 are	 working	 continuously	 to	 keep	 it	 in	 good
order.	 So	 we	 as	 personality	 now	 the	 way	 we	 are	 living,	 do	 we	 deserve	 to	 live	 in	 that
material	body	built	up	with	such	great	wisdom?	It's	up	to	you	to	decide.	And	then	a	step
forward.
If	 you	 decide	 now	 as	 your	 personality	 the	 petty	 self	 to	 take	 control	 at	 this	 moment	 you
are	 the	 victim	 of	 circumstances	 without	 studying	 what	 are	 emotions	 what	 are	 thoughts
being	 unhappy	 and	 all	 that.	 Now	 you	 decide	 to	 know	 the	 truth	 to	 set	 you	 free	 from	 the
illusions	from	the	prejudices	from	pain,	from	sorrow	and	then	you	start	changing	things
starting	 seriously	 the	 nature	 of	 desire	 of	 emotion	 seeing	 your	 subconsciousness	 what
was	the	outcome	all	through	the	time	which	has	passed	of	your	surrendering	yourself	to
emotions	 uncontrolled	 emotions	 and	 desires	 creating	 in	 your	 subconsciousness	 hatreds
jealousies	weaknesses	so	many	things.	Now	you	have	to	decide	to	study	all	these	things
and	free	yourself	from	the	consequences	of	all	that.
How?	 By	 using	 the	 reason	 now.	 Using	 the	 mind	 you	 start	 using	 the	 mind	 to	 control	 the
emotions	 to	 remedy	 the	 illnesses	 of	 the	 body	 and	 of	 the	 emotional	 body	 that	 means	 of
your	psychical	body	but	is	that	the	aim	of	it?	That	would	be	a	great,	great	gain	because
you	would	succeed	doing	that	but	the	greatest	gain	is	subconscious	creativity	in	finding
yourself	Who	am	I?	Who	can	do	it?	I	can	control	this	material	body	therefore	I	am	not	a
material	 body	 I	 can	 control	 my	 emotions,	 my	 desires	 therefore	 I	 am	 not	 that	 because
they	 are	 changing	 I	 can	 even	 correct	 things	 overcome	 weaknesses	 there	 are	 so	 many
weaknesses	 leading	 to	 so	 many	 kinds	 of	 evil	 and	 now	 I	 am	 using	 the	 mind	 Who	 am	 I?
Who	can	do	that?	You	will	get	a	reply	from	your	guardian	angel	I	tell	you	my	love	you	are
God,	we	are	Gods	wake	up	What	is	another	gain	after	doing	that?	You	will	come	without
knowing	 it	 in	 conscious	 contact	 with	 the	 archangels	 at	 the	 beginning	 you	 will	 feel	 that
they	 use	 intuition	 to	 show	 you	 the	 light	 and	 say	 yes,	 now	 I	 understand	 I	 am	 thinking	 I
think	I	am	thinking	rightly	but	this	thought	is	not	method,	it	came	from	outside	mistake	it
came	 from	 within	 because	 the	 holy	 archangel	 is	 in	 you	 and	 not	 outside	 I	 had	 many
people	saying	to	me,	Askale	you	know	what	is	inspiration?	I	said,	you	find	out	he	said,	no
in	my	meditation	I	was	thinking	like	that	it	came	to	me	and	I	knew	that	that	thought	was
not	mine,	it	came	from	without	I	said,	no	you	are	mistaken	it	didn't	come	from	without	it
came	 from	 within	 from	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the	 heavens	 which	 is	 in	 you	 some	 of	 them	 of
course	are	feeling	afraid	at	the	beginning	but	it	needs	courage	the	first	contact	with	your
guardian	 angel	 who	 sometimes	 gives	 very	 bad	 slaps	 when	 you	 overdo	 it	 which	 God	 of
course	thinks	of	consciousness	but	he	is	a	loving	archangel	very	loving	archangel	when
one	is	doing	what	is	good	to	do	and	then	apart	from	the	inspiration	and	the	intuition	you
will	see	them	will	you	materialize?	No	will	you	psychicalize?	because	you	will	develop	in

the	  meantime	  the	  psychical	  vision	  which	  is	  clairvoyance	  you	  will	  hear	  which	  is
clairaudience	is	that	all?	no	because	by	training	one	day	sitting	you	will	find	oh	my	body
is	here	and	I	am	there	where	am	I?	where	am	I?	then	you	will	come	back	entering	your
body	and	you	know	that	you	are	outside	of	your	body	many	many	times	without	knowing
it	 now	 you	 develop	 the	 self-consciousness	 of	 course	 there	 are	 ways	 in	 the	 innermost
circle	 innermost	 circle	 of	 our	 system	 the	 brother	 instructor	 is	 giving	 instructions	 how	 to
make	self-conscious	exosomatosis	then	the	real	gain	is	that	you	know	there	is	no	death
by	 reasoning	 you	 are	 convinced	 there	 is	 no	 death	 because	 in	 every	 24	 hours	 certain
hours	 you	 are	 entering	 in	 a	 state	 of	 nothingness	 you	 are	 in	 a	 dream	 you	 are	 in	 a	 sleep
without	any	dream	yet	you	wake	up	and	recompose	yourself	which	means	that	state	of
nothingness	 you	 have	 entered	 is	 not	 injuring	 your	 personality	 or	 yourself	 it	 is	 quite
independent	 and	 you	 feel	 recomposing	 yourself	 now	 you	 have	 a	 greater	 proof	 I	 am	 not
that	body	there	I	can	move	wherever	I	like	to	go	of	course	you	will	be	instructed	how	to
do	that	because	it	is	not	only	the	material	world	you	will	be	able	to	move	about	you	will
find	 yourself	 in	 the	 psychical	 world	 and	 you	 must	 be	 sure	 that	 you	 are	 not	 finding	 the
exosomatosis	yourself	in	any	self-created	hell	so	you	will	be	taught	also	how	to	build	up
your	 paradise,	 you	 will	 call	 it	 like	 that	 and	 pull	 down	 your	 dungeon,	 the	 hell	 you	 have
built	 already	 but	 we	 said	 by	 controlling	 the	 emotions	 and	 the	 desires	 and	 freeing
ourselves	from	the	weaknesses,	hatred	madness	the	feeling	of	attacking	and	all	that	we
already	 demolished	 our	 hell	 because	 I	 am	 telling	 you	 when	 a	 fellow	 passes	 over	 to	 the
other	side	who	knows	at	any	moment	it	may	happen	to	everybody	by	accident,	by	illness
by	heart	failure	there	are	many	ways	nobody	will	find	himself	or	herself	in	any	hell	or	in
any	paradise,	they	are	not	already,	so	we	have	from	now	to	demolish	that	prison	or	our
hell	 and	 with	 the	 same	 material	 which	 is	 the	 mind	 build	 up	 a	 better	 place	 for	 us	 place
because	 in	 the	 other	 side	 it	 is	 the	 sense	 of	 place	 Christ	 said	 I	 go	 in	 the	 house	 of	 my
father,	there	are	many	many	mansions	I	go	to	prepare	place	for	you,	the	sense	of	place,
now	of	course	we	think	what	is	the	difference	between	place	and	space	there	are	many
many	things	one,	seeker	of	the	truth	has	to	engage	himself	with	many	many	branches	of
study	 and	 always	 there	 is	 the	 reward	 now	 we	 will	 make	 a	 meditation	 relax	 completely
feel	you	are	relaxed	from	the	legs	thighs	abdomen	chest	breathe	deeply	and	comfortably
silence	down	completely	in	you	every	emotion	you	have	to	start	now	to	think	slowly	you
feel	 you	 are	 in	 that	 material	 body	 of	 yours	 now	 everywhere	 in	 the	 material	 body	 head
chest,	hands	abdomen,	feet	feel	you	are	in	your	material	body	I	said	start	thinking	slowly
you	have	to	slow	down	the	way	of	thinking	who	am	I	don't	be	in	a	hurry	put	this	question
slowly	who	am	I	in	this	material	body	is	this	material	body	mine	I	am	in	it	I	am	in	it	who
am	 I	 forget	 your	 name	 forget	 your	 human	 form	 put	 the	 question	 directly	 you	 want	 to
investigate	 your	 selfhood	 not	 the	 material	 body	 the	 gross	 matter	 the	 matter	 is	 nothing
the	 spirit	 is	 life	 giving	 you,	 you	 are	 the	 spirit	 who	 am	 I	 what	 am	 I	 casting	 away	 from
myself	 emotions	 desires	 thoughts	 yet	 I	 remain	 myself	 I	 am	 I	 that	 I-ness	 I	 want	 to	 know
and	 feel	 that	 it	 is	 myself	 not	 my	 desires	 my	 weaknesses	 or	 my	 thoughts	 all	 these	 are
changing	 but	 I	 am	 not	 changing	 I	 am	 the	 everlasting	 life	 whether	 I	 am	 in	 a	 dreamless
deep	 sleep	 I	 am	 recomposing	 my	 petty	 little	 time	 and	 place	 self	 I	 am	 the	 same	 I-ness	 I

am	the	life	and	the	truth	what	am	I	an	entity	receiving	impressions	from	outside	from	the
material	 world	 yes,	 at	 that	 but	 I	 am	 more	 than	 that	 much,	 much	 more	 than	 that	 I	 am	 I
this	I-ness	myself	I	want	to	know	entering	the	real	self-realization	what	am	I	then	you'll
receive	the	answer	not	now	maybe	sometime	you'll	be	sleeping	and	you'll	wake	up	and
you'll	know	the	answer	the	holy	archangels	and	your	guardian	angel	heard	you	and	when
time	 will	 come	 they'll	 think	 it	 is	 the	 time	 they	 will	 reply	 to	 your	 question	 now,	 breathe
deeply	 and	 comfortably	 I	 can	 change	 the	 rhythm	 of	 my	 breath	 yet	 all	 the	 time	 I	 was
breathing	  subconsciously	  not	  knowing	  it	  my	  breath	  being	  controlled	  by	  the	  holy
archangels	 but	 now	 I	 can	 take	 control	 and	 breathe	 willingly	 to	 the	 rhythm	 I	 want	 of
course	you'll	be	taught	this	kind	of	rhythm	according	to	the	beats	of	your	heart	so	that
you'll	get	control	control	of	what?	of	your	emotions	because	you	are	influencing	also	the
psychical	body	through	the	etheric	double	of	the	psychical	body	breathe	deeply	you	can
change	the	rhythm	of	your	breath	you	can	become	master	of	your	home	of	your	material
body	 now	 you	 can	 influence	 your	 subconsciousness	 the	 subconscious	 mind	 in	 your
personality	say	with	your	mind	I	want	perfect	health	to	be	in	this	material	body	of	mine
the	 archangels	 are	 laughing	 now	 what	 are	 we	 doing	 all	 the	 time?	 not	 to	 restore	 good
health	 in	 your	 body	 of	 course	 but	 you	 have	 to	 realize	 that	 by	 saying	 so	 you	 tell	 your
subconscious	not	to	counteract	to	the	work	of	the	archangels	you	help	them	now	breathe
deeply	 and	 say	 to	 yourself	 mentally	 I	 want	 perfect	 health	 to	 be	 in	 this	 material	 body	 of
mine	continue	breathing	deeply	and	comfortably	enough