

2-	The	Many	Mansions	of	Mind	Vitality	as	Universes,
Worlds	and	Planes
So,	 now	 I	 say,	 the	 words	 of	 existence,	 as	 far	 as	 a	 human	 being,	 using	 its	 human
intelligence,	can	know,	are	seven.	Which	are	these?	Seven	material	words	of	existence
and	words	of	substance.	Words	in	which	phenomena	of	life	are	existing	and	living.
We	know	the	cross-material	world.	For	us,	it's	only	one	third	of	the	surface	of	our	planet.
The	rest	is	water.
Very	small	indeed.	At	least	for	the	orthodox	scientists	today,	it	became	very	small.	So,
this	is	a	world	of	existence,	in	which	we	can	study	phenomena	of	life.
Billions	 and	 billions	 and	 billions,	 start	 from	 the	 Amoeba,	 the	 world,	 everything	 are	 all
phenomena	 of	 life,	 having	 a	 cross-material	 body.	 What	 do	 we	 study?	 That	 all	 these
phenomena	of	life,	obey	to	certain	rules	and	laws.	Therefore,	there	must	be	the	lawyer,
and	the	one	who	is	ruling	these	things.
And	 what	 are	 these	 rules	 of	 the	 cross-material	 world?	 Nothing	 can	 exist	 in	 the	 cross-
material	world,	unless	it	has	a	form,	and	a	cross-material	body	in	that	form.	Which	form?
Billions	and	billions	and	billions	and	billions	of	forms.	Do	we	see	billions	of	phenomena	of
life	all	around	us?	We	can	study.
In	the	mineral	kingdom,	the	crystals,	metals.	In	the	vegetable	kingdom,	in	the	animal
kingdom.	There	are	so	many,	many	things	to	study,	and	reach	to	our	conclusion	that
definitely,	behind	every	phenomenon	of	life,	is	a	super-intelligence.
Beyond	 our	 comprehension,	 which	 is	 almighty,	 keeping	 that,	 and	 any	 of	 these
phenomena	of	life,	in	the	circle	of	existence	and	possibilities.	Nothing	can	escape	from
that	circle	of	possibilities.	We	can	study	also	the	probabilities,	many	probabilities,	in	a
definite	circle	of	possibilities	for	every	existing	being.
These	 are	 the	 laws	 of	 the	 cross-material	 world.	 Now,	 what	 the	 mystics	 can	 find,	 also
beyond	this	knowledge	of	the	cross-material	world,	entering,	not	consciously,	but	self-
consciously,	in	this	cross-material	world,	they	will	find	there	the	same	law.	Phenomena	of
life,	of	life	continuing	their	life	from	the	cross-material	world	there,	or	even	phenomena
of	life	only	in	the	psychical	world.
Again,	they	must	have	a	form	to	exist.	A	form	dressed	up	with	the	substance	of	that
plane,	as	the	forms	are	material	in	the	cross-material	plane.	Now,	trying	to	trace	God
there,	more	easily.
Now,	I	had	some,	just	experience,	which	I	tell	you	later.	Now,	entering	in	the	nautical
world,	more	light,	full	of	light.	Matter	is	emanating	light.

We	are	in	the	world	of	the	light,	in	the	nautical	world.	There,	to	exist	also,	one	should
have	a	form.	Different	form	for	us	human	beings.
No.	Exactly	our	human	form,	and	each	one	with	his	characteristics.	Seeing	George	and
John	there,	you	will	understand	that	it's	there.
Even	 if	 they	 have	 a	 shell	 on	 their	 face	 or	 something,	 you	 will	 see	 it	 there.	 All	 the
characteristics	are	there.	But,	you	see	now,	that	form,	more	luminous,	more	lovely,	more
beautiful.
There	is	nothing	which	is	ugly	in	the	nautical	world.	In	the	nautical,	going	there,	there	is
a	form	there,	but	in	different	sense	is	the	form	there.	Then	you	can	see	the	soul-spirit
form,	what	we	call	a	spirit	body,	which	is	a	body	and	it	isn't	a	body	also.
Why	it	is	and	it	isn't?	Because	to	see	a	form	in	the	lower	world,	in	the	cross-material
world,	 you	 will	 find	 it	 in	 its	 course	 of	 existence	 in	 time.	 Starts	 from	 spermatozoa,
growing,	growing,	growing,	growing,	growing	until	it	becomes	an	old	man.	If	he	would
complete	the	circle	of	possibilities,	then	going	on.
So,	you	see	the	human	form	in	the	cross-material	body,	continuously	changing.	Some
total	of	everything	is	you.	You	say,	yes,	if	you	have	photos,	you	say,	how	nice	I	was	when
I	was	20	years	old.
Now,	I	am	grown	up,	with	wrinkles	on	my	face,	like	that.	Everything	is	in	your	circle	of
possibilities	and	existence.	So,	it	is	how	you	see	a	human	being	in	the	cross-material
world.
In	 the	 world	 of	 continuous	 change.	 Now,	 in	 the	 psychical	 world,	 you	 go	 there	 in	 the
psychical.	Usually,	those	who	go	in	the	psychical	world	and	you	contact	them,	you	see
them	younger.
Because	 they	 want	 to	 look	 younger.	 And	 so,	 the	 psychical	 substance	 of	 their	 form	 is
more	 under	 the	 influence	 of	 what	 they	 like	 and	 of	 their	 thoughts.	 Conducting	 self-
consciously,	people	in	the	astral	plane,	who	have	departed,	you	see	them	much	younger
and	beautiful.
And	they	prefer	a	certain	age.	And	they	can	remain	in	that	age	for	a	long,	long,	longer
time,	but	not	forever.	So,	what	we	call	the	course	in	time	of	the	circle	of	existence	there,
changes	completely,	not	in	form,	but	in	appearance.
Because	the	form	is	there,	in	all	its	course.	But	you	have	the	appearance	which	you	like.
The	same	in	the	nautical	world.
Provided	 you	 are	 permitted	 to	 have	 that.	 And	 who	 is	 not	 permitting	 us	 to	 have	 the
appearance	we	want	to	have	and	we	like?	We	are	just	in	the	way	we	are	living.	In	your

shell,	if	you	are	in	a	shell,	it's	not	easy	just	to	influence	your	appearance.
You	see	an	old	man	there,	he's	having	his	money.	You	can	enter	in	his	shell	and	see	him
in	the	age.	It's	an	old	man	just	counting	his	money.
So,	there	are	conditions	there.	Which	you	need	to	study.	And	conditions	in	life,	in	the
psychical	world,	are	not	the	same	as	the	conditions	in	life	of	our	cross-material	world.
And	 the	 difficulty	 for	 those	 who	 are	 in	 the	 cross-material	 world	 is	 to	 accommodate
themselves	with	the	new	conditions	of	life	of	the	psychical	plane.	And	they	need	training.
And	there	are	people	who	are	training	souls,	personalities,	or	going	there	to	see	things	in
a	different	way	as	they	are	and	not	in	the	way	they	used	to	see	things	on	the	cross-
material	plane.
For	example,	I	am	one	of	these	teachers	to	those	departing	from	the	material	plane.	To
go	 from	 here	 with	 cross-material	 body,	 somewhere	 you	 will	 go	 step	 by	 step,	 step	 by
step,	walking.	And	order	by	bicycle,	by	car,	by	an	aeroplane	to	move	yourself	on	a	cross-
material	world.
Now,	 are	 there	 cars,	 railways,	 and	 all	 these	 things	 in	 the	 psychical	 world?	 In	 the
psychical	world,	generally,	no.	But	in	the	shell-hells	of	people,	everything	existing	on	the
material	world	is	there.	You	can	see	entering	in	their	shell-hell	or	shell-paradise	all	these
things	which	they	carry	from	here	as	their	impression	and	their	knowledge.
But	 you	 laugh,	 that	 you	 live	 in	 your	 own	 world.	 In	 your	 world,	 it's	 what	 you	 have
understood,	what	you	have	taken	from	the	cross-material.	But	in	the	psychical	world,	it's
all	light	and	beauty.
But	who	can	see	it?	There	is	light	and	beauty	on	our	cross-material	world	certain	hours	of
the	day.	Who	is	observing	this	beauty	and	this	light	and	everything?	Living	all	the	time	in
their	 own	 thoughts	 and	 emotions	 and	 interest	 in	 life.	 So	 things	 are	 not	 changing
immediately.
But	I	am	telling	you,	the	psychical	world	is	much,	much	better	than	the	cross-material
world.	 It's	 as	 if	 going	 out	 of	 a	 dungeon	 to	 the	 open	 country.	 Now,	 things	 there	 have
longer	life.
Just	you	have	a	nice	flower,	for	how	long	that	will	last?	How	long?	Two	hours.	Days,	the
maximum.	And	then?	So,	the	law	on	the	cross-material	body,	on	the	cross-material	world
is	continuous	change	and	decay.
In	the	psychical	world?	No.	Things	have	longer,	much	longer	life.	I	had	an	experience,
which	I	am	telling	you	my	own.
I	 was	 seven	 years	 of	 age.	 Being	 self-conscious	 in	 the	 psychical	 plane	 as	 I	 was	 in	 the

cross-material	plane.	I	had	a	friend	there,	a	Dominican	monk.
He	had	showed	me	to	a	very	nice	place	in	the	psychical	world,	a	kind	of	monastery.	A
long,	long,	very	nice	hall.	He	said,	you	are	blessed	if	you	come	here	to	stay.
You	 have	 the	 right.	 Just	 a	 stained	 glass	 there,	 beautiful	 things.	 I	 have	 seen	 them	 in
Europe,	on	churches.
At	 that	 time,	 I	 didn't	 see	 any	 of	 these	 things	 on	 the	 cross-material	 body.	 A	 nice,
comfortable	bed	and	a	crucifix.	And	an	altar.
Because	 they	 know	 the	 crucifix	 there	 and	 the	 altar.	 In	 the	 altar	 was	 a	 very	 lovely
Madonna	Lilies.	Smelling.
The	 sense	 of	 smelling,	 you	 have	 it	 there	 perfectly.	 You	 don't	 have	 it	 on	 the	 material
plane.	So	nice.
I	told	him,	look	here,	can	I	have	just	one	of	these	and	put	it	on	the	altar?	I	was	seven
years	of	age.	Eight,	maybe.	Of	course,	with	his	thought,	because	everything	is	created
by	thought	there.
He	presented	me	a	nice	vase.	Emerald	color	vase.	With	water.
Why	he	did	it?	Because	this	was	the	things	I	knew	from	the	cross-material	world.	I	got
one,	they	placed	it	there.	Just	in	front	of	the	crucifix.
It	is	there	now,	fresh,	yet.	And	the	other	day	I	told	him,	well,	what	stupidity,	why	did	I
have	to	cut	it	and	put	it	there	and	not	offer	it	to	him	being	there?	He	said,	well,	that	was
what	you	wanted.	So	things	are	not	decaying	in	the	psychical	plane.
Genetical	plane.	They	endure	longer	time.	Which	means	that	the	mind	as	thought	is	not
creating	 and	 not	 sustaining	 things	 we	 like	 on	 the	 cross-material	 world	 as	 you	 can	 do
them	in	the	psychical	and	genetical	world.
But	you	have	to	live	self-consciously	there.	But	are	people	living	on	the	cross-material
world	now,	living	self-consciously?	No.	I	am	telling	you,	80%	of	people	living	all	over	the
world,	in	the	civilized	countries	and	everywhere,	they	are	not	living	self-consciously.
They	are	living,	yes,	consciously,	not	self-consciously.	They	didn't	reach,	how	do	you	say,
self-realization	to	know	what	they	are.	Know	what	they	are	as	what?	Mary,	church.
No,	that's	not	our	real	self.	That's	our	time	and	place	self	in	the	cross-material	body.	As
soul,	spirit	beings.
Because	in	reality,	our	real	self	is	not	our	appearance.	In	the	course,	in	our	course,	in
time,	around	the	circle	of	possibilities	of	a	human	being,	and	of	course	our	own	way	to

cover	 this	 circle	 of	 possibilities	 on	 the	 earth	 plane.	 What	 am	 I	 aiming	 at	 now?	 To
understand	who	you	are.
You	are	not	what	you	think	you	appear.	Who	we	are?	A	little	boy,	an	infant,	an	adult,	a
middle-aged	man,	an	old	man.	We	are	not	all	that.
All	that	is	our	course	in	what	we	call	in	our	circles	of	existence	and	possibilities.	Then
what	we	are?	What	is	really	our	appearance?	Now	try	to	understand	what	I	say	now.	In
the	noetic	world,	we	are	all	that.
To	are	able	to	be	and	feel	all	that	instinct	to	what	we	like	best.	You	are	the	circle	of	your
possibilities.	And	you	feel	a	great	joy	being	everything	of	what	you	have	existed.
Not	only	in	the	cross-material	world,	also	in	the	psychic	and	the	noetic	world.	That	is
what	we	call	perfect	life.	As	a	human	being.
You	are	human.	Form,	not	in	changing	of	appearance.	But	feeling	everything	in	you.
Everything	is	added	to	you	because	you	are	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens.	That's	why	I
said,	it	is	a	form	and	it	isn't	a	form.	The	so-called	spirit	body.
What	are	the	characteristics	of	our	spirit	body?	First	of	all,	the	spirit	body	is	incorruptible.
Everlasting.	It	does	not	die.
It	is	incorruptible.	How	can	we	create	it?	We	have	it	already	in	us,	in	all	our	bodies.	We
never	created	it.
It	existed.	It	is.	And	this	is	why	the	holy	archangels	take	it	as	sustaining	your	body.
Just	to	go	through	the	circle	of	your	possibilities.	You	say	to	me,	did	you	ever	come	in
contact	with	your	spirit?	Soul	body?	I'm	telling	you,	yes.	If	I	say	no,	I	would	be	a	liar.
What	do	you	feel	there?	Please.	You	feel	one,	at	least	with	my	most	beloved	one.	Joshua
Barnard	the	Christ.
Not	with	God.	And	with	God.	But	I	don't	want	to	leave	him.
I	don't	want	to	leave	my	human	form.	Not	body.	The	body	is	something	different.
He	had	honored	the	human	form.	It	is	in	him.	We	are	all	of	us	in	him.
Which	means,	can	you	be	in	any	body?	Considering	him	your	own	self.	Yes,	I	can.	But	it's
difficult	to	explain	what	it	is.
It's	what	he	was	feeling	as	a	human	being.	Saying,	Father,	they	are	me.	I	am	they.
How	they	are	in	the	world	of	separateness,	not	knowing	that.	And	why	you	have	forsaken

me	in	them?	Since	I	am	in	them.	There	is	just	a	mistake	in	the	gospel.
Joshua	Barnard	the	Christ,	I	heard	it	myself.	He	didn't	say,	where	there	are	two	or	three,	I
am	with	them.	He	added	something	more.
Where	there	are	two	or	three	in	my	name.	My	name	means	in	my	own	nature.	Feeling
who	I	am	in	them.
He	says,	where	there	are	two	or	three	in	my	name,	I	am	in	them	and	with	them.	I	am	in
them	as	spirit,	soul	beings.	They	are	part	of	myself.
And	I	am	with	them	also	as	human	beings	around	them.	There	are	two	different	states.
Being	in	and	with.
Which	they	confuse	them.	Everything,	those	who	translated	the	Bible.	Where	there	are
two	or	three	in	my	name,	in	my	nature.
I	am	in	them	and	with	them	as	human	beings.	That	means	entering	in	what	we	call	the
oneness.	Of	the	absolute	infinite	being.
Now,	we	said	much.	I	will	answer	to	a	question.	Marriage	between	two	people,	a	male
and	a	female	person.
If	 marriage,	 don't	 call	 it	 marriage,	 it	 is	 a	 union	 of	 two	 people,	 a	 male	 and	 a	 female.
Sacred?	Yes,	it	is.	And	binding?	That	depends.
To	 what?	 Now,	 a	 male	 and	 a	 female	 person	 on	 the	 planet	 now.	 Can	 become,	 both	 of
them,	co-creators.	With	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.
In	prolonging	life,	giving	birth	to	new	spirit,	soul.	To	exist	in	the	material	world.	It	is	the
will	of	God.
It	is	a	different	thing.	So,	what	is	the	relation	of	these	two	people?	Man	and	a	woman.	On
the	planet	and	in	the	heavens.
I	said,	it	depends.	On	the	cross-material	body,	it	is	the	sexual	intercourse.	Union.
And	the	effect	of	it	is	just	the	childbirth.	Between	the	children.	And	that's,	I	said,	the	will
of	God.
Because	they	may	do	that	and	nothing	will	come	to	it.	That	depends,	I	said,	upon	the	will
of	God.	But	in	reality,	seeing	things,	it	is	a	sacred	thing.
Giving	birth,	prolonging	the	life	from	the	other	realms	to	the	cross-material	world.	Now,
from	where	it	should	start,	this	is	the	relationship.	From	the	cross-material	world,	with
the	sexual	intercourse.

This	is	what	is	the	mistake.	Of	course,	according	to	the	law	of	God	and	to	his	mercy,	it	is
the	opportunity,	so	that	children	may	come	to	the	world,	to	be	born	into	the	world.	But,
what	family	do	they	create?	If	their	union	is	not	in	higher	planes,	in	the	realms	of	love.
So,	maybe	there	are	two	persons,	a	male	and	a	female,	for	years	and	years,	lying	on	the
same	 bed,	 and	 still	 be	 very	 far	 from	 the	 other	 for	 years.	 That	 should	 not	 be	 sexual
intercourse,	which	unites	a	man	to	a	woman.	So,	is	their	marriage	sacred	then?	Now,	we
shall	see	it	from	two	different	points.
Of	duty	and	habit,	because	why	they	are	connected,	unless	there	is	a	debt	which	one
owes	to	the	other.	Because	God	could	not	just	make	them	meet	each	other.	That	is	one
case,	and	the	other	case	is	just	to	be	according	to	the	will	of	God.
But,	I	said,	the	sexual	intercourse	is	not	joining	two	people,	a	male	and	a	female.	But,
the	soul	connection.	So,	this	cannot	last	on	the	material	plane	more	than	a	few	years.
Forever.	 No.	 So,	 it	 is	 attraction	 and	 repulsion,	 attraction	 and	 repulsion,	 attraction	 and
repulsion.
To	determine	that	there	is	the	attraction,	that	remains	one.	That	means,	the	one	enters
in	the	oneness	of	the	other.	They	can	never	enter	in	the	oneness	of	God,	unless	the	one
is	entering	the	oneness	of	his	companion.
Let	us	call	it	companion.	So,	so	that	a	family,	to	be	blessed,	to	not	only	just	the	priest,
just	reciting	things	that	binds	to	people,	but	their	hearts.	Love.
So,	what	is	uniting	two	people,	is	the	love.	On	the	higher	realms,	on	the	psychical	and
the	noetical.	Psychical	and	the	noetical.
It	is	not	the	same	thing.	No.	They	may	be	united	in	the	psychical	world,	feeling	one	loves
the	other,	be	in	union	as	two	beings,	male	and	female,	that	means	loving	each	other,	but
there	 will	 not	 be	 any	 understanding	 amongst	 them,	 between	 them,	 and	 amongst	 the
other	people.
So,	 it	 is	 not	 knowingly	 to	 be	 united	 to	 human	 beings,	 a	 man	 and	 a	 woman,	 in	 the
psychical	 plane,	 but	 also	 in	 the	 noetical	 plane.	 There	 must	 be,	 what	 we	 call,
understanding	each	other.	One	living	for	the	other,	and	especially	for	the	children.
Because	they	complete	now,	this	circle,	according	to	the	will	of	God,	of	creation.	They
become	co-creators	with	God.	So,	the	union	is	not	only	in	the	close	material	plane,	it
should	be	also	in	the	psychical	plane	and	in	the	noetical	plane.
This	is	the	marriage	which	you	find	in	the	Gospel,	proposed	by	Joshua	the	Christ,	as	a
sacred	union.	And	if	Joshua	the	Christ,	that	one	should	love	any	other	human	being,	as
himself,	would	have	been	exceptional,	with	the	fellow,	that	he	becomes	co-creator	with

God.	So,	this	should	be	studied	seriously,	the	sacredness	of	the	married	life.
But	again,	do	husband	and	wife	come	in	many	incarnations	together?	As	I	have	seen,
studying	people	around	me,	I	am	telling	you,	yes.	I	have	seen	couples	more	than	ten
times	united.	Which	is	just	making	these	two	people	united?	The	sexual	intercourse	on
the	material	plane,	or	they	have	done	it	with	many	others?	Both	of	them.
So,	 that	 does	 not	 bind.	 Then,	 which	 binds	 and	 brings	 them	 together	 in	 many,	 many
incarnations?	The	Hindus	call	it	karma,	the	debts	of	one	to	the	other.	And	God	unites	two
people,	 so	 that	 they	 will	 learn	 the	 great	 lesson	 of	 loving	 and	 understanding,	 and
cooperating.
Now,	 are	 people	 united	 in	 this	 incarnation?	 We	 are	 from	 past	 incarnations,	 in	 full
attunement	 to	 each	 other.	 This	 is	 the	 thing	 they	 have	 to	 learn.	 Quarreling,	 shouting,
living,	complaining,	living	their	life.
Either	 being	 united	 to	 learn	 their	 lesson,	 or	 if	 they	 go	 too	 far,	 it	 is	 a	 divorce	 and
separation.	One	goes	his	way,	the	other	is	going	his	other	way.	So,	this	relationship	of
human	beings,	male	and	female,	on	the	planet,	for	years	and	years,	and	centuries	and
centuries,	is	just	as	a	school	to	learn	your	lessons.
Of	 understanding,	 loving,	 uniting.	 Uniting	 is	 not	 a	 carnal	 intercourse.	 Uniting	 is	 one
entering	the	oneness	of	the	other.
Now,	do	I	approve	divorce?	Sometimes,	it	is	advisable.	If	people	go	too	far,	one	of	them
or	both	of	them	are	coming	to	a	place	of	beating	each	other,	kicking	each	other,	creating
troubles	 and	 all	 that,	 making	 their	 children	 unhappy,	 it	 is	 better	 to	 be	 separated.
Separated.
But	they	were	separated	already.	Just	living	this	kind	of	life,	they	had	never	been	really
united.	So,	what	is	uniting	two	people?	Two	things.
Loving	and	understanding.	If	you	don't	have	these	two	things,	you	don't	know	the	gross
material	 world	 is	 prostitution	 for	 me,	 even	 if	 it	 is	 by	 the	 blessing	 of	 the	 Church.	 So,
uniting	between	two	people	should	be	understanding	and	loving.
If	 one	 is	 selfish	 and	 thinks	 the	 other	 is	 just	 to	 dominate	 him,	 or	 dominate	 her,	 that
doesn't	matter.	It	is	better	that	they	should	be	separated.	So,	marriage	for	me	is	not	the
sexual	intercourse	between	two	people.
But	 marriage	 for	 me	 is	 on	 the	 psychical	 world,	 with	 their	 psychical	 bodies	 and	 in	 the
nautical.	Two	husband	and	wife	meet	in	the	other	side,	the	psychical	plane.	I	am	telling
you	a	law.
Love	is	attraction.	Indifference	and	hatred	is	repulsion.	Those	who	do	not	live	in	the	right

way	on	the	material	plane,	never	mind	that	their	husband	and	wife	will	not	meet	on	the
psychical	plane	or	the	nautical	plane.
But	those	who	love	each	other	are	united.	Now,	we	have	beloved	ones	who	have	parted
and	went	to	the	other	side.	Are	we	losing	them?	There	is	love?	No.
If	 there	 is	 not	 understanding,	 there	 is	 even	 this	 feeling	 of	 not	 being	 pleased	 with,	 it
separates	them.	So,	love	is	uniting.	Indifference,	hatred	and	quarrels	are	separating.
Not	only	on	the	material	plane,	in	the	other	planes	also.	Now,	what	is	the	lesson	of	Iman?
To	learn	to	love.	This	is	the	greatest	lesson,	which	should	be	learned.
To	love,	not	in	the	way	people	are	loving.	Because	what	Joshua	Manuel	Christ	said	to	his
disciples,	he	said,	Love	one	another	as	I	have	loved	you.	Not	as	you	think	it	is	love.
My	love	I	give	to	you.	Which	means	what?	My	love.	A	love	just	pure.
Not	egoistic,	not	dominating.	But	giving.	Whose	love?	He	gave	them,	in	the	Last	Supper,
the	greatest	examples.
Because	I	don't	believe	that	they	knew	what	he	meant	by	my	love	I	give	to	you.	Till	he
showed	them.	Come	on,	washing	their	feet.
Wiping	them	and	kissing	them,	all	of	them.	What	he	said?	If	you	love,	you	wash	the	feet
of	the	other.	Is	that	humiliation?	No,	it	is	love.
So,	which	is	the	greatest	enemy	of	a	human	being	on	the	planet,	on	earth?	The	sum	total
of	the	demon	elementals	created	in	his	personality,	in	his	subconsciousness.	Never	mind
that	 this	 personal	 egoism	 presents	 itself	 sometimes	 as	 an	 angel	 of	 light.	 Egoism	 is
always	a	demon	collective	of	all	the	elementals	of	evil	in	a	human	being.
Unless	 a	 fellow	 annihilates	 in	 his	 consciousness,	 in	 his	 subconsciousness,	 this	 group
elemental	 we	 call	 egoism,	 he	 cannot	 wake	 up	 his	 self-consciousness.	 The	 soul,	 spirit,
self.	It	is	as	simple	as	that.
Now,	what	is	the	lesson	a	human	being	has	to	learn	on	the	cross-material	plane?	First,
that	living	a	day,	every	day,	God	is	giving	us	as	human	beings	a	day	to	live.	Giving	us	a
day	 to	 live,	 God,	 in	 the	 cross-material	 world.	 The	 Holy	 Archangels	 sustaining	 that
material	body	and	the	other	bodies	to	live	in	them	ourselves.
With	what	right	we	make	the	life	of	the	other	people	miserable?	Is	that	not	devilish?	But
don't	do	illegal	or	so	in	a	miserable	way.	What	is	the	right,	our	right,	just	to	live	in	that
way,	in	a	devilish	way?	Living	in	a	body	the	Holy	Archangels	are	creating	for	me	and
sustaining	it	for	me	to	live.	What	is	the	aim	of	these	Holy	Archangels	sustaining	this	body
so	that	I	will	live	in	a	stupid	way,	hating,	not	loving?	Just	think,	the	greatest	tolerance	of
the	Archangels	to	us	and	their	patience	for	us.

So,	these	are	the	lessons	we	have	to	learn.	We	have	to	initiate	in	our	personality	and	in
our,	 what	 we	 call,	 subconsciousness,	 this	 demon,	 collective	 demon,	 we	 call	 personal
egoism.	And	of	course,	the	duty	of	every	human	being	and	of	the	seekers	of	Holy	Truth	is
by	 introspection,	 using	 the	 mind	 in	 a	 reasonable	 way,	 using	 their	 divine	 nature	 of
observation	and	studying,	see	the	reality.
The	reality	in	their	emotions,	in	their	desires,	in	their	actions,	in	generally	their	life,	as
they	 call	 it,	 their	 own	 life.	 Otherwise,	 they	 will	 live	 unhappy	 and	 in	 despair	 until	 they
learn	the	great	lesson.	And	now,	something	like	I	should	just	tell	you.
We,	as	long	as	we	live	in	our	cross-material	body,	in	our	own	way	of	living,	we	see	things
that	they	mean	nothing,	as	just	mountains	to	cross	them.	For	the	least	things	we	create
troubles,	grief	and	unhappiness	to	us	and	to	the	others	around	us.	That	means	living
without	thinking	properly.
What	a	seeker	of	the	Truth	should	do?	Never	to	value	something	beyond	its	value.	Not
undervalue	it,	not	overvalue	it.	And	how	we	understand	that	there	are	value	of	things?
Seeing	things	from	above,	in	the	course	of	time	and	of	the	events,	and	studying	our	life
as	we	have	lived	it,	see	that	things	which	really	matter	very	much	for	us,	before	a	day,
two,	a	month,	three	months,	six	months,	today	mean	nothing	to	us.
Seeing	 things	 from	 a	 different	 point	 of	 view.	 And	 yet,	 that	 time	 those	 things	 were
torturing	us.	And	we	were	torturing	others.
Thinking	it	was	something	very,	very	serious.	Now	we	see	that	that's	not	the	case.	It's
everything	different.
And	 what	 we	 shall	 do?	 See	 the	 things	 now	 that	 we	 think	 that	 they	 are	 of	 much
importance	 in	 reality,	 they	 will	 mean	 nothing	 to	 us	 in	 the	 course	 of	 time.	 After	 some
time,	in	future,	this	is	the	lesson	we	have	to	learn.	Till	we	learn	it	very	easily,	I'm	telling
you	we	need	many,	many	centuries	to	learn	this	lesson.
Really,	a	human	being	needs	centuries	to	learn	this	lesson.	I	remember	when	I	was	a
boy,	seven	years	old,	that	was	just	in	the	house,	something	that	is	dead.	Other	people,
our	people,	just	many,	many,	many	things.
It	was	in	a	corner	sitting.	I	was	looking	at	them	all	like	that.	Complaining	why	and	why.
So	many	why's,	like	devils	jumping	and	dancing,	all	those	why's	and	why	and	why	and
why.	I	was	just	looking	like	that.	My	father	came	to	me	and	said,	No,	go	to	bed,	it's	late.
We	still	have	to	talk.	He	started	laughing.	Talk,	say	what?	What	you	are	saying	now,	and
you	are	saying	the	whole	day,	father?	Yes,	yes,	you	have	just	half	to	do	what?	No,	I'm
just	sitting	here	listening	to	you.

He	said,	you	are	just	a	little	child,	go	to	bed.	You	are	seven	years	old.	Go	to	bed.
I'm	 looking	 at	 him,	 I	 said,	 father.	 I	 was	 hearing	 all	 the	 things.	 For	 days	 now	 you	 are
talking.
The	 whole	 family	 and	 the	 others	 coming,	 saying,	 all	 these	 things,	 the	 trouble	 and
disturbance.	 Father,	 nothing	 matters	 much.	 And	 most	 of	 the	 things,	 all	 these	 things,
matter	at	all.
They	went	to	bed,	said,	come	here.	Come	on,	repeat	it	to	me,	say	that.	Nothing	matters
much	in	life.
And	most	things	do	not	matter	at	all.	It's	a	waste	of	time.	He	got	a	pen,	said,	repeat	it.
And	he	wrote	in	English,	because	we	are	speaking	English	language	in	our	house.	He
wrote	it	down.	Said,	gentlemen,	please,	go	now.
No	more	talk	about	these	things.	He	said,	father,	nothing	matters	much.	And	most	things
do	not	matter	at	all.
And	he	put	it	on	a	board	with	red	letters	and	put	it	in	his	room.	Now,	this	is	the	reality.
Nothing	matters	much.
And	most	things	do	not	matter	at	all.	Especially,	idle	talk,	lazy	talk,	of	others,	concerning
us.	Nothing	matters.
Tomorrow	we	speak.	Again,	I	will	just	answer	some	of	the	questions.	How	he	must	live	a
better	life?	How	he	must	create	better	elementals?	And	how	to	give	way	to	trouble?