

2-	Understanding	Elementals
So,	what	you	will	have	in	mind,	that	a	human	being	today,	as	he	is,	wicked	or	good,	as	a
present-day	 personality,	 is	 the	 sum	 total	 of	 his	 or	 of	 her	 elementals	 which	 she	 has
created	and	is	creating	daily,	every	day.	So	what	you	must	have	in	mind,	knowing	now,
what	 is	 just	 making	 our	 present	 way	 of	 living,	 our	 life	 today	 as	 it	 is,	 is	 the	 sum	 total	 of
these	elementals	which	we	have	in	us	and	which	we	are	continuously	creating.	What	we
have	to	know,	what	is	life	and	what	we	made	life.
Life,	 even	 of	 the	 present-day	 personality,	 is	 common,	 is	 our	 divine	 self.	 We	 are	 living.
That	 we	 are	 living,	 we	 were	 living	 in	 the	 past	 and	 we'll	 be	 living	 in	 the	 future,	 it	 is	 a
reality.
Couldn't	we	remember	what	we	were	in	the	past?	Because	our	present-day	personality,
being	 concentrated	 all	 the	 time	 outwards	 and	 centered	 only	 in	 its	 interests	 of	 this
incarnation,	 has	 got	 what	 we	 call	 forgetting.	 And	 maybe	 this	 is	 the	 mercy	 of	 God	 to
forget.	Because	believing	sometimes	when	a	personality	is	very	evil	and	wicked,	it	may
lead	 that	 personality	 into	 despair,	 which	 is	 the	 grace	 of	 God,	 the	 mercy	 of	 God,	 of
forgetting.
Now,	because	you	are	forgetting,	it	doesn't	mean	you	didn't	leave.	Just	see	now,	if	I	ask
you,	 what	 did	 you	 eat	 before	 five	 days?	 Can	 you	 remember?	 No.	 You	 can	 remember
certain	events	which	really	interested	you	or	which	had	given	you	just	a	shock.
But	 due	 to	 the	 grace	 of	 God	 and	 to	 God's	 mercy,	 you	 cannot	 remember	 what	 is	 most
painful,	especially	pain.	Just	think	of	that.	You	may	have	just	such	an	event,	giving	birth,
pain,	or	having	an	operation,	or	having	an	accident.
You	may	remember	many,	many	things	concerning	that	event.	Try	to	remember	the	pain
you	had.	You	cannot.
Why?	Because	God's	mercy	is	not	leaving	you	just	to	remember	pain.	So	don't	blame	the
mercy	 of	 God	 for	 not	 remembering,	 for	 not	 just	 remembering	 past	 incarnations.	 I'm
telling	you,	when	you	make	your	personality	pure	and	good	and	advanced	and	put	it	in
the	 hands	 of	 your	 spirit	 soul	 ego,	 when	 you	 transmute	 it	 into	 your	 real	 self	 from	 the
earthly,	from	the	flesh,	from	the	common	interest,	then	you	will	remember	everything.
It	comes	back	to	you,	this	kind	of	remembering.	But	what	are	you	then?	The	present	day,
wicked	 personality,	 or	 you	 now,	 the	 transmuted	 into	 the	 pure	 spirit	 soul	 ego	 being?	 So
we	need	that	to	start	remembering.	And	that's	not	only	the	only	gain	you	have.
By	developing	your	present	day	self	into	your	spirit	ego	self	personality,	it	is	the	powers
you	are	gaining,	because	as	a	human	being	you	are	very	weak.	As	a	spirit	soul,	as	God,
you	are	most	powerful.	You	can	be	the	master	of	the	cross	matter.

When	 you	 reach	 that	 state	 of	 being,	 that	 state	 of	 development,	 you	 are	 becoming
certain.	You	are	self-conscious	now.	You	know	what	you	are	as	a	spirit	soul	ego	self,	and
as	a	present	personality?	Yes,	and	that,	but	now	you	are	in	a	higher	position	to	see	your
present	day	personality	and	laugh.
That's	what	I	was	feeling,	being	that.	Just	for	these	things	I	was	suffering,	crying,	getting
angry,	behaving	in	that	most	ridiculous	way.	Of	course	you	know	that.
And	 you	 will	 find	 out	 what	 a	 stupid	 being	 I	 was,	 being,	 not	 existing	 entity,	 not	 calling	 it
being.	 Then	 you	 find	 your	 real	 self,	 but	 are	 you	 not	 changing	 from	 day	 to	 day?	 Many
desires	who	have	disturbed	you,	many	wishes,	intentions,	leaving	them,	either	by	being
fulfilled	 or	 by	 getting	 tired	 of	 being	 tortured	 by	 them,	 going	 away.	 Every	 day	 you	 are
changing,	which	means	our	present	day	personality,	which	is	an	existence	in	the	world	of
existence,	is	under	the	law	of	continuous	change,	so	we	are	changing.
Which	means	everybody,	sooner	or	later,	no	matter	how	many	years	or	incarnations,	will
get	 back	 to	 its	 own	 nature.	 There	 are	 two	 ways.	 The	 one	 way	 is	 using	 in	 the	 right	 way
thought,	becoming	masters	of	our	bodies,	of	our	emotions	and	everything.
Or	  the	  whip	  of	  destiny,	  learning	  your	  lesson	  the	  hard	  way,	  contravening	  laws,
transgressing	 these	 transgressions	 to	 come	 into	 balance,	 will	 make	 you	 suffer.	 Whom?
Your	spirit,	soul,	ego?	No.	No.
Their	personality,	self?	Yes.	The	soul,	ego,	will	never	suffer.	Many	many	times	you	suffer
great	things,	yet	you	feel	in	you	that	it's	not	me,	as	an	ego,	suffering.
That's	 how	 you	 are	 forgetting	 pain,	 and	 any	 painful	 thing	 tends	 to	 be	 forgotten.	 Which
means	 the	 elementals,	 which	 are	 behind	 this,	 are	 dis-energized	 and	 are	 sent	 to	 the
cosmic	 consciousness	 to	 live.	 Who	 is	 dis-energizing	 the	 elementals?	 Of	 course,	 mainly
you	should	dis-energize	all	elementals	which	cause	you	pain.
There	 are	 ways.	 There	 is	 a	 reason	 to	 do	 it.	 Or,	 if	 you	 reach	 to	 that	 stage	 that	 you	 are
unable	 to	 do	 it,	 very	 seldom	 though,	 your	 guardian	 archangel	 will	 do	 it	 for	 you,	 but
expect	his	slaps	as	things	of	consciousness.
You	 will	 get	 them.	 When	 a	 fellow	 is	 doing	 too	 much,	 which	 is	 not	 good,	 you	 will	 get	 his
slaps	 of	 the	 holy	 guardian	 archangel.	 Or	 the	 other	 archangels	 are	 not	 interfering?	 To
some	way,	yes,	but	not	just	forcing	you	to	do	that	or	that,	because	these	things	you	have
to	 learn	 from	 above,	 looking	 down	 from	 the	 other	 dimensions,	 from	 the	 world	 of	 other
dimensions.
Can	 a	 human	 being	 help	 another	 human	 being?	 Yes.	 Yes,	 and	 that's	 the	 duty	 of	 those
calling	 themselves	 the	 invisible	 helpers.	 This	 is	 the	 work	 also	 of	 the	 holy	 archangels,
doing	it.

These	 beings	 are	 helping	 the	 human	 beings	 to	 regain	 themselves	 their	 rights	 in	 the
reality.	 This	 was	 the	 reason	 why	 El	 Shaddai,	 the	 Locust,	 had	 been	 humanized	 and
incarnated	 into	 a	 human	 being,	 Joshua	 Emanuel,	 the	 Christ,	 the	 Moshiach.	 So	 we	 see
that	from	another	point	of	view.
This	is	the	duty	of	everyone,	every	human	being,	to	understand	that	he	is	everyone	else
in	 the	 oneness	 of	 the	 Locust.	 And	 if	 a	 man	 is	 transgressing,	 all	 of	 us	 are	 transgressing.
You	should	never	criticize.
But	 love.	 Only	 love	 can	 just	 cure	 the	 wound	 from	 transgressions.	 Don't	 see	 the	 fellow
men	  around	  you	  transgressing,	  but	  feel	  if	  they	  are	  transgressing,	  that	  you	  are
transgressing	because	you	are	a	human	being	as	they	are.
This	 is	 what	 Joshua	 Emanuel,	 the	 Christ,	 was	 teaching	 all	 the	 time.	 Of	 course,	 he	 didn't
say,	love	your	enemies.	It	has	been	put	out	in	the	wrong	way.
He	says,	love	those	who	are	considering	themselves	your	enemies	because	they	are	you.
You	are	a	human	being.	They	are	human	beings.
All	 of	 you	 are	 in	 my	 oneness,	 just	 expressing	 even	 a	 petty	 personal	 self.	 You	 are	 in	 my
selfhood.	 And	 how	 did	 he	 come?	 To	 shorten,	 to	 get	 the	 burden	 of	 the	 transgressions	 of
the	 human	 beings,	 because	 he	 considered	 being	 human,	 the	 son	 of	 man,	 that	 all	 the
human	errors	and	transgressions	were	his.
But	 who	 understood,	 really,	 this	 meaning?	 Nobody.	 And	 if	 I	 said	 in	 one	 case,	 whatever
Joshua	 Emanuel,	 the	 Christ,	 was	 teaching,	 everybody	 was	 getting	 it	 in	 his	 own	 interest,
putting	it	in	his	own	measures	of	thinking.	They	could	never	enter	in	the	real	meaning	of
Christ.
And	  avoiding	  a	  sentence	  or	  something,	  you	  change	  completely	  the	  meaning	  of
everything.	 When	 he	 was	 on	 the	 cross,	 nailed	 on	 the	 cross,	 just	 a	 few	 minutes	 before
giving	himself	to	Allah,	to	God.	Now,	was	in	that	body,	nailed	on	the	cross.
Joshua	Emanuel	in	it?	Yes.	To	the	last	moment.	Then	he	came	out.
He	 said,	 Father,	 to	 you	 I	 commit	 my	 spirit.	 What	 did	 he	 say?	 First	 of	 all,	 the	 language
Joshua	Emanuel,	the	Christ,	was	speaking,	his	mother	language	was	Greek,	because	the
Essenes	were	Greek-speaking	Israelites.	And	Aramaic	also.
Two	languages.	We	are	talking	their	homes,	the	Essenes.	On	the	cross,	he	was	speaking
in	Greek	to	his	people,	to	his	mother,	to	his	disciples,	to	all	of	them.
But	he	was	saying	things	in	Aramaic	so	that	he	would	be	understood	by	those	who	were
there,	his	accusers,	the	rabbis	or	the	chief	priests	of	the	Jews,	of	the	Sahadrin.	What	did
he	say	in	Aramaic?	Which	means,	my	God,	my	God,	why	you	have	forsaken	me	in	them?

Since	they	are	me,	I	am	in	them.	Themselves	are	part	of	my	selfhood.
Why	you	have	forsaken	me	in	them?	Not	in	me.	And	just	a	scholar	in	Aramaic,	who	told
me	that	he	had	short	weakness	on	the	cross,	he	said,	no,	you	are	mistaken.	He	didn't.
Just	in	Aramaic,	he	said,	I	said,	no,	I	didn't	see	that.	Now	you	understand	it.	Fortunately,
the	Aramaic	language	was	such	that	a	dot	was	changing	meanings.
That	 was	 the	 language	 of	 that	 time.	 So,	 and	 he	 continued.	 What	 was	 the	 last	 sentence
he	said?	Feeling	that	they	are	in	him,	in	his	selfhood,	being	in	them.
And	 they	 had	 been	 forsaken	 in	 him	 by	 Allah	 for	 the	 time	 being.	 Father,	 forgive	 them.
They	don't	know	what	they	are	doing.
And	then,	he	came	out.	He	didn't	die.	He	came	out	of	his	material	body	to	do	other	kind
of	work	in	other	dimensions.
Because	 it	 was	 not	 only	 the	 human	 beings	 living	 in	 a	 cross	 material	 body	 like	 pigs	 in	 a
mud	 that	 he	 came	 to	 save.	 He	 had	 to	 work	 in	 the	 psychical	 plane	 for	 three	 days.	 And
very	few	know	what	was	the	work	of	Joshua	Manuel	in	the	other	dimensions,	in	the	works
of	other	dimensions.
And	he	came	back	healing	the	wounds,	the	bruises	on	his	material	body,	to	raise	up	his
material	 body,	 entering	 them	 and	 present	 himself	 in	 that	 material	 body.	 Was	 that
necessary	to	do	it?	Yes,	for	the	human	beings	it	was	necessary.	Come	and	touch	it.
Touch	me.	You	have	seen	this	body	dying	on	the	cross.	You	have	put	it	for	three	days	in
a	cave	tomb.
I	have	raised	it.	I	have	come	to	you.	Come.
That	was	his	teaching.	You	are	not	the	bodies.	You	are	not	the	human	beings.
You	 think	 you	 are.	 You	 are	 gods.	 What	 is	 the	 ministry	 of	 Joshua	 Onair,	 which	 is	 greatly
misunderstood,	to	tell	us	what	is	life,	love,	immortality,	immortality	of	our	real	self-ego,
our	spirit,	soul,	self?	Yes.
That	was	his	mission.	That	was	the	whole	mission,	isn't	it?	On	this	cross-material	plane.
Now,	you	are	called	the	seekers	or	the	researchers	of	the	truth.
What	 is	 truth?	 What	 is	 truth?	 What	 did	 he	 say?	 I	 am	 the	 way,	 the	 course	 of	 things,	 and
the	truth,	and	the	life.	So	what	is	this	system	of	the	seekers	of	the	truth	except	Christian
mysticism,	of	course,	free	from	fanaticism,	from	dogmatism,	from	narrow-mindedness?	I
said	many,	many	times	that	the	best	friend	of	a	researcher	of	the	truth	today	is	the	New
Testament,	as	it	is	even	now.	It	doesn't	matter.

There	is	in	it	the	truth.	You	can	find	it.	You	can	trace	it.
And	 I	 add	 also,	 shall	 we	 think	 that	 all	 other	 systems	 of	 the	 East	 are	 not	 good?	 For
example,	  Buddhism.	  In	  Buddhism,	  I	  find	  Christianity.	  The	  whole	  Christianity	  is	  in
Buddhism.
They	 are	 not	 different.	 When	 I	 was	 teaching	 some	 Buddhists,	 and	 somebody	 told	 me,	 I
said,	but	you	are	speaking	like	being	a	Buddhist.	I	said,	I	am	a	Buddhist.
Of	course	I	am	a	Buddhist.	He	said,	aren't	you	not	a	Christian?	Of	course	I	am	a	Christian.
A	true	and	good	Christian.
How	can	you	be	a	Buddhist	and	a	Christian?	He	said,	the	principles	in	your	believing	and
in	 Christianity	 are	 the	 same.	 So	 you	 must	 understand	 this.	 Never	 despise	 any	 other
system	before	seeing	what	it	is	in	it.
And	what	you	should	just	value	are	two	things.	Love	and	life.	And	brotherhood.
So	that	you	will	enter	in	the	oneness.	Now,	the	lesson	today,	you	got	much	information
about	our	plurality	as	a	personality.	Our,	what	we	call,	elementals.
Thought	forms.	When	you	just	unfold	your	self-consciousness	higher,	you	will	be	able	to
see	them.	To	see	the	form	of	these	elementals.
Children	 are	 seeing	 them.	 And	 they	 see	 sometimes	 what	 we	 call	 nightmares.	 I	 had	 just
an	experience.
A	 husband	 and	 a	 wife	 came	 to	 me	 one	 day	 and	 said,	 our	 little	 daughter	 is	 shrieking	 all
the	 night.	 We	 go,	 she	 is	 embracing	 us,	 kissing	 us,	 crying.	 And	 she	 is	 describing	 seeing
things	fearful.
What	 are	 they?	 I	 told	 her,	 you	 are	 wrong.	 You	 are	 mistaken	 in	 your	 way	 of	 life.	 You	 are
quarreling.
You	have	certain	differences	due	to	your	egoism.	One	will	dominate	over	the	other.	Even
you	come	to	the	point	of	slapping	each	other	and	quarreling.
But	 our	 child	 had	 never	 seen	 us	 quarreling.	 Sometimes	 when	 you	 have	 differences	 to
say,	we	send	the	child	to	their	grandmother.	She	had	never	seen	us.
She	 is	 seeing	 the	 elementals	 you	 are	 creating	 and	 they	 are	 in	 your	 home	 the	 time	 the
child	is	sleeping.	And	I	can	see	what	your	child	is	seeing	and	shrieking.	One	was	looking
at	the	other,	the	husband	and	the	wife.
What	 do	 you	 think?	 That	 both	 of	 you	 are	 beasts,	 fools.	 You	 love	 each	 other,	 yet	 you
express	yourself	in	a	satanic	way.	You	are	trying	to	dominate	over	the	other.

They	 understood.	 They	 have	 changed	 completely	 their	 character	 for	 the	 sake	 of	 the
child.	The	child	from	that	day	didn't	shriek	at	night	to	wake	up	and	shout	and	cry.
And	they	found	out	how	they	should	live	since	they	loved	each	other	in	the	proper	way,
in	the	good	way.	Now	you	know	what	elementals	can	do.	They	can	cause	even	accidents.
Believe	me.	Is	that	right?	I	am	telling	you.	Many	times	I	see	these	elementals	in	certain
places	where	just	a	crime	or	something	is	committed.
They	are	there.	People	are	passing.	Do	these	elementals	attack	everybody?	No.
When	 you	 are	 a	 good	 fellow,	 loving,	 good-hearted,	 you	 can	 pass	 and	 there	 may	 be
hundreds	of	them.	When	you	are	approaching,	they	are	going	away.	And	then	they	come
again	back	to	the	place.
If	you	have	in	yourself	the	same	vibrations,	hating	people	maybe,	these	are	elementals
of	 hatred.	 Or	 quarreling,	 doing	 something,	 they	 will	 come	 and	 attack.	 Because	 evil
attacks	evil.
Then	 you	 may	 have	 a	 car	 accident.	 So	 never	 be	 afraid	 of	 any	 of	 these	 elementals.	 You
have	a	loving	heart	and	a	pure	mind.
But	 if	 you	 are	 feeling,	 co-vibrating	 with	 these	 vibrations	 of	 wicked	 elementals,	 your
wickedness	 is	 punishing	 you.	 So	 one,	 without	 knowing	 it,	 is	 punishing	 himself.	 There	 is
not	any	punishment	from	God.
God	 is	 loving.	 There	 is	 no	 punishment	 from	 any	 archangel.	 The	 archangels	 are	 full	 of
love.
They	 are	 working,	 curing	 wounds	 in	 the	 body	 of	 a	 criminal	 and	 in	 the	 body	 of	 a	 saint.
Who	is	punishing?	You	yourself.	So,	what	is	the	shield	cutting	you	from	evil	elementals?
Either	directed	by	the	others	or	your	own	elementals.
You	 have	 to	 dis-energize	 them.	 Pure	 heart,	 loving	 heart.	 So	 I'll	 repeat	 what	 Joshua
Emanuel	said.
Love	 those	 calling	 themselves	 your	 enemies.	 Because	 they	 are	 you	 as	 human	 beings.
You	belong	to	the	human	family	with	everybody	else.
And	 hating	 the	 others,	 you	 are	 creating	 poison	 in	 your	 own	 body.	 That	 means	 leaving
elementals	of	evil	in	your	personality.	Now	we'll	make	an	exercise.
Relax	 completely	 your	 material	 body.	 But	 feel	 you	 are	 in	 your	 material	 body.	 Now,	 you
are	living	in	your	material	body.
The	holy	archangels	are	working	in	your	material	body.	Know	it.	They	feel	you.

And	also	God.	In	His	omnipresence,	God	is	in	your	body	also.	With	you.
With	 your	 personality.	 Whatever	 you	 ask	 God,	 He	 is	 ready	 to	 give	 it	 to	 you.	 Anything
material.
But	we	ask	Him	also	to	lead	us	also	while	being	in	temptation.	And	deliver	us	from	evil.
He	said	that	in	Greek	and	in	Aramaic.
And	lead	us	while	being	in	temptation.	And	deliver	us	from	evil.	And	lead	us	while	being
in	temptation.
And	lead	us	while	being	in	temptation.	Hatred,	even	if	you	think	you	have	the	right,	you
have	been	wronged,	is	poison	in	your	body.	For	your	sake,	for	the	sake	of	the	health	of
your	body,	take	out	of	your	mind.
All	negative	elementals,	anger	and	hatred,	are	deadly	poisons	to	the	material	body.	Even
complaints.	Because	at	the	root	of	the	tree	of	complaint	is	called	the	serpent	of	hatred.
It's	called	the	enlightened	one,	Lord	Buddha	said.	Some	of	you	adore	Buddha.	You	have
studied	much	of	Buddha.
If	you	like	to	be	Buddhist,	be	Buddhist.	And	be	good	Christians	also.	Because	there	is	no
difference.