

Daskalos-Jun-9-1992-A-Consciousness-and	the-Holy	Mind
Our	Father,	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done,	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions,	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	not	into	temptation,	but	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom,	and
the	power,	and	the	glory,	forever.	Absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.
Everlasting	life,	love,	and	mercy.	Manifesting	yourself	in	yourself,	as	your	total	wisdom
and	your	almightiness.	Enlighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.
Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you,	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	The	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	the	absolute	selfhood,	is	a	reality.
We	said	that	a	human	being	cannot	understand	much	about	the	nature	of	this	absolute,
infinite	 beingness,	 in	 its	 real	 nature,	 except	 very,	 very	 few	 things.	 First,	 that	 this
absolute,	 infinite	 beingness,	 the	 absolute	 selfhood,	 is	 in	 itself	 sufficiency.	 It	 needs
nothing.
Second,	that	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	the	absolute	selfhood,	has	in	it	beings
having	their	own	selfhood,	similar	to	the	absolute,	infinite	selfhood.	No	difference	in	it.
Which,	for	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	multiplicity.
As	we	explained,	multiplicity	doesn't	mean	multiplying,	but	being	in	great	numbers.
Numbers	beyond	comprehension.	So,	another	thing	a	human	intelligence	can	understand
about	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	we'll	call	it	selfhood,	which	is	the	eternal	life,	is
that	the	nature	of	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness	is	life.
It	is	the	everlasting,	eternal	life.	But	who	can	understand	God's	life,	in	reality?	We	can
just	trace	God's	life,	by	the	phenomena	of	life,	we	can	see	the	material	world.	And,
around	our	material	self.
Even	so,	studying	the	phenomena	of	life,	we	can	trace	what	life,	eternal	life,	everlasting
life,	God,	may	be.	So,	what	else	we	can	understand	as	human	beings?	That,	in	this
absolute,	infinite	selfhood,	apart	from	the	self-sufficiency,	is	also	pleasure	of	expressing
itself	in	itself.	By	so	doing,	we	can	trace	the	total	wisdom	and	the	all-mightiness	of	this
absolute,	infinite	beingness,	of	God.
So,	we	know	also	that	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God,	and	the	immortal	beings,	in
itself,	 similar	 to	 the	 absolute,	 infinite	 beingness,	 co-vibrate	 to	 this	 real	 pleasure	 of
manifestation.	And,	in	this	way,	the	mind	emanates	from	them,	and	from	the	absolute,
infinite	beingness.	Now,	what	is	the	mind?	Definitely,	the	mind	is	not	God.
It	is	the	expression,	not	the	nature,	of	God.	What	can	we	know	about	the	mind,	as	human

beings,	common	human	beings?	Very,	very	little.	Using	it	subconsciously,	not	to	say
stupidly,	most	of	the	time.
But,	we	can	know	that,	using	the	mind,	in	the	right	way,	through	the	mind,	we	can
express	and	develop	a	kind	of	self-consciousness,	in	the	various	states	of	its	expression.
But,	now,	we	should	be	very	careful.	Self	is	a	different	thing	from	the	consciousness,
which	the	self	is	expressing.
But,	not	mix	them	up.	Because,	most	people,	even	advanced	students,	in	the	esoteric
teaching,	 make	 the	 mistake	 to	 mix	 up	 this	 consciousness	 with	 the	 self.	 No!	 The
consciousness	is	expression	of	the	self	through	the	mind.
But,	what's	behind	it?	The	real	self.	The	real	self	is	God.	And,	the	mind	is	not	God.
The	self	is	divine.	The	mind	is	holy,	not	divine.	Because,	the	mind	emanates	from	the
absolute,	infinite	beingness.
And,	from	these	immortal	beings,	just	for	the	purpose	of	manifesting	the	divine	plan.	The
total	wisdom	and	the	all-mightiness.	We	should	not	make	the	mistake	to	mix	up,	as	one
thing,	the	self	with	the	self-consciousness.
Now,	very	little	can	be	said	about	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness.	Except,	that	we,	as	a
self,	we	are	similar	to	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness.	And,	similar	to	our	brethren,	the
holy	archangels.
Our	spirit-ego	is	God.	This	is	clear.	We	can	find	it	out	by	developing	our	self-super-
consciousness.
And,	the	God-man,	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ,	revealed	it	clearly.	All	other	wise	people	in
the	past	have	found	it	out.	Lord	Buddha,	the	enlightened	one,	500	years	before	the	birth
of	the	God-man,	was	a	prince,	born	in	a	palace,	married,	having	even	a	son.
But,	he	was	disturbed.	He	was	uneasy.	He	left	everything	princely	in	the	palace,	his
clothes,	his	shoes,	and	barefooted,	entered	the	jungle	to	find	God.
He	suffered	much,	developing,	what	we	call,	psychical	powers.	Such	a	way	that	no	wild
beast	could	touch	him.	No	snake	could	harm	him.
Being	alone	in	the	jungle	for	a	long	time,	meditating.	Of	course,	that	was	the	wrong	way.
Isolating	himself	from	all	the	other	human	beings.
He	suffered	a	lot.	Became	very	skinny	and	thin.	And,	he	fainted.
And,	when	he	came	back	to	senses,	he	said,	No,	that's	not	the	right	way.	Then,	he	went
approaching	the	people,	started	eating	again,	and	you	have	statues	of	Lord	Buddha	with
projected	belly.	So,	when	he	met	students,	started	disciples,	preaching	them,	he	said,	I

was	searching	for	God	everywhere.
I	found	Him.	Ananda,	his	best	disciple,	said,	Where?	In	me.	In	you.
Not	inside	me,	inside	you.	In	me.	Me	being	God.
So,	he	became	what	we	will	call	a	man-God.	And,	everybody	can	reach	that	state	of
calling	himself	a	man-God.	Not	a	God-man.
Man,	 just	 ascending	 the	 stairs	 of	 evolution,	 and	 then	 feeling	 who	 he	 is	 as	 a	 God.
Everybody	can	become	a	man-God.	Only	one	was	the	God-man,	who	directly,	as	God,
had	been	humanized,	once,	expressing	at	the	same	time,	as	a	human	being,	His	Divine
Logoic	Selfhood.
That	 was	 Emmanuel	 Joshua	 the	 Christ.	 The	 only	 one.	 Of	 course,	 there	 are	 reasons,
starting	to	investigate	and	find	the	truth	around	all	these	things.
Because,	we	can	trace	there	the	Divine	Nature	in	that	human	being.	He	was	a	perfect
God,	and	a	perfect	man.	Even	calling	himself	the	Son	of	Man.
Honoring	the	idea	of	man,	of	the	Heavenly	Man.	There	is	something	else.	When	Lord
Buddha	discovered	God	in	him,	He	was	the	first	prophet	who	said	to	Ananda,	before
passing	over,	500	years	from	today,	God	will	descend	as	a	human	being	directly.
This	is	the	teachings	of	Buddha.	He	was	the	greatest	prophet.	So,	now,	leaving	aside
what	the	wise	ones	said,	and	the	God-men	have	said,	though	I	suggest	that	the	best
friend	of	everyone	should	be	the	Gospel.
They	took	out	much	of	it.	But	there	is	still	much	remaining	there	to	guide	us	to	this	great
truth.	But,	yes,	books,	advices,	and	everything	from	the	wise	ones	is	precious.
It	can	be	a	torch	to	light	our	way	towards	the	truth.	But	we	have	to	go	the	long	way,	with
our	feet.	And	Joshua	the	Christ	said	it	clearly.
Know,	you	should	know	the	truth,	and	the	truth	will	set	you	free.	Not	the	knowledge	of
the	truth	by	others,	by	us.	That	was	clear.
Now,	having	the	teachings	of	the	others	as	guiding	torch,	we	have	to	work	ourselves	to
find	the	truth	ourselves.	And	we	can	do	that.	That	is	the	persuasion	of	Joshua	the	Christ.
He	was	instructing,	Be	ye	perfect	as	perfect	is	your	heavenly	Father.	He	didn't	say,
become.	He	said,	Be	ye.
You	are,	and	you	have	to	realize	that.	So,	how?	We	have	been	given	the	means	to	do	it.
Which	is	the	mind.
At	the	beginning,	all	human	beings,	even	animals,	are	using	the	mind.	Without	knowing

what	is	the	mind.	The	animals	use	it	as	instinct.
Directed	 by	 the	 intelligences	 behind	 the	 animal	 life,	 which	 are	 angels	 and	 the
archangels.	This	you	can	investigate	by	meditation,	observation,	and	approaching	the
truth.	It's	another	field	of	study.
But	now,	what	about	human	beings?	Human	beings,	from	the	very,	very	beginning,	after
the	first	cry	from	their	mouth,	being	born,	are	using	the	mind	just	like	the	animals,
instinctively,	trying	with	the	hand	to	catch	the	breast	of	the	mother	and	suck	milk.	So	the
human	being	has	the	instinctive	use	of	the	mind.	We	can	study	what	is	this	instinctive
use	of	the	mind.
Then,	 the	 human	 being	 develops	 what	 we	 call	 the	 subconscious	 use	 of	 the	 mind.
Because	the	mind	is	everywhere.	And	everything	is	made	by	the	mind.
And	 the	 wise,	 advanced	 people	 have	 found	 out	 that	 as	 human	 beings	 and	 human
intelligences	can	comprehend	that	the	mind	is	formless,	supersubstantial.	Having	in	it
the	principles,	the	laws,	the	causes,	which	will	reflect	in	lower	frequencies	of	the	mind	as
forms.	The	word	of	Orm.
We	call	it	substance.	And	the	lower	vibrations	of	the	mind's	substance	will	give	us	the
ethereal	substance	composing	our	so-called	psychical	bodies.	Still	lower	vibrations	of	the
mind	will	give	us	the	solid	matter.
Matter,	a	rock,	a	piece	of	stone,	a	handful	of	sand	are	mind-solid.	So,	nothing	can	exist
which	is	not	mind.	So,	this	we	can	investigate	and	find	it	out.
How?	Even	in	the	smallest	grain	of	sand,	dividing	it	into	atoms,	we	can	see	the	total
wisdom	of	the	infinite	source	and	its	all-mightiness.	We	can	see	in	splitting	an	atom	a
solar	system.	A	nucleus,	motion,	electrons,	and	all	that.
Today,	the	orthodox	science	investigated	and	found	the	truth	known	to	the	mystics
many,	many	centuries	ago.	So,	this	proves	that	everything	is	mind.	In	different	rates	or
frequencies	of	vibrations,	one	of	the	characteristics	of	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	is
motion.
And	the	characteristic	of	life	is	motion.	And	there	is	no	phenomenon	of	life	in	any	of	the
worlds	unless	it	is	under	the	law	of	motion,	growing,	developing.	That's	motion.
Another	field	of	study	for	a	seeker	of	the	truth,	what	is	motion?	And	where	shall	I	find
this	motion	or	movement?	In	the	various	heavens	and	their	expression.	Again,	by	using
the	mind	in	the	reasonable	way.	So,	what	do	we	find	at	the	end?	Everything	existing	is
made	of	the	mind	by	the	lords	and	masters	of	the	mind	as	lords	of	the	elements.
Now,	what	are	the	elements?	Very	often	we	use	the	word	elements.	The	elements	are

simply	different	vibrations	of	the	mind.	Nothing	more	than	that.
Because	we	said	everything	is	the	mind.	And	we	can	investigate	it	by	studying	the	mind
in	 its	 nature	 at	 first	 and	 later	 in	 its	 expressions	 as	 the	 elements.	 So,	 to	 Ingo	 can
approach	those	who	are	working	with	these	elements,	the	lords	of	the	elements,	our
brethren.
Where	shall	we	investigate	and	find	it?	In	our	bodies.	They	are	working,	building	up	our
bodies.	Our	material	bodies	and	the	other	bodies.
Of	course,	we	start	with	the	material	body.	But	that's	not	only	the	material	body.	We
possess	just	to	express	whom?	Ourself.
Who	is	ourself?	What's	that	self?	So,	by	concentration,	meditation,	in	the	right	way,	of
course.	So,	not	just	getting	a	stone	and	throwing	it,	and	that's	everything.	You	have	to
know	the	aim.
To	gain	your	aim.	Any	kind	of	meditation	is	not	helpful	to	guide	us	to	the	truth.	They	are
offered	by	this	many,	many,	many	kinds	of	meditations	leading	nowhere.
Calling	them	yoga.	Stupid.	Wasting	of	time.
I	have	seen	people,	even	Hindus,	coming	here.	For	years	and	years	and	years,	practicing
meditation,	calling	it	Samadhi,	Samyama.	Giving	it	names.
They	didn't	succeed	even	to	conquer	those	psychic	manipulations	we	call	anger.	We
release	provocation.	You	see	them	excited	and	getting	angry.
You	have	done	nothing	until	now.	You	didn't	find	yourself.	What	you	consider	to	be
yourself	is	not	yourself.
Many	often	I	meet	such	people.	Coming	from	this	and	from	many	parts	of	the	world.
Claiming	to	have	studied	yoga	for	20,	40	years	even.
Leading	where?	Nowhere.	Wasting	of	time.	So,	the	seeker	of	the	truth	should	have	his
aim.
And	know	where	that	road	is	leading	to.	Not	just	walking	aimlessly	and	blindly.	That
means	not	wasting	the	super	substance	of	the	mind,	but	making	good	use	of	the	mind.
Because,	believe	me,	the	mind	though	not	divine,	it's	holy.	It's	given	us	by	the	absolute
infinite	beingness.	Given	us	as	human	beings.
We	are	getting	it.	It's	everywhere	and	inside	us.	Inside	us?	Why	not	in	us?	As	human
beings,	we	don't	reflect	it.
We	are	borrowing	it	from	the	higher	intelligences	who	are	working	to	build	our	bodies.	As

a	human	being,	as	a	personality,	you	are	getting	it.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread.
That's	our	daily	bread.	It's	not	a	loaf	of	bread	because	we	would	not	apply	it	to	God.	We
would	go	to	a	grocery	and	buy	it.
That's	our	daily	bread.	Yes.	We	are	borrowing	it.
And	that	rate	of	vibrations,	we	call	it	energy.	Etheric	vitality.	And	all	that.
Not	emanating	from	us.	Human	beings.	As	a	personality.
But	when	you	raise	up	this	consciousness	to	your	self-superconsciousness,	you	find	out
that	it	emanates	from	you	also.	It	is	in	us.	Not	in	the	personality,	but	in	the	soul,	in	the
spirit	ego.
Because	we	are	similar	to	all	other	spirit	egos.	We	are	similar	to	the	fire,	to	our	source.
So,	the	mind	should	serve	us	as	the	mirrors.
Many	kinds	of	mirrors.	To	see	in	them	reflected	reality.	See	the	reflection	of	the	reality
only,	or	use	it	to	reflect	ourselves	through	those	mirrors.
So,	we	must	come	to	right	reasoning.	At	the	beginning,	by	studying	to	know	the	truth,	by
what	I	call	observation,	we	detect	the	truth.	But	later,	we	will	handle	the	mind	and	use	it.
That	 will	 be	 now	 activity.	 And	 not	 observation.	 Observation	 will	 be	 accompanying,
because	at	all	times	we	should	use	awareness	as	activity.
And	as	concentration.	So,	taking	a	human	being	now,	a	man	or	a	woman.	From	where?
Any	place	on	the	planet	you	like.
In	a	highly	civilized	country,	or	a	backward	country,	the	aboriginal.	It	doesn't	matter
where	from	you	get	that	human	being	to	examine	him.	What	you	find	out?	That	all	of
them	are	using	the	mind	subconsciously.
Even	those	calling	themselves	scientists.	They	don't	use	the	mind	self-consciously,	but
they	use	it	consciously.	We	must	distinguish	now	the	various	degrees	of	the	expression
of	the	mind.
Even	using	the	mind,	the	scientist,	subconsciously,	on	what	I	call	the	cross	matter,	they
present	us	very,	very	wonderful	things.	Televisions.	Rockets.
Hotels.	Many,	many,	many	things.	But	is	there	life	in	all	those	things?	No.
Because	they	don't	use	the	mind	in	the	matter.	Mind.	Self-consciously.
What	the	Archangels	are	doing?	They	are	using	the	mind	now.	Creating	living	things.
This	is	our	difference	from	our	holy	brothers,	the	Archangels.

So	we	are	inferior	to	the	Archangels.	No.	Man	can	get	his	inheritance	in	heaven	because
he	is	one	of	them.
But	as	a	personality,	all	through	the	centuries,	had	made	so	much	bad	use	of	the	holy
mind,	 using	 it	 subconsciously,	 that	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness	 deprived	 him	 of	 this
creating	quality	which	will	be	given	to	him.	The	first	step	of	the	seeker	of	the	truth	is	to
gain	back	what	belongs	to	him,	become	master	of	the	cross	material	world	and	body,	to
make	what	we	call	materializations	and	dematerializations	and	transmuting	even	matter.
Something	the	holy	Archangels	are	doing	every	moment	around	us.
Of	course,	approaching	the	holy	Archangels,	they	are	teaching	many,	many	things	and
they	are	willing,	loving	brothers,	who	want	to	teach	the	human	being	their	secrets.
Where	shall	we	find	this	holy	brothers	of	ours?	Inside	your	body.	They	are	working	there.
The	first	thing	you	will	find	is	that	in	your	material	body,	through	the	so-called	etheric
double,	and	in	the	other	bodies,	of	course,	but	you	have	just	to	advance	to	realize	that,
that	 at	 least	 searching	 in	 your	 material	 body,	 you	 will	 find	 out	 that	 one	 of	 those
Archangels	of	the	elements	is	working,	cooperating	with	the	other	Archangels,	with	the
Locos	and	with	the	Holy	Spirit,	all	you	can	find	in	building	up	your	material	body.	You	are
living	 in	 it,	 yet	 knowing	 very	 little	 about	 it.	 I	 had	 the	 other	 day	 a	 fellow	 who	 was
considered	to	be	educated,	not	of	course	from	the	universe.
He	said,	Oh,	I	feel	a	great	pain	in	my	heart,	sir.	Where?	Here.	I	said,	that's	not	your	heart.
It's	already	there.	He	didn't	know	what	was	his	heart	and	what	was	his	heart.	Yet,	his
heart	was	functioning	nicely	and	his	body	was	well	looked	after	by	the	Holy	Archangels
who	create	the	body	and	keep	on	keeping	it	in	good	health.
So,	these	things	could	not	escape	our	attention.	That's	what	I	say,	observation.	Being
alert	on	what	happens	around	us	and	what	we	find.
Of	course,	two	fields	of	investigation	now.	How	the	Holy	Archangels	are	using	the	mind	in
creating	living	elementals	materializing	the	elementals	presenting	in	the	world	around	us
phenomena	of	life.	We	must	study	these	things	and	how	a	human	being	now	is	using	the
Holy	Mind.
How?	We	should	be	ashamed	by	wasting	it,	making	very,	very	bad	use	of	it.	In	creating
through	it	a	kind	of	personality.	Really,	I	feel	very	sorry	to	call	it	in	most	cases	devilish.
Having	in	it	a	petty,	time	and	place	self	we	call	egoism	who	masquerades	to	present
itself	as	our	ego,	which	is	not	our	ego.	And	making	very	bad	use	of	the	mind.	In	which
way?	As	super	substance	and	as	substance.
And	 also	 going	 out	 on	 esoteric	 stuff.	 And	 even	 making	 very,	 very	 bad	 use	 of	 their
material	bodies	which	is	the	mind	again.	So	we	have	now	sincerely	to	see	clearly	what

we	are	and	who	in	reality	we	are	behind	what	we	present	we	are	as	a	personality.
Now	what	is	a	personality	of	a	man?	I	said	many	times	it	is	sum	total	of	the	elementals
we	are	composing	we	are	creating	we	are	revitalizing	subconsciously	not	consciously.
Why	and	how	subconsciously?	Being	slaves	of	illusions	around	us	which	I	might	call
desires,	emotions	weaknesses.	We	have	to	study	the	nature	of	these	expressions	of	ours
as	personalities.
So	there	is	much	work	to	do.	Here	we	want	observation	concentration	and	meditation	in
this	direction.	We	have	to	analyze	the	desires.
What	are	desires?	How	the	desires	are	born	in	us	created?	What	is	the	power	in	them?
The	force	in	them?	And	how	do	we	behave	when	these	desires	are	coming	to	us?	I	go	a
step	forward.	What	are	we	doing?	All	these	are	subconsciously.	You	never	bother	just	to
study	what	is	that	desire	around	a	material	thing	or	anything	else.
Never	bother	about	studying	it.	The	only	thing	we	feel	is	I	want	it.	I	will	have	it.
I	will	possess	it.	Just	study.	Why?	What	am	I	to	that?	What	is	that	to	me?	What	it	will	offer
me?	Study	the	aftereffects	of	its	fulfillment.
Or	the	aftereffects,	if	it	is	not	fulfilled	what	creates	in	our	petty	little	self.	We	present
ourselves	as	the	egoism.	This	I	call	self-analysis.
Many	times	you	hear	these	words	but	you	should	enter	deep	in	the	meaning	of	what
these	words	mean.	What	do	you	find?	That	all	the	time	we	are	making	very,	very	bad	use
of	 the	 mind.	 Enslaving	 the	 super	 substance	 of	 the	 mind	 to	 serve	 the	 desire	 or	 the
emotion.
Making	the	master	a	slave	of	the	mind	being	in	a	state	to	check	the	desire	and	control	it.
I	am	telling	you	90%	of	the	people	now	on	the	planet	living	in	any	part	of	the	world
calling	themselves	scientists.	Civilized.
To	the	last	aboriginal	man	are	doing	these	things.	Living	subconsciously	and	most	of
them	stupidly.	Being	slaves	of	their	desires	slaves	of	their	emotions	and	if	their	emotions
and	desires	are	not	fulfilled	then	there	is	a	reaction	in	their	so-called	subconscious	mind,
their	subconsciousness	creating	enmities	hatreds	jealousies	just	that	feeling	of	attacking
of	taking	revenge	and	what	not.
I	will	call	them	evil	say	dispositions.	So	one	has	to	concentrate	on	all	these	things	study
them	soberly	and	with	reason	to	find	out	what	they	really	are.	He	will	feel	ashamed	to
see	that	I	am	making	all	the	time	great	waste	of	this	holy	super	substance	of	the	mind	of
thought	given	me	all	this	time	I	was	creating	and	projecting	or	revitalizing	from	the
group	of	the	elementals	already	existing	elementals	making	them	part	of	my	personality
so	studying	the	personality	of	a	man	you	find	out	that	the	quality	of	the	personality	of

any	human	being	man	or	a	woman	is	the	sum	total	of	the	elementals	composited	in	it
and	its	quality	is	the	quality	of	these	elementals	so	we	will	never	find	two	human	beings
two	men	or	two	women	the	same	though	their	material	bodies	are	exactly	the	same	so
this	is	much	work	to	do	investigate	study	to	know	the	truth	about	it	if	somebody	will	put
you	to	the	question	you	are	living,	aren't	you?	of	course	I	am	living	I	am	not	living	I	am
moving,	feeling	even	thinking	and	I	doubt	if	we	are	really	thinking	I	am	living	what	is	life?
do	you	know	what	is	life?	you	know	what	are	you	as	a	phenomenon	of	life	and	what	is
behind	this	phenomenon	of	life	you	you	as	a	self-conscious	being	self-conscious	being	a
god	you	don't	know	even	what	you	are	as	a	semi-self-conscious	personality	you	have	to
study	all	these	things	and	then	what	is	the	game?	until	now	I	was	living	that	part	of	my
personality	 I	 call	 egoism	 influenced	 by	 the	 surrounding	 influencing	 the	 environment
using	the	mind	subconsciously	deceiving	me	that	it	is	myself	because	in	reality	the	inner
life	of	the	personality	is	your	self-ego	only	the	expressions	are	not	yourself	I'll	put	it	in	an
example	very	crude	though	if	I	have	an	electric	lamp	200	volts	that's	light	giving	light
everywhere	that's	you	light	if	I	cover	it	with	a	shade	many	many	colors	around	it	it	will
cast	on	the	walls	the	colors	of	the	shade	it	will	not	give	me	the	pure	light	of	the	I	put
another	shade	over	it	darker	shade	oh,	it	will	give	me	much	less	light	I	put	a	third	shade
over	it,	doesn't	give	me	any	light	yet	the	light	is	there	I	have	just	to	take	off	one	by	one
the	shades	then	I	see	the	light	coming	from	it	what	are	the	shades?	the	darkest	shade
the	material	body	that	muddy,	earthy	dusty	and	filthy	body	for	most	human	beings
though	we	can	make	it	divine	if	we	like	you	understand	what	it	is	which	is	the	second
shade	our	emotions	and	our	desires	have	to	take	it	off	and	the	third	the	misusual	making
of	the	mind	now	I	have	to	see	the	light	without	the	shade	find	yourself	now,	what	we	call
our	self,	our	real	self	in	the	present	personality	it's	a	self	terribly	distorted	what	is	God
doing	in	his	great	mercy?	dressing	us	to	make	dirty	our	clothes	cast	them	away	dressing
us	again	with	new	clothes	until	we	find	the	way	to	wash	them	and	not	make	them	so
filthy	and	so	dirty	give	another	example	you	see	your	face	in	a	three	face	mirror	in	a
material	mirror	in	the	emotional	mirror	behind	it	the	nautical	mirror	and	when	you	see	it,
you	say,	my	God	is	that	me?	terribly	distorted	like	a	monster	it's	our	behavior	in	the
material	world	happily	God	from	time	to	time	says,	that's	not	what	you	see	reflected
there	but	try	to	clean	the	mirror	just	to	see	yourself	in	it	that's	why	you	are	in	the
material,	in	the	psychological	in	the	nautical	world	but	happily	just	not	to	leave	you	in
your	illusions	he's	breaking	it	from	time	to	time	that	means	the	death	of	the	material
body	and	the	psychical	body	which	is	inevitable	most	necessary	to	free	us	from	the
illusions	now	suppose	you	see	distorted	your	face	in	this	three	fold	mirror	I	give	you	a
hammer	and	tell	you,	break	it	you	break	it,	what	you	are	losing?	nothing	because	you
are	not	the	mirror	you	are	not	the	bodies	but	you	have	to	find	it	out	because	you	make
the	mistake	to	think	that	you	are	the	material	body	and	by	losing	the	material	body
which	has	to	be	dissolved	and	decomposed	you	feel	you	are	lost	that's	a	great	mistake
that's	a	great	mistake	you	are	not	lost	even	by	casting	the	psychical	body	and	the
nautical	body	but	you	have	to	find	it	out	to	find	out	this	reality	to	come	out	from	the
illusions	you	are	given	the	mind	to	use	it	properly	to	find	out	the	way	and	the	truth	to

use	the	mind	now	how?	first	of	all,	not	using	it	subconsciously	creating	elementals	I	will
not	call	them	evil	maybe	I	will	call	them	unnecessary	I	don't	like	just	very	heavy	words
and	start	creating	something	nice	something	good	the	clay	is	good	but	in	the	hands	of	a
fellow	it	gives	you	a	distorted	stupid	statue	but	the	same	material	in	the	hands	of	a	great
sculptor	what	it	will	give	you?	a	wonderful	statue	this	is	what	you	have	to	learn	we	are
given	the	substance	the	psychical	substance	and	the	nautical	substance	you	have	just	to
create	what	we	should	create	so	slowly,	slowly	we	have	to	learn	how	to	do	things	rightly
by	using	the	mind	now	with	observation	not	to	make	great,	great	mistakes	and	creating
now	instead	of	emotion	or	desire	thought	elementals	pure	thought	elementals	which	are
more	powerful	now	and	better	building	for	us	a	palace	instead	of	building	for	us	a	prison
to	imprison	ourselves	in	it	because	from	the	same	material	stones,	earth	blocks,	water
wood,	iron	you	can	build	a	palace	or	you	can	build	a	prison	so	there	is	nothing	wrong	in
the	mind	it	is	how	you	use	it	so	I	have	given	the	mind	and	I	say	the	mind	is	not	a	handful
of	earth	which	are	maybe	two	brains	in	the	skull	that	is	nothing	it	is	a	little	battery	and
that	is	not	electricity	so	at	the	beginning	even	using	the	material	brains	through	the	five
senses	but	now	in	our	senses	and	not	stupidly	start	creating	elementals	from	time	to
time	seeing	that	their	quality	is	better	and	better	we	learn	the	nature	of	the	mind	as
emotion	and	we	learn	what	it	is	the	mind	in	itself	and	make	it	a	clear	crystal	clear	mirror
to	see	ourselves	in	it	our	self	super	consciousness	now	I	said