

Daskalos-Jun-15-1992-A-Breath-of-Life
Our	father	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	while	we	are	in	temptation	and	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom
and	the	power	and	the	glory	forever.	Absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.
Everlasting	life,	love	and	mercy.	Manifesting	yourself	in	yourself	as	your	total	wisdom
and	your	almightiness.	Enlighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.
Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	I	wish	to	welcome	the	newcomers	and	for	the	newcomers	we'll	make	a	revision.
What	is	always	is	the	absolute,	infinite	reality.	The	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.	The
characteristics	of	this	absolute	beingness	is	the	absolute	selfhood.
Self-awareness,	 super-consciously.	 The	 self-aware	 of	 whatever	 is	 taking	 place	 and
happens	in	himself	through	its	omnipresence.	Now,	characteristics	and	the	nature	of	this
absolute,	infinite	beingness,	absolute	infinite	selfhood,	is	the	self-sufficiency.
It	 is	 in	 need	 of	 nothing.	 Yet,	 one	 observes	 that,	 in	 spite	 of	 its	 self-sufficiency,	 this
absolute,	 infinite	 selfhood,	 absolute	 infinite	 reality,	 has	 in	 it	 the	 will-pleasure	 of
expressing	itself	in	itself,	creating	worlds	of	existence.	This	will-pleasure	of	the	infinite
beingness	causes	the	emanation	from	the	infinite	self	of	the	super-substance	of	the
mind.
So,	the	mind	is	not	God.	So,	in	this	super-substance	of	the	mind	is	the	divine	plan,	is	the
will-pleasure,	in	its	total	wisdom	of	the	manifestation,	the	creation	of	worlds	now	of
existence.	Now,	there	is	a	great	difference	between	beingness	and	existence.
Beingness	is	eternal,	everlasting,	never	had	a	beginning	and	will	never	have	an	end.
Existence	has	a	beginning	and	an	end.	In	the	beingness,	now,	it	is	rather	difficult	to
conceive	this	great	truth.
Now,	in	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	in	the	absolute	selfhood,	there	are	billions,
billions	 of	 numbers	 of	 beings,	 similar	 to	 the	 absolute,	 infinite	 beingness.	 Immortal,
everlasting,	eco-cells.	One	of	these,	eco-spirit	cells,	is	our	own	self	as	human	beings.
From	this	aspect	and	this	point	of	view,	we	are	gods.	Gods	in	God.	There	is	a	difference.
Drops	of	water	in	the	ocean	will	show	us	what	I	mean.	The	God	is	one.	Gods	in	it	are
billions.
Yes,	similar.	Eternal,	immortal,	everlasting.	When	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	the

absolute	selfhood,	conceives	its	desire-pleasure	to	manifest	itself,	well,	in	itself,	this
absolute,	infinite	beingness	starts	vibrating.
When?	That	was	always.	And	then,	all	the	beings,	gods,	in	the	absolute	beingness,	in	at-
one-ment,	in	oneness	with	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	co-vibrate,	expressing	its
will-pleasure	 as	 their	 own	 will-	 and	 then,	 each	 of	 these	 absolute	 beings,	 in	 it,	 get,
according	to	its	nature,	its	place	in	the	world	of	creation.	Now,	using	the	mind.
The	mind	is	everywhere	in	space.	Everywhere	in	God.	Using	the	mind,	the	total	wisdom,
and	 their	 all-mightiness,	 these	 immortal	 beings,	 forming	 now	 the	 orders	 of	 the
archangels,	start	working.
They	classify	themselves	as	the	lords	of	the	elements.	The	element	of	ether,	the	element
of	fire,	the	element	of	water,	the	element	of	air,	the	element	of	gross	matter.	Everything
is	the	mind.
So,	all	these	elements	are	nothing	else	than	different	frequencies	and	vibrations	of	the
super-substance	we	call	the	mind.	So,	when	we	say	the	mind,	we	will	not	think	that	the
mind	is	just	a	handful	of	gross	matter	in	the	skull,	what	we	call	the	brains.	These	are
means	which	the	holy	archangels	made	just	for	the	human	being	to	use	them,	to	express
itself	now	as	a	personality	and	receive	impressions	through	the	five	senses.
Of	course,	they	are	of	some	use,	but	it	is	not	everything.	The	brains	in	the	skull	are
organs	similar	with	the	hands,	the	eyes,	the	feet,	and	any	other	organ	in	the	material
body.	They	are	made	of	gross	matter.
But	the	mind,	we	shall	see	it	as	super-substance,	formless,	having	in	it	the	will-pleasure
and	the	total	wisdom	of	the	infinite	reality,	as	laws,	causes,	principles,	ideas,	all	formless
yet.	But	all	this	manifesting	the	total	wisdom	of	the	almightiness	reflect	the	forms.	Then
we	have	the	mind-substance,	the	nautical	world,	the	nautical	plane.
Now	you	see	forms.	How	many	forms?	Billions	and	billions	and	billions,	beyond	number,
forms	to	be	shared	as	phenomena	of	life,	not	only	on	the	gross	material	plane,	on	the
surface	of	the	planet,	but	in	all	the	other	heavens.	The	ethereal	world	around	the	planet,
the	so-called	psychical	world	of	the	planet	and	of	all	the	other	planets.
The	nautical	world,	the	nautical	world	is	also	a	world	of	forms,	living	forms.	So	form	is	not
only	the	characteristic	of	the	gross	matter	on	the	planet.	A	human	being	and	everything
else	having	a	gross	material	body	is	a	form	dressed	in	gross	matter,	which	sooner	or
later	it	is	casting	it	away.
But	what	about	the	form?	The	form	is	not	made	of	matter,	but	the	matter	gathering
around	it	creates	the	gross	material	form.	So	we	have	to	understand	now	what	is	a	form
and	what	is	a	form	dressed	in	matter,	dressed	in	the	substance	we	call	emotions.	And
even	in	the	more	luminous	dress	of	that	form	we	call	the	mind,	the	nautical	form.

And	then	is	the	form	finishing,	expressing	itself	the	form.	I	speak	now	about	the	human
form,	expressing	itself	the	human	form	in	the	gross	material	world,	dressing	itself	up
with	gross	matter,	by	the	phenomenon	of	the	death	of	the	material	body.	That	human,
let	us	call	it	being	now,	having	the	human	form,	is	casting	away	the	material	body,
remaining	in	its	ethereal,	in	its	psychical	form,	which	is	exactly	the	same	as	the	material
form.
If	there	would	be	just	some	characteristics	on	the	material	body	that	the	fellow	likes,	we
will	see	it	on	the	psychical	form	also.	And	when	casting	even	the	so-called	psychical
form,	or	rather	transmuting	it	to	the	nautical	qualities,	then	we	see	the	same	thing,	the
same	human	form	in	its	more	luminous	substance	now.	Then	wherefrom	is	coming	this
human	form?	Definitely	out	of	the	conception	in	the	divine	plan	of	the	absolute	infinite
beingness,	God,	through	the	heart,	we	call	the	divine	man,	the	heavenly	man.
Yes,	that's	true.	But	what	makes	certain	gods,	certain	beings	in	the	absolute	infinite
beingness,	dehumanized	and	yet	the	human	form?	Nobody	can	say.	It	is	because	we
have	what	we	call	our	spirit	form,	our	spirit	body,	which	we	always	had	it,	and	we'll
always	have	it,	that	luminous	spirit	body	in	which	our	expression	is	what	we	call	the	soul.
So	 according	 to	 our	 expressions	 as	 divine	 beings,	 we	 have	 different	 appearance,
formless,	nameless,	without	any	name,	without	any	form,	beings	divine	in	the	absolute
infinite	beingness.	But	now	following	the	pleasure	of	the	infinite	beingness,	to	express
ourselves,	to	be	humanized,	we	radiate	from	within	us	our	spirit	body,	our	spirit	human
form.	We	don't	get	it	from	anywhere.
We	are	in	it.	That's	our	nature.	And	then	around	this	form,	which	form?	That	human
form.
But	you	have	to	describe	this	human	form.	The	form	is	changing	every	hour,	every
moment.	We	start	our	life	in	the	world	of	forms	as	a	spermatozo.
Pregnancy,	baby,	child,	girl	or	boy,	growing	up,	an	adult,	growing	up	or	changing	the
form.	 But	 that's	 our	 form.	 Then	 completing	 a	 whole	 life,	 changing	 continuously	 the
human	form	and	passing	over,	casting	away	our	material	body.
We	call	that	the	circle	of	possibilities	of	the	human	existence.	So	in	the	circle	of	the
possibilities	of	a	human	being,	the	form	is	in	the	circle	of	possibilities.	And	this	circle	of
possibilities	starts	from	the	birth	in	the	gross	material	world,	continues	the	life	in	the
psychical	 world	 in	 form,	 continues	 its	 life	 in	 the	 medical	 world	 and	 back	 again,
reincarnation.
Whether	some	people	believe	it	or	not,	so	it	is.	It's	a	fact.	And	there	are	entities,	I	don't
call	 them	 now	 beings,	 human	 beings,	 yes	 entities,	 who	 do	 remember	 all	 their
incarnations	with	every	detail	if	they	wish	to	remember	and	live	again.

Can	 we	 live	 again	 our	 previous	 incarnations?	 Yes.	 If	 one	 raises	 his	 personality's
consciousness,	what	you	call	waking	consciousness,	to	the	higher	and	higher	and	higher
levels	of	what	I	call	self-consciousness,	realizing	what	is	the	self	in	the	incarnation,	what
is	the	self	behind	it,	and	raising	up	his	self-superconsciousness,	then	he	can	expand,
project	himself	beyond	time.	Then	he	understands	that	time	as	we	understand	it.
Past,	present	and	future	is	an	illusion.	We	are	living	in	the	world	of	the	eternal	now,	of
the	 eternal	 present.	 It's	 very	 difficult	 now	 to	 understand	 that	 before	 reaching	 those
levels	of	the	self-superconsciousness.
And	this	kind	of	self-superconsciousness	is	a	proof	that	we	are	gods,	all	gods	and	sons	of
the	Almighty.	All	the	great	ones	and	prophets	have	stated	that.	And	Joshua	Emmanuel
the	Christ,	the	Locust,	directly	humanized	as	a	human	being,	has	verified	it	as	the	truth.
All	you	are	gods	and	sons	of	the	Almighty.	So,	with	this	what	I	will	call	self-realization.
Now,	how?	Let	us	be	more	practical.
What	are	we	now?	Are	we	animal	men?	No.	We	are	gods,	having	just	a	material	body,
not	different	from	the	body	of	the	other	animals	around	us.	It	doesn't	mean	that	you	are
animals.
Yes,	we	have	a	relation	with	all	the	other	living	forms	all	around	us.	Ponds,	blood,	flesh.
The	life	in	every	kind	of	form	and	our	life	in	our	human	form.
But	similar	circulation	of	the	blood,	the	creation	of	many,	many	organs	in	the	form	and
so	on.	Yet,	we	are	different.	We	are	expressing	a	self.
And	 that	 selfhood	 is	 divine.	 No	 animal	 around	 us,	 no	 kind	 of	 animal	 around	 us	 is
representing	an	individual	self.	It	might	use	matter.
It	might	use	the	etheric	energy.	It	might	use	what	we	call	psychic	energy,	expressing
emotions,	the	motherhood	in	all	the	animals	around	us.	But	that's	all.
They	cannot	express	a	self.	And	this	selfhood	is	a	characteristic	of	a	god.	So,	just	to
reach	to	this	conclusion,	we	must	just	work	by	observation,	meditation,	now	using	the
mind	as	thought.
No	animal	around	us	is	using	the	mind.	Yes,	it	might	show	an	instinct.	But	the	instinct	is
not	thought.
We	have	just	to	observe	all	that	and	study	all	that	happening	all	around	us.	So,	we	must
study	now	our	time	and	place	self,	which	is	the	shadow	of	our	self	in	reality	and	not	our
self.	This	shadow	of	our	self	as	its	nature	is	also	God.
It's	using	the	mind.	And	we	make	the	mistake	to	consider	this	time	and	place	expression
of	the	self	as	our	self.	I	speak	about	the	human	egoism.

So,	we	have	seriously	now,	by	observation,	using	the	mind	in	the	right	thinking	to	start
checking	our	behavior,	our	egoist	behavior.	And	we	make	the	mistake	to	think	that	it	is
our	 behavior.	 How	 does	 to	 study	 that?	 Of	 course,	 we	 are	 given	 the	 mind,	 super
substance,	and	in	all	its	forms,	to	use	it.
But	are	we	using	it?	This	is	the	question.	We	are	living	using	the	mind	subconsciously,
not	consciously,	not	self-consciously.	So,	we	have	to	start	now	meditating,	concentrating,
observing	everything	and	trying	to	understand	it,	to	study	our	material	body.
And	then	we	find	out	that	we	are	not	a	material	body.	Perfect	as	it	is,	the	perfect	work	of
the	 archangels	 of	 the	 elements	 can	 come	 in	 contact	 with	 these	 archangels	 of	 the
elements	when	we	raise	up	our	consciousness.	Yet,	never	mind	that	it	is	perfect	and
perfectly	working,	a	true	miracle,	yet	it	is	not	our	material	body.
We	can	study	it,	use	it,	and	control	it.	Then	we	see	that	we	are	something	more	than	the
cross-material	body.	We	are	a	personality,	and	that	personality	will	make	the	mistake	to
think	that	it	is	our	self.
While	the	personality	is	the	creation	of	circumstances	in	time	and	in	a	certain	place.	We
have	to	study	all	that.	We	will	study,	we	have	to	study	our	desires,	our	emotions,	and
whatever	this	personality	of	ours	is	expressing.
We	can	do	that.	We	can	see	the	actions	and	the	reactions,	like	in	our	way	of	thinking,
and	then	that's	an	opportunity	to	catch	the	egoism	and	say,	now	I	know	I	am	not	you.	I
was	making	a	mistake,	I	was	you.
But	now	I	find	that	I	am	a	different	being	and	entity	than	you	are.	And	by	studying	our
behavior,	the	way	we	are	expressing	ourselves	and	we	are	living,	our	desires,	the	nature
of	the	desires,	our	emotions,	we	come	to	the	conclusion	that,	yes,	yes,	the	heart	of	this
egoism	of	mine	is	myself,	but	I	am	not	the	whole	of	it,	because	I	can	control	it	now.	I	can
change	my	desires,	my	emotions,	and	then	observing	better,	I	find	out	what?	That	during
that	behavior	of	my	personality,	reactions,	actions,	desires,	and	their	reactions,	when	the
desires	have	been	fulfilled,	they	were	giving	me	a	kind	of	satisfaction,	never	happiness,
a	kind	of	satisfaction	having	the	fatigue	in	them.
I	was	feeling	tired	of	it	all	the	time.	Placing	them	aside,	new	desires	coming,	satisfied	or
not	satisfied,	a	kind	of	new	desires	coming.	If	my	desires	were	not	fulfilled,	then	other
reactions	were	taking	place	in	our	personality,	which	I	call	enmity,	jealousy,	negative
thinking,	feeling	in	a	negative	way,	creating	now	what	I	call	bitterness	in	the	world	of
separateness,	making	us	feel	separate	from	other	human	beings.
Then	we	check	in	what	we	call	our	subconsciousness,	which	is	the	pulse	and	the	heart	of
our	egoism.	We	have	to	enter	boldly	in	our	personality's	subconsciousness	and	see	in	it
what	 is	 there,	 what	 we	 find.	 A	 smelly	 pool	 of	 unfulfilled	 desires	 or	 fulfilled	 desires,

causing	enmities,	hatred,	jealousy,	and	many	other	I	wouldn't	call	sane	conditions.
So	we	have	patiently	now	to	study	how	to	clean	this	dirty,	bad-smelling	pool	in	our
personality,	called	subconsciousness.	But	it's	not	the	whole	subconsciousness,	because
we	have	the	subconsciousness	in	three	parts.	The	one	part,	which	is	under	the	domain	of
our	egoist	personality,	the	sum	total	of	our	elementals	we	are	creating	or	revitalizing.
The	central	part,	which	is	holy,	which	is	the	source	of	energy,	what	I	call	esoteric	vitality,
which	is	the	sanctum	of	our	personality.	The	other	side,	which	is	holy,	spiritual,	and
egoic,	which	are	the	best	qualities,	is	what	everybody	can	find	out	by	introspection,
seeing	within,	by	observation,	and	right	thinking.	Now,	as	God	had	given	us,	the	esoteric
vitality	and	the	air,	oxygen,	to	breathe	and	live,	so	he	has	given	us	the	mind.
And	I	repeat,	the	mind	is	not	that	handful	sometimes	of	very	dirty	matter,	which	are	the
brains,	sometimes	developing	tumors.	Now	he's	giving	us	the	mind.	Give	us	this	day	our
daily	bread.
That's	our	daily	bread,	the	esoteric	vitality	and	the	mind.	And	we	are	entitled	to	it,	to	use
it.	But	are	we	using	our	mind?	We	are	using	all	the	parts	of	our	body.
Our	feet,	kicking,	playing	football,	our	hands,	playing	boxer,	doing	many	other	skillful
works,	and	other	parts	of	our	body,	except	our	mind.	We	expect	others	to	think	for	us,
which	is	wrong.	We	have	to	study	now	to	use	our	mind.
And	I	say,	no	one	has	more	right	to	the	mind	than	anybody	else.	And	I	don't	agree	that
there	is	a	fellow	who	can	think	better	than	you	can	think	about	your	problems,	than
yourself,	provided	you	want	to	do	it.	I	never	advise	people	when	they	present	their
problems	to	me,	because	I	find	that	that	is	not	right.
First	of	all,	you	make	them	stop	using	their	own	logical	mind.	What	else	I	say?	Where	am
I	in	your	place?	I	would	do	that	or	that	according	to	my	opinion.	And	the	human	nature	is
to	listen.
And	 like	 a	 monkey,	 imitate	 what	 is	 good	 or	 evil.	 When	 we	 catch	 this	 opportunity,
speaking	in	this	way,	and	let	them	now	use	their	mind,	this	is	the	way	one	can	help	the
other.	Not	by	all	the	time	making	the	other	rely	on	him.
No.	So,	everybody	has	to	use	his	mind.	Now,	we	are	not	using	our	mind.
Definitely,	every	moment,	but	in	the	wrong	way,	which	is	creating	elementals,	negative
elementals,	just	to	satisfy	petty,	unholy	sometimes,	and	unbridled	desires.	And	whatever
is	drawing	our	attention,	even	before	thinking	about	it,	every	thought,	every	desire,
everything	drawing	our	attention,	is	creating	an	elemental	from	the	mind	stuff,	in	which
part	of	our	subconsciousness?	In	that	part,	under	the	domain	of	the	egoism.	And	so,
every	thought	is	coming	through	that,	through	past	experiences	of	desires,	wishes,	and

emotions.
So,	it	is	a	vicious	circle	going	on.	We	have	to	get	three	of	it.	Now,	I	can	use	the	mind	in
the	right	way.
Why	should	I	be	frustrated	all	the	time?	When	I	see	anything	around	me,	reshape	it,	just
as	the	elementals	are	already	in	my	subconsciousness.	By	so	doing,	I	start	cleaning	the
subconsciousness	and	creating	new	circumstances	now	of	behavior,	which	lead	to	what?
Now	I	know.	Now	I	know	who	I	am.
And	I	am	not	what	I	thought	I	was	before	six	months.	Misunderstanding,	quarreling,
attacking,	fighting,	desiring,	without	controlling	the	desires.	Now	you	are	in	a	state	to
say,	yes,	now,	I	am	not	all	that.
Definitely,	the	ego	will	present	itself	and	that's	the	right	time	to	catch	it.	Now,	now	I
know	I	am	not	you,	and	you	are	not	me.	You	are	the	same,	that	I	was	you,	and	that	you
were	myself.
No,	you	are	the	sum	total	of	the	elementals.	You,	through	me,	were	creating	all	the	time
to	satisfy	your	own	desires,	which	in	reality	were	making	me,	after	being	fulfilled,	tired.
They	were	not	giving	me	any	time,	full	satisfaction.
That's	what	we'll	find	out.	Even	when	your	desires	are	fulfilled,	you	will	never	find	full
satisfaction	or	happiness.	Happiness	is	in	the	self-realization,	when	you	find	what	you
are.
And	that's	not	in	the	material	world.	Things,	though	you	can	have	that	state,	living	even
in	your	material	body.	So,	now	we	start	studying	the	nature	of	the	mind,	as	formless
super-substance,	as	substance	having	in	it	forms.
You	can	study	now	the	mind,	emotion,	desires	coming	from	impressions.	You	can	study
now	 the	 mind	 as	 ethereal,	 as	 you	 call	 it,	 etheric	 vitality,	 energy,	 light,	 everything,
animating	anything	on	the	material	plane.	You	can	do	that	by	observation,	thinking
about	it,	using	the	mind	in	the	right	way.
So,	we	see	things	now	under	the	light	of	reasoning,	to	find	who	we	are	at	the	end.	Now,
we	have	made	just	plain	everything	that	happens	to	everybody.	Now,	which	one	of	you
will	start	studying	the	conditions	of	your	life	now?	Are	they	pleasing	you?	Whom	you?
That's	another	thing	to	study.
Now,	 you	 will	 study	 the	 reactions	 created	 in	 your	 present-day	 personality	 by	 the
circumstances	around	you.	Now,	everybody	is	in	the	place,	the	divine	super-intelligence
has	placed	him	to	get	his	next	lessons.	We	are	in	a	school	and	we	have	to	get	our
lessons.

Sometimes	very	bitter,	sometimes	not	so	bitter,	but	we	have	to	get	our	lessons.	So,
how?	 By	 studying	 sincerely	 now	 to	 check	 your	 desires,	 your	 intentions	 in	 life,	 your
emotions	and	the	way	you	are	behaving	under	the	burden	of	certain	emotions.	Jealousy,
the	feeling	of	possessiveness,	the	feeling	of	dominating,	the	feeling	of	deceiving,	of
lying.
Now,	sincerely,	you	have	to	put	them	down	yourself.	That	means	introspection,	checking
within.	So,	every	honest	individual	now	has	to	study	his	individuality	and	his	personality
to	find	out	the	truth.
Check	desires,	emotions.	Now,	all	desires	are	revealed.	I	had	this	question	many	times
from	members	of	our	disciples.
Of	course	not!	And	you	are	allowed	to	create	elementals	by	thinking	about	them	and
Christ,	your	shamanic	Christ,	God	on	earth,	said,	ask	and	it	will	be	given	to	you.	Seek
and	you	will	find.	Knock	and	it	will	be	opened	to	you.
That's	nothing	wrong	in	having	in	ourselves	that	impulse	we	call	desire,	but	we	have	to
check	it.	Is	this	desire	necessary	to	be	fulfilled	now?	Do	I	really	need	that?	And	so	we
have	to	classify	now	what	is	created	in	us	and	find	out	that	unholy	and	unbridled	desires
are	coming	claiming.	And	by	claiming	it	is	behind	them	the	personal	egoism,	making
itself	and	ourselves	suffering.
No,	no,	no,	no.	Now	I	will	decide,	not	you.	This	is	another	face	of	the	egoism.
You	can	touch	him	and	check	him.	Say	now,	I	must	study	what	is	this	nature,	the	nature
of	desire,	necessity.	You	are	given	everything	in	abundance.
And	Christ,	the	Logos,	Joshua	said,	who	is	the	one	who	will	ask	his	Father	to	give	him
something	to	eat?	Instead	of	giving	him	fish,	he	will	give	him	a	snake	or	a	stone.	And	if
you,	human	beings,	not	being	so	holy,	you	know	how	to	give	to	your	children	good
things.	Is	your	heavenly	Father	not	going	to	give	you	what	is	good	for	you?	Good	for	us,
not	as	we	think	it	is	good	for	us.
Nobody	is	putting	razor	blades	in	the	hands	of	children.	So	our	heavenly	Father,	what	is
this	heavenly	Father?	God,	is	he	seeing	us?	Is	he	hearing	us?	Can	he	hear	our	prayers?
He	can	know	every	thought.	It	is	stupid	to	believe	that	the	one	who	created	even	your
material	brains	to	think	with	them,	he	created	them.
He	is	not	thinking.	He	is	not	understanding	you.	And	he	who	created	your	eyes	so	that
you	will	see	with	them,	is	not	seeing.
And	the	one	who	created	your	ears	so	that	you	will	hear,	is	not	hearing	everything	and
you.	Because	he	is	omnipresent	everywhere	and	in	you.	So	you	have	to	realize	that.

You	can	investigate	that	and	find	out	the	truth	by	introspection.	After	all,	this	is	the
whole	teaching	of	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	when	he	came	to	the	world.	That	was	his
teaching.
So,	 checking	 now	 our	 behavior,	 our	 emotions,	 our	 desires,	 everything	 around	 us.
Checking	now	the	aftereffects	of	these	desires,	whether	being	fulfilled	or	not.	We	must
reach	to	conclusions.
Then	we	study	and	know	the	nature	of	the	elementals.	Every	elemental	has	a	form.
Either	we	give	it	by	our	desires,	as	a	ritual,	something	else.
Or	when	we	think	about	something,	it	gets	a	form	according	to	its	nature.	Sometimes
very	repulsive	forms.	Children,	Julia	and	I,	can	see	these	elementals.
These	hideous	forms	created	by	the	quarrels	of	his	parents.	They	shriek	sometimes.	I
had	before	some	days,	a	couple	who	came	to	me,	claiming	that	they	love	each	other,
quarreling	all	the	time,	being	jealous,	even	beating	sometimes	the	husband,	the	wife,
and	breaking	dishes,	doing	so	many	nonsense.
Coming	most	miserable,	saying,	our	little	daughter,	during	the	night,	she's	shrieking,
waking	up,	trembling.	What	is	the	reason,	sir?	What	can	we	do	for	her?	Of	course,	I	could
guess	from	their	thought,	the	whole	condition.	I	said,	well,	take	the	child	away	and	I'll
speak	to	her.
Of	course,	they	have	got	the	mother-in-law	who	took	the	child	and	said,	change	your
behavior.	Stop	being	stupid.	Stop	fighting.
Stop	doing	all	this	nonsense.	He	said,	but	the	child	never	heard	us.	The	child	said,	well,
yes,	he	didn't	hear	you	with	her	ears,	but	she	knows	everything	by	the	elementals	you
are	creating.
She	can	see	them.	She	can	feel	them.	Unless	you	change,	maybe	you	are	losing	your
child.
They	are	looking	at	each	other.	I	said,	stop	quarreling.	Either	separate	if	you	cannot	live
together,	or	stop	this	stupid	behavior.
And	I	explained	to	them	what	are	elementals	and	what	they	were	creating	or	revitalizing
subconsciously,	what	was	in	their	subconsciousness,	torturing	them.	Of	course,	these
people	became	members	of	our	circle.	They	are	living	a	very,	very	peaceful	and	good	life
now.
And	the	child	is	not	seeing	evil	elementals,	but	elementals	shrieking	and	shouting	all	the
night.	So,	if	you	could	see	elementals	of	hatred,	of	envy,	and	of	negative	feelings	in	you,
you'll	be	frightened.	But,	you	should	not	come	to	despair.

Start	working.	By	understanding,	studying	the	matter,	start	creating	now	positive	and
good	elementals.	Dis-energize	evil	or	bad	elementals,	just	for	two	reasons.
The	first	reason,	these	elementals	in	the	bodies	of	people	are	very	bad	poisons,	creating
many,	many	illnesses,	even	insanity.