

Daskalos-Mar-17-1992-B-Watch-and-Pray
Now,	we	are	repeating	it.	Everything	you	see,	even	before	thinking	about	it,	or	feeling
anything,	creates	an	elemental.	That's	clear.
But	when	you	see	something,	what	is	the	reaction	in	your	personality	with	the	already
existing	innate	elementals?	Because	don't	think	they	are	sleeping	in	your	aura.	They	are
most	 active.	 And	 being	 active,	 they	 make	 you,	 your	 present	 day	 personality,	 knowing
things.
So	they	give	you	a	kind	of	knowledge.	So	seeing	something,	being	aware	of	the	presence
of	that	something,	immediately	in	your	psychical	body,	starts	the	influence	of	it.	They
come	forward	without	you	knowing	it.
All	kinds	of	elementals	related	to	that	thing	through	your	attention.	Then	you'll	have	in
yourself	 that	 greater	 impulse	 which	 creates	 the	 elementals.	 We	 call	 that	 desire	 of
having.
So	this	is	something	one	should,	through	introspection,	study.	So	this	new	elemental	has
many,	many	other	elementals	of	each	kind,	or	similar	to	each	kind,	ready	to	embrace	it
once	it's	created,	coming	in,	that	fellow,	and	give	it	part	of	their	power	and	strength.	You
say,	that	is	only	for	the	bad	elementals.
No,	it's	for	the	good	elementals	also.	When	a	fellow,	a	benevolent	fellow,	is	under	the
influence	 of	 just	 charitable	 elementals	 in	 himself,	 this	 is	 just	 a	 case	 that	 somebody	 is
helping	 and	 he	 can	 help	 more,	 he	 will	 come	 forward	 to	 help.	 So	 those	 elementals	 of
charity	or	of	goodness,	a	fellow	seeing,	are	strengthening	also	those	elementals	in	the
personality	of	a	fellow	having	in	himself	such	elementals.
And	then	you	see	that	good	is	strengthening	good.	And	evil	strengthens	evil.	Sometimes
yes,	but	sometimes	no.
Because	evil	fights	evil.	How?	You	see	somebody	having	something.	You	want	to	have	it.
It's	not	easy	to	have	it.	You	have	that	other	desire.	Then	immediately	you	enslave	the
mind	to	find	ways	to	serve	that	desire.
There	 will	 appear	 many,	 many	 elementals	 in	 your	 subconsciousness	 ready	 to	 suggest
what	to	do.	Still,	you	have	the	opportunity.	The	other,	oh,	this	has	much	money.
Who	will	see?	You	kick	him	and	get	the	money	and	you	get	what	you	like.	It	is	something
precious	and	a	very	big	thing	to	have	it.	The	other	elemental	will	come	forward	and	say,
no,	you	can't	work.
With	a	second	work,	and	you	can	get	the	money	and	buy	it.	So	it	means	that	already

existing	elementals	in	the	personality,	when	an	elemental	is	created,	will	come	forward
to	give	that	suggestion	and	try	to	influence	you	as	the	present	day	personality.	And	you
said	our	present	day	personality,	our	petty	time	and	place	self,	is	the	sum	total	of	these
elementals.
Good	or	bad.	Again,	I	don't	want	to	use	the	word	evil.	So	in	introspection,	you	have	to
concentrate	and	use	that	great,	great	art	of	observation.
Be	on	the	alert	to	understand	things	as	they	are.	That	means	using	the	mind	now	in	a
higher	 rate	 of	 vibrations,	 which	 is	 observation.	 This	 word	 is	 not	 used	 by	 the	 Eastern
people	because	most	of	them	do	not	know	it.
Only	Jesus	Christ,	the	God-man,	brought	it	to	our	knowledge.	Observation.	How?	Be	on
the	alert,	watch	and	pray	so	that	we'll	not	enter	into	temptation.
Watch	and	pray.	So	we	have	just	to	note	all	these	expressions.	So,	now	what	we	should
do?	First	of	all,	sitting	quietly,	peacefully,	getting	rid	of,	getting	rid	of	certain	elementals
which	like	in	yourself	to	misguide	you,	which	are	masochistic	tendencies.
Don't	 accuse	 yourself	 even	 as	 the	 present	 day	 personality.	 What	 you	 have	 to	 learn	 is
think	how	they	are	and	make	connections.	Have	that	in	your	mind.
Because	it	is	wasting	of	time	accusing	yourself.	Oh,	I'm	a	bad	person.	Why	have	I	done
that?	I	should	have	done	that	and	that	and	that.
No,	that's	not	time.	Shade	what	is	evil.	But	they	are	not	evil	persons.
They	are	misguided	persons.	So	you	will	have	that	in	your	mind	and	for	yourself.	Don't
start	accusing	your	present	day	personality.
Study	and	make	corrections.	This	is	what	you	really	need.	Now,	study	your	present	day
personality.
Sit	quietly	and	study	your	nature,	the	lower	nature.	And	you	know	that	these	things,	the
impulses,	I	don't	know	if	it's	another	word	using,	which	are	not	ourselves,	we	think	they
are	and	come	to	decisions.	I'll	never	be	in	a	hurry	to	obey	elementals	already	existing	in
me,	have	been	strengthened	during	the	past,	augmenting	other	elementals	which	are
coming	to	me,	drawing	my	attention	and	creating	this	or	that	desire.
The	 first	 thing.	 Second,	 get	 the	 help	 of	 already	 existing	 reasonable	 elementals	 in
yourself.	They	will	come	to	help	you.
Because	I'm	telling	you,	the	already	existing	elementals	are	quite	awakened	and	ready
to	assist	you	and	help	you.	Now,	suppose	that	desire	which	I	have	now	is	created	now
and	other	elementals	going	to	strengthen	it,	will	be	fulfilled.	First	of	all,	I'll	see	by	which
cost,	what	troubles	I	have	to	undergo	in	fulfilling	that	desire.

That	desire	to	be	fulfilled,	the	fulfillment	of	that	desire,	worth	your	all	that	trouble.	That
means	a	reasoning.	And	what	that	fulfillment	of	that	desire	will	offer	me?	Then,	see	back
in	time.
Didn't	I	have	just	this	desire	about	many,	many,	many	things	in	the	past?	Now,	have	all
those	desires,	certain	desires,	been	fulfilled?	Some	of	them	or	most	of	them,	yes.	Some
of	them,	no.	Now	I'll	try	to	detect	their	influence	on	themselves.
If	they	had	been	fulfilled,	what	did	they	offer	me?	Now,	they	have	lost	completely	their
color.	Now,	I	have	fulfilled	that	desire.	Another	one	comes	forward	and	another	one	and
another	one.
And	in	the	course	of	time,	we'll	see	that	the	color	of	the	ardent	desires	is	fading	away.
You	said,	but	then	it	was	so	important	to	me.	What	is	it	now?	So	come	to	reason.
Now,	if	I	study	now	a	desire	which	had	not	been	fulfilled,	what	it	created	in	your	present
personality	now?	As	a	reaction	to	it,	then	a	devil	appears,	which	is	your	egoist,	which
should	 not	 be	 followed	 and	 obeyed.	 It	 will	 increase,	 increase	 what	 we	 call	 obstinacy.
Why?	 And	 believe	 me,	 there	 are	 some	 wives	 who	 are	 very	 dangerous	 devils	 in	 your
personality.
You	have	to	punish	them.	Why?	And	if	somebody	has	succeeded,	then	what	happens?
You	feel	jealous.	Why?	That	fellow	has	it	and	I	didn't	succeed	having	it.
And	again,	who	were	the	cause	that	my	desire	had	not	been	fulfilled?	Maybe	sometimes
people	who	love	you,	then	you	start	hating.	This	is	the	most	dangerous	point.	Despising,
avoiding,	hating,	and	then	it	goes	further.
Even	 thinking	 to	 find	 ways	 to	 take	 revenge.	 These	 are	 devilish	 tendencies,	 which	 are
creating	you	weaknesses.	This	is	what	I	call	weaknesses.
Malice,	enmity,	jealousy,	many	other	states	are	weaknesses.	And	these	weaknesses,	as	I
said	yesterday,	are	very	dangerous	poisons	for	your	material	body.	So	immediately,	you
hard-pour	these	things	in	yourself,	you	are	punishing	yourself.
So	there	is	the	self-punishment	of	egoism,	because	it	is	the	egoism	which	comes	forward
to	make	all	those	suggestions	to	your	present-day	personality.	Now	you	understand	how
valuable	 is	 what	 I	 call	 meditation,	 introspection,	 checking,	 and	 self-analysis.	 Self-
analysis,	I	mean	the	present-day	personality.
So,	one	should	boldly,	in	introspection,	enter	in	his	or	her	subconsciousness.	You	can	do
that	every	evening	before	going	to	bed	or	in	bed.	It	is	a	good	time.
That	doesn't	mean	that	we	shouldn't	work	on	it	in	introspection	at	any	other	time.	You
have	time	to	do	it.	So	withdraw	in	a	room	alone.

See	that	you'll	not	be	disturbed.	And	the	first	thing	you	have	to	do	is	to	slow	down	the
way	you	are	thinking.	This	is	most	precious.
Slow	down	the	way	you	are	thinking.	No	need	to	rush,	because	you'll	see	that	we	rush
too	much	in	the	way	you	are	thinking,	especially	about	things	we	want	to	have.	So	slow
down	the	way	you	are	thinking	and	start	thinking	slowly	and	in	the	right	way.
I	am	under	the	desire	of	this	thing.	Put	it	down	in	writing.	End	of	this	thing.
End	of	this	thing.	Then	take	one	by	one	in	another	meditation	time.	But	have	in	your
mind	that	there	have	been	traced	many,	many,	many,	many	things	in	you.
Now	I	shall	analyze	them	and	see,	are	these	desires	worthy	of	engaging	my	attention
and	taking	my	time	and	drawing	and	drawing	my	energies?	What	they	will	give	me?	Just
some	hours	satisfaction	and	many,	many	hours	maybe	of	bitterness.	You	have	to	study
all	 the	 circumstances	 and	 see,	 do	 I	 hate	 anybody?	 Do	 I	 have	 complaints	 against
anybody?	Why?	Find	the	reason.	Find	the	cause.
So	you	start	understanding	the	present	situation	you	are	living	in.	And	what	will	be	the
gain?	Making	corrections,	you	avoid	future	troubles,	unnecessary	pain,	agony.	This	is	the
one	thing	you	are	gaining.
The	second,	you	find	who	am	I	now?	Slowly,	slowly	becoming	the	master	of	the	situation
and	being	able	to	control	my	emotions,	control	my	thoughts.	That	means	I	am	not	the
emotions	 and	 the	 thoughts.	 What	 am	 I	 then?	 The	 master	 of	 all	 that,	 master	 of	 the
material	body,	master	of	my	emotions	and	master	of	my	thoughts.
And	 I'm	 telling	 you	 another	 gain	 you	 have	 to	 gain.	 You	 start	 entering	 to	 certain
necessity,	desires,	things	giving	pleasure	instead	of	calling	things	desire.	Creating	now
elementals,	not	so	many.
These	 elementals	 are	 most	 powerful	 now	 because	 you	 have	 them	 under	 your	 control.
They	have	in	these	elementals	more	the	thought	than	the	emotion,	the	emotion	being
and	the	desire	being	under	the	control	of	reasoning	and	of	thought.	And	of	course	what
you	desire,	in	this	way	let	us	call	it	desire	even,	is	fulfilled	immediately.
So	you	know	the	way	now.	How?	What	you	want	to	have,	to	have	it	sooner.	Getting	less
elementals	and	more	powerful	elementals.
Now,	knowing	now	how	elementals	are	created	and	how	elementals	are	working	for	you,
but	sometimes	for	your	distraction	maybe.	You	can	now	clean	that	storehouse	of	your
subconsciousness.	You	have	all	those	elementals	we	call,	but	piled	up.
Then	 your	 life	 becomes	 more	 reasonable,	 giving	 you	 more	 satisfaction	 now.	 Because
being	a	master	you	feel	more	satisfied	than	being	a	slave	enjoying	nothing.	Now	I'll	give

you	an	example	that	you	must	avoid	after	knowing	this	thing	how	to	do	it,	to	get	rid	of
the	influence	of	just	accomplishing	only	desire	without	reasoning.
I	had	a	very	poor	friend	sometime.	Really	I	loved	very	much	that	fellow	and	he	loved	me
very	much.	He	was	very,	very,	very	clever,	but	very,	very	poor.
Of	 course	 we	 were	 sitting	 on	 the	 same	 bench	 at	 school	 and	 there	 was	 a	 great	 love
between	us.	When	we	finished	the	school,	I	went	to	another	school,	he	took	me	to	the
separate	gymnasium	and	then	we	finished	school.	He	came	out	and	told	me,	look	here,	I
want	you	to	ask	your	father	to	take	me	to	your,	to	the	office,	because	we're	studying.
I'm	living	with	my	mother.	My	mother	was	washing	clothes	so	that	to	bring	me	up	and
live	was	very,	very,	very	poor.	And	I	said,	all	right.
I	 brought	 him	 to	 that	 office.	 All	 the	 time	 others	 around	 us	 thought	 he	 was	 absent-
minded.	No,	I	knew	what	was	happening	in	him.
Almost	 concentrating	 in	 this	 why	 am	 I	 poor?	 Why	 am	 I	 studying?	 Why	 in	 this	 quarter
there	are	very,	very	rich	people?	Why	boys	in	my	age	had	everything?	He	told	me	one
day,	can	I	attend	your	lessons?	I	said,	why	not?	He	came.	That	time	I	think	I	was	17	and
he	was	18.	He	attended	a	lesson	on	the	elementals,	which	I	gave	in	Greek.
Then	after	finishing	the	lesson,	he	came	and	told	me,	thank	you,	I	got	the	key.	I	said,
what	does	he	mean?	I	know	how	to	get	everything	I	want.	I	said,	really?	But	are	you	sure
what	you	think	you	want	is	what	you	should	have?	He	said,	definitely.
I	said,	all	right.	Never	mind.	Well,	after	some	days,	he	came	and	told	me,	look	here.
Of	course,	I	can't	say	he	was	not	thinking	in	a	reasonable	way.	I	cannot	leave	and	pay
rent	just	for	a	room.	My	mother	now	passed	over	and	myself	just	being	dirty	like	that.
What	do	I	want?	I	said,	just	a	house	with	three	little	rooms	and	just	to	wash	myself.	What
are	you	doing	for	that?	Visualizing	it.	That	here	is	the	key.
You	are	right.	He	got	the	lesson	of	visualization.	That	means	creating	elementals	self-
consciously.
He	came	after	some	months	and	told	me,	look	here,	will	you	come	to	my	house	to	have
a	coffee	with	me?	To	your	house?	I	said,	yes.	All	right.	We	went	this	Sunday	to	his	house.
He	had	exactly	something	he	had	created	in	his	mind.	How?	He	created	his	needs,	going
with	his	bicycle	all	around.	He	saw	his	house,	similar	to	what	he	dreamt.
After,	he	said,	on	sale.	He	went	there,	found	the	fellow.	He	got	a	second	job	and	he	could
just	get	the	house	and	pay	monthly	until	that	house	would	become	his	house.

I	 said,	 yes,	 you	 are	 right.	 He	 left	 the	 office	 for	 a	 better	 work,	 better	 job.	 He	 engaged
himself	with	many,	many	other	works.
Of	course,	I	was	meeting	him	from	time	to	time	when	I	could.	He	told	me,	will	you	come
just	to	have	lunch	with	me	someday	to	my	house?	I	said,	yes,	I	know	it.	He	said,	no,	that
isn't	that	house.
I	sold	that	house.	My	house	is	maybe	better	than	your	house	today.	He	said,	what	is	it?
Yes.
Well,	I	went.	He	had	a	friend	helping	him	also,	sharing	the	house,	paying	service	to	him.
Everything	he	had	desired,	he	had	them.
He	says,	no,	look	here,	I'm	using	my	mind	and	I	know	how	to	get	mine.	But	he	said,	look
here,	honestly.	First	of	all,	I	said,	yes,	because	did	you	start	doing	stupid	things?	No,	with
my	work	and	my	sweat,	because	I	remember	what	you	told	me.
I	said,	brother,	what	was	the	problem?	What	a	man	is	gaining	with	the	sweat,	half	of	it	is
taken	away	by	the	devil.	If	somebody	is	getting	things	in	not	the	proper	ways,	the	devil
takes	everything	away	in	himself	also.	And	he	had	it	in	his	mind	and	he	said,	I	was	afraid
of	what	you	said.
That's	very	good.	That	was	a	good	thing	for	him,	to	reason.	Years	have	gone.
He	got	married	to	a	very	beautiful,	rich	also	lady.	He	made	houses.	He	has	built	a	very,
very	big	construction	of	six	stories,	many,	many	flats.
Now	he's	in	Limassol.	I	met	him.	Very,	very	rich.
Has	two	or	three	companies.	I	met	him	sometime	before	four	years.	He	had	shown	me
two	of	those,	which	were	mine.
I	said,	he	said,	why	you	are	doing	that?	They	will	never	be	yours.	You	are	under	the	false
idea	that	they	are	yours.	No,	I'm	good.
There	are	some	people	who	cannot	pay	and	I	keep	them	there	without	paying	anything.
But	also	that,	yes,	but	don't	call	them	yours	because	they	will	never	be	yours.	What	is	it
after	all?	Stones.
He	said,	no,	no,	no,	no,	I'm	rich.	He	had	a	very	luxurious	car.	He	made	me	around.
I	said,	don't	you	think	a	cheaper	car	will	do	the	same	work?	He	said,	don't	you	think	I
brought	you	here	all	the	time	just	to	tell	you	that	I'm	a	fool?	I	didn't	say	that.	But	you	are
saying	that	in	your	way.	If	you	think	it	is	so,	well,	we	went	to	his	house	and	he	made
quarrel	with	his	wife.

Why	 she	 paid	 double	 the	 value	 for	 the	 shoes	 of	 his	 son?	 Why	 she	 could	 get	 it	 much
cheaper?	I	thought,	I'm	not	a	fool.	He	said,	what	do	you	want	me	to	do?	What	did	you	go
with	your	wife	or	your	children?	I	brought.	Oh,	much	money	I	needed	for	that.
What	you	are	going	to	do	with	the	money	you	have	so	much	money?	Do	you	know	how
much	you	have?	Not	exactly.	Then	go	and	enjoy	life.	He	said,	what?	Enjoy	life.
Oh,	I	am	too	busy	now.	I	don't	have	time	just	to	enjoy	life.	What	do	you	mean	enjoy	life?
He	said,	you	miserable	fool.
He	said,	no,	in	my	mind	I	have	something	else.	I	want	to	become	a	partner	in	a	ship.	I
started	to	become	a	partner	in	a	ship.
He	said,	you	know	how	old	you	are?	I	said,	no,	stop	it.	Stop	it?	You	are	a	year	older	than	I
am.	At	that	time	I	was	about	70.
He	said,	don't	remind	me	of	that.	How	you	carry	all	these	with	you	when	you	pass	away?
He	says,	I	didn't	bring	you	here	just	to	torture	me.	I	said,	why	torture?	When	he	steps,
he's	burying	somebody,	he's	the	most	miserable.
I	told	him,	was	it	not	better	to	continue	with	the	lesson	to	improve	yourself?	Instead	of
getting	that,	I	said,	go	and	carry	as	you	see.	Then	I	gave	him	just	something	where	he's
going	to	put	it.	I	said,	you	are	a	stupid.
What	 do	 I	 want	 to	 say?	 Which	 is	 the	 greatest	 devil?	 Ungratefulness	 to	 God	 and
dissatisfaction	in	life.	One	who	should	be	satisfied	with	the	little	and	the	more	and	more
and	more.	But	one	should	be	grateful	to	God	for	what	God	is	giving	and	enjoy	life.
Enjoy	life	not	in	a	stupid	way.	Feeling	I	am	living.	Feeling	quiet.
I	have	done	my	duty	to	life.	I	have	created	a	family	and	I'm	a	good	father,	husband	and
citizen	in	this	society.	Little	or	more,	it	doesn't	matter.
You	can	help	and	feel	satisfied	that	it	is	not	the	quantity,	it	is	the	heart	disposition	that
counts.	You	must	have	in	your	mind.	I	have	a	friend	the	other	day.
He's	a	doctor.	He	was	coming	to	our	lessons	and	when	I	said	that	people	should	help	by
all	their	means,	material,	psychical,	advices,	knowledge	and	everything,	he	came	to	me
and	he	says,	yes,	can	I	be	a	member	of	your	system	and	also	to	other	systems?	I	said,
why	 not?	 He	 said,	 yes,	 but	 pay	 a	 pupil	 of	 the	 system	 now	 in	 Nicosia.	 I	 don't	 want	 to
mention	the	name	of	that	stupid	thing.
He	says,	they	told	us	we	cannot	help	and	we	should	not	engage	ourselves	with	helping
people	unless	you	are	strong	enough	and	in	a	state	to	help.	I	said,	did	they	tell	you	that?
Yes.	And	how	I	shall	help?	I	said,	look	here,	is	it	necessary	for	you	to	become	a	banker
just	 to	 create	 charity	 to	 certain	 people	 to	 eat	 because	 you	 should	 be	 in	 that	 position,

become	rich	to	help?	He	said,	no.
If	you	are	a	laborer	only	and	you	earn	very	little	money	and	with	the	money	you'll	get	a
lot	of	bread	and	a	little	butter.	And	you	cut	a	piece	of	bread	thick	and	put	butter	and
want	to	satisfy	your	hunger.	You	don't	have	anything	more.
Be	thankful	to	that.	He	was	with	that	bread	looking	at	me.	And	you	see	a	starving	boy	or
a	dog,	starving	dog	there	looking	at	you	and	said	hungry.
You	cut	half	of	it	and	give	it	to	him	and	before	eating	see	that	that	child	is	eating	it	and
you	feel	the	pleasure	that	maybe	both	of	you	will	not	satisfy	completely.	You	are	hungry
and	feel	that	joy	instead.	Just	sharing	that	very	little	thing.
One	can	be	of	help	to	anybody	with	the	least	things,	not	just	expecting	to	get	more	and
more	and	more	and	become	a	millionaire	to	help.	So,	what	do	I	want	to	say?	He	was
under	 a	 force	 elemental.	 And	 I	 said	 that	 everything,	 every	 thought,	 every	 emotion,
everything	is	creating	an	elemental.
And	elementals	can	be	good	advisors	or	evil.	We	have	to	decide.	We	have	to	use	the
mind	and	reasoning.
Yes.	Now	we'll	make	a	meditation.	Relax	completely.
Know	now	that	you	are	a	separate	person	from	everyone	else	even	in	your	family.	You
are	 father,	 you	 are	 mother,	 you	 are	 children.	 You	 feel	 you	 are	 completely	 a	 separate
person	from	them	and	a	completely	separate	person	from	everybody	else	around	you.
But	 you	 are	 a	 small	 part	 of	 the	 divine	 lokoic	 selfhood.	 The	 fullest	 and	 most	 complete
expression	of	this	selfhood	was	Joshua	the	Christ	and	he	is	now	the	lokoic	selfhood.	And
all	human	beings	using	the	mind	and	reasoning,	we	are	in	that	lokoic	selfhood.
So	 feeling	 you	 are	 alone,	 this	 is	 an	 illusion.	 Very	 dangerous,	 sometimes	 to	 make	 you
punish	yourself	feeling	lonely.	Nobody	had	ever	been	lonely	or	abandoned.
Try	to	feel	that	you	are	you,	but	you	are	also	one	with	everybody	else	by	loving.	Love	is
the	divine	flame	uniting	all	souls.	Why	not?	And	all	personalities.
You	 are	 already	 a	 spirit,	 soul,	 ego,	 united,	 in	 what	 I	 call	 Christhood.	 Why	 not	 unite
ourselves?	Our	personalities	also	in	that	divine	flame	called	love,	love	of	the	lokos.	This
love	nourishes	and	all	our	bodies,	the	etheric	doubles,	our	emotional	body,	our	nautical
body,	purifying	them	and	uniting	them	with	the	lokos	who	is	everywhere	and	in	us.
Breathe	now	deeply	and	put	to	yourself	the	question,	who	am	I?	What	is	love?	Do	I	love?
And	whom	I	love?	And	again,	make	your	heart	a	bright	sun	with	golden	light	or	canary
yellow	light,	radiating	the	light	around	you.	Feel	that	light.	Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	you
are	love.

I	am	the	light	of	the	world,	said	Joshua	the	Christ.	To	radiate	this	love	towards	God	and
towards	all	other	human	beings.	Yesterday	you	brought	certain	people	one	by	one	with
whom	you	had	differences.
Seeing	them,	lighted	with	this	light	of	your	heart,	happy.	Now	bring	more	people	around
you.	People	you	have	differences	and	people	you	love.
Fill	this	space,	your	nautical	space,	with	people	you	know.	See	this	light	from	your	heart,
shine	on	their	faces	and	send	with	this	light	the	wish,	may	God	keep	you	always	in	good
health	and	in	his	love.	This	is	most	powerful	elemental,	purely	nautical	elemental.
The	 only	 desire	 they	 need	 is	 your	 wish	 to	 see	 these	 people	 in	 good	 health	 and	 living
happily.	Learn	to	create	most	powerful	elementals.	We	can	stop	wars,	but	of	course	one
has	to	learn	how	to	love,	starting	from	individuals,	members	of	the	family.
Are	you	sure	that	you	love	all	the	members	of	your	family?	Or	small	differences	created
in	yourselves,	other	feelings	than	love?	Love	your	neighbor	as	your	own	self,	not	less.
That's	 the	 big	 commandment.	 A	 new	 commandment	 I	 give	 to	 you,	 that	 you	 love	 one
another	as	I	have	loved	you.
And	by	this	people	will	know	that	you	are	my	disciples.	By	this	people	will	know	that	you
are	 Christians.	 A	 great	 honor	 and	 a	 great	 title	 indeed,	 to	 feel	 that	 you	 are	 good
Christians.
Beyond	 dogmas,	 heresies	 and	 stupid	 illusions,	 there	 is	 only	 one	 doctrine,	 Christian
doctrine.	Love.	Learn	to	love	so	that	you	will	feel	happy	because	the	love	elemental	will
come	back	to	you.
This	is	a	reward.	And	have	that	English	proverb	in	your	mind.	Blessings	and	curses	come
back	to	roost	in	their	source.
So	learn	how	to	revitalize	or	create	elementals,	angelic	elementals,	something	else.	You
cannot	extinguish	the	fire	with	fire.	We'll	extinguish	it	by	using	water.
And	you	cannot	extinguish	hatred	or	any	other	evil	feelings	except	by	love.	Meditation
means	 creating	 or	 revitalizing	 elementals.	 Our	 whole	 life	 is	 the	 creation	 of	 these
elementals	on	the	planet.
The	greatest	art	one	should	learn	is	to	create	good	elementals,	good	thought	forms	for
himself	or	herself	and	for	the	others	in	his	family	or	outsiders.	It	doesn't	matter.