

Daskalos-Dec-14-1992-B-Being-Human
Now,	what	is	this	sub-consciousness?	Is	this	sub-consciousness	our	own	self?	And	yes
and	no.	This	sub-consciousness	is	just	the	place	where	it	stores	all	our	experiences	as	a
personality.	It's	not	our	self.
But	we	can	use	it.	We	can	see	it.	We	can	enter	in	it.
Examine	what	is	going	on	in	it.	And	cause	changes.	The	first,	as	I	said	in	many	lessons,
thing	 that	 a	 fellow	 should	 just	 develop	 in	 himself	 or	 express	 fully	 is	 what	 we	 call
observation,	which	is	our	divine	nature,	this	observation.
So	when	starting,	starting	all	these	things,	we	should	be	careful	that	nothing,	nothing	at
all	should	escape	our	attention.	This	way	we	express	really	our	self-consciousness.	So	in
this	way,	observing	things,	we	know	what	is	in	these	things.
Who	knows	now?	We.	Who	we?	So	we	are	not	the	mind.	We	are	using	to	know	things,	but
we	are	different	from	the	means	we	are	using	to	know.
And	we	enter	in	another	place.	Are	we	the	consciousness?	We	can	study	by	observation
and	meditation	and	introspection	all	the	expressions	of	our	personality	as	sensitivity,
sub-consciousness,	 instinctive	 kind	 of	 consciousness,	 waking	 consciousness,
consciousness	and	then	self-consciousness.	From	this	moment	we	are	certain	that	we
are	not	the	consciousness.
The	consciousness	is	simply	the	way	we	express	ourselves.	It	is	not	our	self	before
expressing	the	self-consciousness.	Even	self-consciousness	now	calling	that	kind	of	time
and	place	based	self,	which	is	the	self	of	the	personality.
We	make	the	mistake	to	think	that	that	kind	of	self-consciousness	is	our	real	nature	and
our	 real	 self.	 Observing	 by	 raising	 to	 higher	 levels	 this	 kind	 of	 so-called	 self-
consciousness,	we	see	we	can	express	ourselves	as	self-superconsciousness.	Therefore
we	are	not	even	the	self-consciousness,	because	we	see	that	we	are	living	behind	that
personality	of	ours,	which	is	a	creation	of	circumstances,	time,	place	and	way	of	thinking
and	way	of	living.
Yet	what	do	we	find	there?	I	am	not	that	expression	of	myself	having	a	name,	a	form,	a
body.	Yet	I	have	the	form,	not	the	form	of	the	material	body.	Who	am	I	then?	Changing
or	raising	our	consciousness	to	higher	levels,	we	change	the	view	and	just	the	point	from
where	we	see	things.
And	we	see	that	we	receive	things	from	outside,	not	from	our	real	self,	in	ourselves,
trying	 to	 understand	 things	 and	 interpret	 things.	 Even	 in	 the	 so-called	 self-
superconsciousness,	we	are	not	in	ourselves	yet.	But	gradually	starting	the	introspection
and	looking	within	and	now	understanding	the	instructions	of	the	God-man,	who	was

perfect	God	and	perfect	man,	talking	to	us	about	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens,	which	is	in
us,	 in	 our	 being-self,	 we	 can	 see	 that	 we	 express	 now	 a	 kind	 of	 different	 self-
superconsciousness.
Which	are	the	qualities	of	this	kind	of	self-superconsciousness?	Getting	the	power	and
the	skill	of	attunement.	Sticking	on	something	and	getting	whatever	that	something	is
offering	us,	offering	to	our	consciousness.	Many	times	we	have	spoken	about	this	thing
we	call	attunement,	but	who	had	entered	in	the	meaning	of	attunement?	By	having	this
and	getting	the	skill	of	attunement,	in	one	single	moment	you	can	know	many,	many
things	that	through	other	means	of	observation	you	cannot	have	in	studies	in	years	and
years	in	front	of	you.
What	is	this	ability	in	just	receiving	things	and	knowledge	of	things	in	an	instant,	which
you	would	need	hours	and	years	to	take?	You	are	expressing	our	divine	nature	as	gods.
We	can	develop	in	us	to	some	extent	omnipresence.	What	were	the	instructions	of
Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ,	the	God-man,	to	us?	First	of	all,	he	said	that	we	are	gods	and
sons	of	the	Almighty,	offsprings	of	the	Almighty.
He	didn't	use	the	word	son,	he	said	the	offsprings	of	the	Almighty.	And	what	else?
Knowing	who	we	are.	That	means	extending	our	selfhood	beyond	time	and	a	certain
place.
And	the	limitations	of	what	our	way	of	living	is	giving	us	now.	I	tell	you	that	this	is
splendid.	Just	starting	feeling	that	we	are	not	mortal	animals,	you	start	knowing	what	is
life,	what	is	the	value	of	life.
What	you	are	as	gods,	what	is	God-divine.	Things	that	we	think	are	very,	very	important
in	life,	activities,	way	of	acting	and	doing	this	and	that,	is	not	so	important	as	we	think	it
is.	There	are	still	much	more	important	things	than	motives,	intentions	and	the	way	we
are	living.
Yet,	it	doesn't	mean	that	we	don't	have	to	do	what	we	call	destiny,	call	it	karma	if	you
like,	the	Hindu	expression.	It	places	us	now,	here,	to	learn	the	next	lesson.	And	we
cannot	learn	the	next	lesson	as	human	beings.
To	realize	what	we	are	as	soul	beings	unless	we	are	faithful	and	exact	to	what	we	have
to	do	today,	now.	So,	we	are	not	going	to	abandon	our	daily	duties.	Because	that's	the
way	through	which	we	will	develop	our	so-called	consciousness	to	self-consciousness.
Some	would	say,	yes,	now	I	see	the	truth,	yes,	I	see	something	more	of	the	truth.	Again,
the	relative	truth.	And	all	these	things	are	not	important.
No,	that's	a	mistake.	We	are	here	because	the	divine	intelligence	placed	us	here	to	get
our	next	lesson.	We	cannot	turn	our	back	to	what	we	have	to	do	today.

Today	we	have	to	do	certain	things.	The	only	thing	we	can	have	is	just	to	ask	the
absolute	infinite	intelligence	to	guide	us	according	to	your	will.	Your	will	be	done.
And	then	we	just	start	to	study.	What	do	we	want	to	do?	What	do	we	have	in	our	mind	to
do?	And	what	we	are	allowed	to	do,	not	what	we	want	to	do	will	be	done,	but	His	will	be
done.	Because	as	Joshua	Emmanuel	said,	not	even	a	leaf	is	falling	from	a	tree	unless
that's	the	will	of	God.
And	when	Pontius	Pilate	said	to	Christ,	don't	you	know	that	I	have	the	power	and	the
authority	to	set	you	free	or	send	you	to	death,	that	you	have	nothing	on	me	unless	it	is
given	to	you	from	above.	So	everything	which	takes	place	in	all	the	worlds	of	existence	is
in	the	divine	plan.	And	we,	gods	and	humans,	are	entrusted	by	the	absolute	infinite
intelligence	certain	things	to	make	use	of	them.
Use	of	them	in	what	way?	To	feel	ourselves	happy	and	make	others	happy.	That's	life.
This	is	what	we	should	have	in	our	mind.
Not	to	be	egoistic,	to	think,	no,	this	is	what	I	want	to	be	done.	If	we	see	that	it	is	not
possible	to	be	done,	it	means	that	it	is	not	the	will	of	God	to	be	done.	But	it	doesn't	mean
that	we	should	not	ask	God.
We	are	divine,	but	it's	God	who	is	to	decide.	Thy	will	be	done.	That's	definite.
Yet,	what	did	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	say	for	that	to	His	disciples?	Seek	the	kingdom
of	the	heavens	and	everything	will	be	given	to	you.	Asking	and	seeking	for	material
things,	they	may	be	given	to	you.	Because	he	said,	who	is	the	father?	When	his	child	will
call	him,	give	him	a	piece	of	bread,	will	give	him	a	stone.
Or,	I	would	like	to	have	a	fish,	will	give	him	a	snake.	And	if	you,	human	beings,	most
cunning,	can	give	good	things	to	your	children,	what	about	your	heavenly	father?	What
will	he	give	to	you?	So	everything	is	in	the	gospel.	So	we	can	ask.
And	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	said,	ask	and	it	will	be	given	to	you.	Seek	and	you	will
find.	Knock	and	it	will	be	opened	to	you,	even	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens.
But,	thy	will	be	done.	If	we	ask	for	something,	that	will	be	given	to	us,	definitely.	But	not
in	the	time	we	want,	in	the	time	the	heavenly	father	feels	that	he	will	not	have	it	now.
But	when	he	grows	to	become	a	man,	he	needs	to	share,	he	will	give	him	all.	Now	you
know,	now	it's	the	time	to	have	it.	Not	the	time	you	want	to	have	it.
So	we	should	not	be	naughty	children.	Ask,	of	course.	But	we	are	not	to	decide	when	it's
he,	the	heavenly	father.
So,	nothing	we	can	do,	never	mind	how	rightly	we	may	think	and	like	it,	unless	it	is	the
will	of	the	infinite	intelligence.	This	is	what	everybody	should	have	in	mind.	But	that

doesn't	mean	that	we	should	not	seek	perfection.
And	the	instructions	of	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	said	it	clearly.	Be	ye	perfect,	as
perfect	as	your	heavenly	father.	That's	an	instruction	and	an	encouragement.
We	can	be.	So,	we	have	now	to	see	what	is	our	nature.	What	is	the	nature	of	human
beings	all	around	us?	What	can	be	our	relations	to	the	other	human	beings?	The	center
of	everything	is	not	our	self.
Everybody	is	thinking	that	the	center	of	creation	of	everything	is	his	most	unimportant
personality.	This	is	what	we	call	the	egoism	of	the	personality,	which	will	disappoint
everybody.	So	we	must	consider	ourselves	not	unimportant,	but	important	to	the	extent
of	finding	the	same	importance	in	everybody	else.
New	instruction	I	give	you,	not	commandment,	that	you	love	one	another	as	I	love	you,
not	less.	So	if	you	bring	other	human	beings	to	your	level,	in	value,	whom?	Every	other
human	being	as	a	god.	Then	you	will	understand	the	value	of	life.
Then	you	regulate	your	activity	towards	the	others.	Thought	about	the	self	of	the	present
day	personality,	pleasure	as	a	reward.	Forget	that.
This	may	be	the	last	blow	you	have	to	give	to	the	personality's	egoism.	One	should
forget	himself	as	a	person,	so	that	he	will	find	out	who	he	is	as	a	soul,	ego	being.	The
one	 who	 loves	 his	 soul,	 meaning	 the	 personality,	 will	 definitely	 lose	 it,	 said	 Joshua
Emmanuel	the	Christ.
And	the	one	who	hates	it,	hates	just	the	way	of	life	one	is	living,	will	save	his	soul,	self,
by	knowing	that	I	am	not	all	that.	I	am	not	that	way	of	life	myself,	but	I	am	life	itself	and
not	the	expressions	in	life.	Now	these	things	everybody	should	consider	in	introspection,
looking	within	and	asking	the	help	of	his	god	and	angel.
The	god	and	angel	of	each	one	of	us	is	near	us,	ready	to	interfere.	If	we	ask	help	to	think,
day	and	night	you	are	talking	to	your	god	and	angel	without	understanding	it,	thinking
that	you	make	a	kind	of	monologue	with	yourself.	That's	not.
Because	the	time	you	are	doing	something	and	it's	wrong,	then	you	say,	no,	no,	I	think
that's	wrong.	It	is	the	interference	of	your	god	and	angel	within	you	saying	that.	Many,
many	times	each	one	of	us	have	heard	this	interference	of	our,	let	us	call	him	divine
brother,	the	holy	archangel,	in	us	and	with	us.
I	would	say	that	sometimes	this	holy	archangel	is	giving	a	very	bad	blows,	which	are
called	stings	of	consciousness.	If	one	is	overdoing	it	in	his	relations	towards	the	other
human	beings,	in	hating,	envying	or	doing	something	wrong,	then	that	fellow	gets	some
very	hard	blows	from	his	guardian	angel.	I	repeat	it,	I	call	that	stings	of	consciousness.

And	to	these	stings,	when	you	feel	them,	give	attention.	That	the	time	you	find	out	that
you	are	never	alone.	Whatever	a	fellow	is	doing,	thinking	is	known	to	his	guardian	angel
and	to	god.
To	god	in	himself.	Because	our	real	self,	the	spirit	echo	being	is	god	and	one	in	god	and
one	with	god.	Two	different	meanings.
So,	tomorrow	the	lesson	will	be	more	on	the	use	of	the	mind.	Of	course	on	elementals,
but	from	a	different	point	of	view.	Starting	the	subconsciousness	and	our	emotions.
How	these	emotions	are	created	and	how	we,	as	a	person	and	as	a	soul,	have	seen	them
and	regarded	them.	Now	we	will	make	an	exercise.	Relax	completely.
Your	body	should	be	completely	relaxed.	From	toes	to	the	head.	Feel	that	you	are
relaxed.
And	feel	that	you,	as	life	and	even	as	a	present	day	personality,	you	are	in	your	body.
Life	is	motion.	You	can	be	in	the	head,	on	the	tip	of	your	nose	if	you	like	to	concentrate.
On	any	of	the	two	ears.	In	the	eyes.	On	the	shoulders.
Breathing	in	the	lungs.	You	can	move	about	in	your	material	body	by	concentrating	on
these	points.	You,	on	the	hands,	fingers.
On	your	belly.	On	your	knees,	on	your	thighs,	on	your	feet,	everywhere.	That's	the	place
you	can	move	about	for	the	time	being.
You,	as	a	personality,	self,	ego.	Yet	expressing	the	egos.	You	are	a	feeling	entity.
You	are	feeling.	You	are	using	now,	subconsciously,	the	feeling	giving	ether	or	the
aesthetic	ether,	using	the	Greek	word.	You	feel.
You	are	living.	You	feel	any	member	of	your	body	by	concentrating	on	it,	yet	you	are
feeling	you	are	you	who	are	feeling	it.	Just	see	these	things	from	these	two	points.
Feeling	the	organ.	You	are	concentrating	on	and	feeling	yourself	feeling	it.	So,	feeling	the
organ.
You	are	changing	the	point	of	attention.	But	you	are	never	changing	the	point	of	your
personality	beingness.	So	you	have	a	steady	point,	you.
You	have	another	point	of	concentrating	your	attention,	which	is	anything	and	any	point
you	are	concentrating	on.	I	will	not	elaborate	more	on	it,	on	external	things.	But	in	your
body	now.
You	are	concentrating	now	on	the	tip	of	your	nose.	Feel	it.	Feel	the	tip	of	your	nose.

And	if	you	cannot	feel	it,	touch	it	with	your	finger	to	feel	it.	Feel	the	tip	of	your	nose.
Concentrate	only	there.
Feel	your	lungs	in	your	chest.	Breathe.	It's	easy	now	to	feel	it.
Breathe	deeply	and	feel	the	air	filling	your	lungs.	You	have	moved	in	another	point	from
which	you	get	impressions.	Your	lungs,	which	is	not	now	the	tip	of	your	nose.
Feel	your	two	eyes.	If	you	cannot	feel	them,	I	think	you	can	easily	feel	them.	Because
there	is	much	etheric	vitality	in	it.
Touch	them	with	your	fingers.	But	you	can	feel	them.	Feel	the	eyes,	the	eyeballs	in
there.
Feel	them.	You	are	you,	always	the	same.	Yet	the	point	you	are	concentrating	on	is
different.
It	is	your	eyeballs	now.	Now	breathe	and	be	in	your	lungs	again.	That's	you.
The	same	you.	Yet	you	are	changing	the	focus	of	concentration.	Now	feel	you	are	in	your
belly.
It's	not	difficult	just	to	feel	you	are	there.	Move	it.	You	can	move	your	belly.
Feel	there.	You	are	always	you.	The	one	who	concentrates.
Yet	you	are	changing	the	point	of	concentration.	Feel	your	knees	now.	You	cannot	feel
them,	just	touch	them	with	your	hands.
Feel	your	knees.	You	are	you	all	the	time.	Yet	you	are	changing	the	point	where	you	are
concentrating.
Feel	the	toes	now.	Move	them	if	you	like.	In	your	shoes.
You	are	in	your	body.	Now	breathe	deeply	and	with	comfort.	Be	in	your	lungs.
You	are	not	breathing	only	the	air	and	oxygen.	You	are	breathing	also	the	etheric	vitality.
It's	not	necessary	only	with	breathing	to	fill	yourself	with	that	etheric	vitality.
But	it's	a	means	of	just	filling	your	body.	And	you	are	etheric	double	with	the	etheric
vitality	by	breathing.	Breathe	and	now	visualizing,	seeing	through	your	imprinting	ear.
Every	 breath	 to	 fill	 the	 whole	 body	 with	 this	 etheric	 vitality.	 The	 air	 cannot	 go
everywhere	outside	of	your	lungs.	Yet	this	etheric	vitality	can	go	everywhere.
Not	only	in	your	body.	But	now	we	want	it	in	your	body.	Now	filling	the	whole	body	and
breathing.

See	with	your	imprinting	ear,	with	your	mind,	with	your	thought.	That	a	white	light	is	in
the	air	you	are	breathing.	Filling	the	whole	body	with	a	white	mist	of	light.
Doing	so	you	will	feel	a	vibration	in	your	body.	Try	to	feel	that	vibration	all	through	your
body.	In	all	your	body.
This	vibration	is	the	etheric	vitality	vibrating.	You	can	feel	your	material	body	through
your	 etheric	 double	 with	 this	 etheric	 vitality.	 In	 this	 way	 you	 get	 the	 skill	 as	 your
personality	to	concentrate	and	feel	itself.
Never	mind	not	the	real	self	yet,	it	is	the	personality	self.	But	you	start	from	that	making
you	understand	who	you	are.	At	the	beginning	as	a	personality.
A	name,	male	or	female	or	like	that.	But	that's	the	way	you	have	just	to	exhaust	our
work	until	you	reach	your	real	self.	To	reach	what	I	call	self-realization.
But	even	you	are	present	the	personality.	A	man	as	a	woman	has	in	it	the	divine	nature
of	your	spirit,	soul,	being.	To	express	itself	better	and	better	and	give	this	skill	to	your
present	the	personality	self.
This	is	the	way	to	develop	your	present	the	personality.	Of	course.	By	knowing	the	one
that	self	of	yours.
Never	 mind	 that	 is	 the	 personality	 or	 the	 soul.	 It's	 nature	 and	 getting	 the	 skill	 on
concentrating	on	anything	in	the	body	at	first.	Then	you	will	be	able	to	concentrate	on
anything	you	like	outside	of	your	body.
I	 mean	 that	 expansion	 of	 what	 I	 call	 your	 consciousness.	 That's	 not	 exosomatosis
though,	it	is	expansion.	But	it	needs	years	and	years	of	practice	and	introspection.
To	realize	who	you	are	as	a	personality,	as	a	person	living	in	the	cross	material	world.	Of
course	you	have	to	learn	the	elementary	school	lessons	before	going	to	higher	and
higher	schools.	You	cannot	jump	to	a	higher	school	unless	you	finish	the	elementary
school.
And	the	elementary	school	is	just	this	kind	of	exercise	we	have	to	do	in	our	material
bodies.	Later	we'll	have	these	exercises	in	and	on	our	personality.	Then	we	reach	to
what	you	call	wisdom.
And	believe	me	when	you	reach	to	that	stage	of	expressing	your	soul	expressions.	As
attunement	and	later	as	adornment.	As	intuition.
Then	you	will	find	yourself	very	proud.	And	know	that	you	are	not	just	like	the	animals
around	us	in	the	animal	kingdom.	It	is	finding	your	way	back	home	to	your	own	nature.