

Daskalos-Jan-30-1990-B-Face-the-sun-of-truth
So,	by	observation	and	meditation	in	the	work	which	is	done	in	the	material	bodies,	we
can	know	the	work	of	the	holy	archangels,	Michael,	Gabriel,	Raphael	and	Uriel.	The	three
are	the	lords	of	the	elements,	fire,	water	and	ether.	Uriel	is	the	balancer.
Now,	matter,	cross	matter	as	we	see,	is	not	supervised	by	an	archangel,	but	by	an	angel.
This	angel	is	Samael.	And	Samael	is	not	devil	or	the	evil	one.
Though,	that	angel	is	working	in	the	world	of	separateness.	What	does	it	mean,	Samael,
in	 the	 old	 Egyptian	 language	 and	 also	 in	 Sanskrit?	 El	 means	 caught.	 Sham	 means
delight.
A,	caught,	without	being	expressed.	And	then	El,	expressed,	which	means	Lucifer.	So	the
word	Samael	means	Lucifer.
Yet,	Lucifer	is	an	archangel,	or	rather	a	group	of	archangels	called	Lucifers,	projecting
Samael.	Now,	where	in	the	world	of	opposites,	we	meet	what	we	call	the	idea	of	evil,	is
another	 matter	 to	 be	 studied.	 So,	 by	 observation	 we	 see	 what	 is	 taking	 place	 in	 our
material	bodies.
By	 studying	 what	 is	 dreamless	 sleeping	 during	 the	 night,	 then	 returning	 back	 to	 our
material	body	to	wake	up	and	be	what	we	were	before,	going	to	sleep,	and	seeing	that
the	material	body	is	now	in	a	better	position	to	use	it,	we	would	be	wondering,	in	our
absence	from	this	body,	in	a	state	which	seemed	to	us	rather	as	annihilation,	but	it	was
not	so.	These	workers	were	doing	their	work	in	our	material	body.	Wounds	were	cured.
So,	we	must	just	observe	this	work	of	the	holy	archangels	in	our	material	body.	Now,	if	a
present-day	personality,	an	Highness,	now	decides	to	analyze	head	behavior,	meaning
studying	impulses,	desires,	emotions,	study	them,	find	their	nature,	and	what	they	do	to
that	present	personality,	most	of	the	time	torturing	her.	The	present-day	personality	is
tortured	by	its	own	creations.
Then,	 we	 start	 now,	 cleaning	 our	 so-called	 psychical	 body,	 or	 seeing	 in	 our
subconsciousness,	because	this	subconsciousness,	or	the	present-day	personality,	is	the
sum	 total	 of	 these	 elementals.	 So,	 we	 are	 not	 those	 elementals,	 since	 we	 can	 study
them,	and	replace	them,	or	dis-energize	them.	We	are	not	these	elementals.
I	say	again,	subconsciously	we	trace	our	nature,	the	thinker.	So,	is	our	subconsciousness,
our	psychical	body,	of	course	it	is,	yet	something	more.	The	psychical	body,	yes,	is	part
of	our	subconsciousness,	but	we	have	our	noetic	body	also.
How	can	we	define	this	subconsciousness	of	ours?	Is	our	subconsciousness	our	present-
day	personality?	No,	it	is	the	expression	of	our	present-day	personality	and	its	creations,
because	 our	 present-day	 personality,	 using	 the	 word	 I	 am,	 is	 not	 the	 elementals.	 We

have	to	make	a	distinction	now.	But	each	expression,	using	the	mind,	not	in	the	right
way,	it	is	our	subconsciousness.
And	we	said	in	a	lesson,	the	sum	total	of	these	elementals,	good	or	evil,	composes	our
present-day	personality.	And	our	present-day	personality	is	the	subconsciousness.	Yes,
but	in	that	present-day	personality,	we	find	the	I-ness,	which	is	not	the	subconscious.
Can	you	come	and	see?	Yes.	Of	course,	that	I-ness,	my	ego,	now	we	trace	the	egoism
again	from	another	side.	Yes,	you	are	not	your	egoism.
You	are	a	different	being	than	the	ego.	And	the	ego	is	not	a	being.	It	is	an	existing...	let
me	call	it	devil,	group	of	weaknesses	and	mistakes.
Yet,	these	elementals	of	ours,	now	created	by	the	present-day	personality,	under	the
influence	 of	 the	 already	 existing	 egoism,	 are	 things,	 or	 living	 things.	 Two	 of	 these
elementals	possess	energy,	which	you	can	call	it	a	kind	of	life,	yet	it	isn't	life.	It	is	an
expression	of	life.
How?	Because	they	can	use,	what	do	you	 call	it,	vibrations,	motion	and	energy.	 Yes.
Each	 elemental,	 good	 or	 bad,	 possesses	 energy	 and	 intelligence	 according	 to	 the
intelligence	of	its	creator.
And	the	sum	total	of	these	elementals	are	forming	our	egoism.	That's	why	our	egoism
presents	itself	as	ourselves	in	a	very	cunning	way,	to	deceive	even	our	I-ness	that	it	is
our	 self,	 while	 it	 isn't.	 So	 we	 have,	 by	 observation,	 meditation,	 concentration,	 trace
things	and	disentangle	ourselves	from	its	shadow.
Don't	think	that	the	egoism,	the	sum	total	of	these	elementals,	does	not	know	what	we
are	after	now	to	do.	It	will	counter	it	in	a	wise	way.	So	don't	think	it's	very,	very	easy	to
dominate	over	your	egoism.
It	needs	much	attention	and	observation.	I	call	it	introspection,	looking	within.	I	said	that
our	system	is	the	best	because	our	system	gives	this	way	of	tracing	and	knowing	which
you	don't	find	in	other	kinds	of	meditation,	which	is	going	round	and	round	and	round	in
the	 subconsciousness,	 round	 and	 round,	 in	 that	 subconsciousness	 of	 ours,	 without
coming	to	an	end.
So	 we	 need	 a	 right	 system	 going	 straight	 to	 the	 point	 and	 expressing	 our	 willpower,
authorizing	the	present-day	personality	to	use	that	willpower	to	win	the	battle.	There	is
no	other	way.	That's	why	I	insist	that	the	system	we	are	using	is	the	most	effective,
coming	to	a	real	goal.
So,	we	find	now	ourselves	slowly,	slowly	entangled	from	our	elementals	or	our	present-
day	 personality.	 And	 now	 we	 know	 that	 our	 present	 personality,	 material	 body,	 the
psychical	body	and	the	nautical	body	are	the	means	of	expressing	ourselves	where?	In

the	 material	 world	 as	 a	 material	 body	 and	 as	 emotions	 and	 thoughts,	 yet	 express
ourselves	independently	in	what	we	call	the	psychical	world,	through	our	psychical	body.
Then	later,	masters	of	the	mind	express	ourselves	as	self-consciousness	in	the	nautical
world.
Now	 from	 this	 point	 of	 view	 we	 get	 a	 kind	 of	 mastership.	 Now,	 we	 know	 what	 self-
realization	is.	Now	we	know	who	we	are.
And	find	that	what	we	thought	we	were,	we	were	not	that.	It	was	a	shadow.	A	shadow	in
time	and	space.
In	the	mirror,	I	call	matter,	psychical	matter,	substance,	and	substance.	And	even	in	a
clearer	mirror,	I	call	the	mind.	Body.
So	I	become	the	master	of	these	bodies.	Who?	Who	am	I	now?	Here	is	the	point.	We
should	partly	go	through	it.
Who	am	I?	I'm	afraid	now	we	will	dive	into	very	deep	waters.	But	we	have	to.	Having	a
material	body,	I	occupy	some	space.
And	I	know	myself	as	a	material	body.	Yes.	Even	if	I	find	myself	in	a	psychical	body,
again,	I	have	a	body.
I	know	it.	Who	am	I	now?	Out	of	these	bodies.	And	I	see	that	beyond	the	inner	body,	I	am
a	formless	super	substance.
Super	substance	full	of	life.	But	I	know	that	life	through	manifestation	of	life.	The	world	of
forms.
I	was	quite	satisfied	in	living	in	a	material	body,	moving	about	in	the	material	world	of
trees,	houses,	other	people,	tracing	people.	That	was	my	life.	As	I	call	it	life.
By	using	a	material	body.	The	same	thing	I	will	do	in	the	psychical	world.	Search	for
paradises.
Yes.	I	have	a	body.	Moving	about.
Then	 I	 put	 it	 in	 which	 body?	 Since	 your	 material	 body	 is	 lying	 on	 the	 bed	 sleeping
yourself,	yet	others	looking	after	that	body.	Circulation	of	the	blood,	metabolism,	and	all
that.	Who	are	you	now?	You	are	not	the	material	body.
Yet,	you	move	about.	The	next	day,	when	you	come	back	to	the	material	body,	you	say,	I
saw	that	lovely	tree.	Moving	in	nice	gardens.
Seeing	 the	 light.	 Seeing	 things.	 With	 which	 eyes?	 And	 who	 you	 were	 that	 moment
moving	in	the	psychical	world?	You.

What	are	your	characteristics?	The	characteristics	in	both	the	material	world	and	in	other
worlds	is	the	ability	of	getting	impressions	and	studying	them.	In	the	material	world	we
can	get	the	habit	of	studying	things	by	observation,	I	think.	Yet,	in	the	psychical	world
you	find	yourself	in	a	state,	you	think,	you	are	conscious	of	the	world	all	around	you.
You	see	things.	You	move	about.	Yet,	you	take	everything	as	it	is.
You	observe	that.	Now,	what	are	my	characteristics	of	my	nature	in	the	material	world?
In	observation.	What	does	it	mean,	observation?	Looking	attentively.
Fixing	myself	there	to	no	more.	Can	I	do	that	in	the	psychical	plane?	You	have	to	develop
it.	By	starting	now	in	the	material	world,	you	are	exercising	then	you	find	yourself	quite
awakened	in	the	psychical	world.
Now,	I	know	this	place.	Then	you	start	to	remember	it	is	not	the	first	time	I	see	it.	I	have
seen	it.
I	have	lived	in	it.	You	get	this	impression.	That	means	slowly,	slowly	be	reawakened	in
the	psychical	world.
Not	awakened,	reawakened.	Then	coming	back,	you	can	remember	everything.	In	the
course	of	time,	there	will	not	be	the	gap	of	forgetfulness	or	thinking	you	have	entered	in
a	state	of	nonexistence	and	then	existing	again.
But	you	pass	out.	In	the	same	way,	consciously,	you	can	open	the	door	and	from	the
other	room	of	the	house	step	to	the	other	room	of	the	house.	This,	I	call	self-conscious
exosomatosis.
And	one	has	to	gain	it.	Did	Christ	teach	that?	The	self-conscious	exosomatosis?	Yes.	He
said	to	his	disciples,	some	of	you	will	not	taste	death.
What	did	he	mean?	The	material	body	wouldn't	die.	Some	of	you,	who?	You.	Now,	when
you	have	for	the	first	time	the	conscious,	self-conscious	exosomatosis	and	find	yourself
in	 the	 psychical	 plane	 and	 self-consciously	 come	 back	 again	 without	 breaking	 the
consciousness,	you	laugh.
No.	That	material	body	will	die.	Nothing	more	to	me	than	an	overcoat.
I	can	take	it	off,	hang	it	there	and	I	can	put	it	on	any	time	I	like.	That's	not	me.	When	you
do	it	in	what	I	call	the	second	exosomatosis,	getting	out	of	your	psychical	body	but	you
cannot	do	that	before	you	become	the	masters	of	emotions	and	desires	because	the
vibrations	are	keeping	you	slaving	it.
When	mastering	this	psychical	body,	it's	as	if	after	taking	away	your	overcoat,	now	you
take	your	coat.	Remaining	with	the	rest	things.	Then	you	realize	that	I	am	not	my	bodies.

If	I	put	you	the	question	what	is	death	now?	You'll	say	the	body	dying	means	nothing	to
me	now.	And	if	the	body	is	supposed	to	die	not	sending	me	anymore	I'm	not	entering
that	once	again.	Now,	you	are	returning	in	your	body	and	you	feel	just	that	relief	and	the
pleasure	will	came	back.
It's	up	to	you	from	where	you	came	back.	Do	I	woke	up?	Yes.	If	you	advance	and	know
the	other	words	coming	back	it	is	as	if	returning	back	to	your	cellar	in	the	prison.
Because	life	in	the	material	body	in	comparison	to	the	life	in	the	psychical	world	and	in
the	nautical	world	it's	very	very	poor.	You	have	to	move	about	the	material	body	heavy
in	the	same	way	a	tortoise	is	carrying	its	shell.	Yet	you	do	it	and	you	have	to	do	it.
And	love	this	kind	of	life	in	the	material	world.	So	finding	who	you	are	our	ego	self-super-
consciousness	the	self-consciousness	is	in	need	of	a	form	to	be	the	life	itself.	Jumping
from	the	phenomenon	of	life	into	the	life.
No.	It's	not	in	need	of	any	form.	Can	it	get	its	form	back?	This	equation	put	to	me	by	a
fellow	of	the	inner	most	circle.
Of	course	you	can	get	it	back	anytime	you	like.	You	can	give	it	up	and	have	it	back
anytime	you	like.	Not	only	that	but	you	find	something	else	now.
In	the	world	of	forms	well	I	can	enter	in	the	world	of	ideas	all	the	ideas	which	are	lost
causes	and	the	forms	are	effects.	Can	I	use	any	other	form?	And	experiment	through
that	form?	Thought	form.	To	know	more	about	that	form?	Yes.
You	can.	But	you	love	this	human	form.	You	can	just	get	any	form	as	an	ego	I	am	I	yet
you	love	it.
Now	in	the	psychical	world	I	use	my	form	in	a	psychical	body	which	is	much	much	lighter
than	the	material	body.	That's	true.	And	you	find	it	out	when	you	live	self-consciously
there	and	study	the	laws	there	as	we	have	the	physical	laws	on	our	material	plate	you
have	them	in	the	psychical	world.
You	have	them	also	in	the	ethical	world.	Yes.	You	can	live	there	better	than	you	live	in
Cyprus.
In	Cyprus	I	live	in	the	material	world	yet.	But	now	we	said	everything	is	mine.	In	the
material	world	I	am	using	the	mind.
In	 its	 combinations	 combination	 of	 the	 elements	 like	 that	 I	 have	 matter,	 solid	 I	 have
water	I	have	all	these	things	around	and	I	will	build	a	house	definitely	I	must	have	a	plan
to	build	that	house	I	must	get	materials	and	in	the	course	of	time	with	the	help	of	others
paying	I	build	that	house	I	call	mine	and	I	can	live	in	it.	This	is	what	you	call	the	cross
material	of	the	material	plane	of	our	Earth.	In	the	psychical	world	I	have	mind	now	do	I

have	it	as	solid	mind	liquid	mind	and	all	that	I	have	in	the	material	plane	yes	because	all
the	worlds	are	governed	by	the	elements	and	say	an	octave	higher	you	have	solids	in
the	psychical	world	and	everything	we	have	in	the	material	world	but	now	mind	there	is
more	flexible	it's	not	as	mind	matter	of	the	material	world	a	strong	thought	is	building
things	there	and	you	have	them	what	you	want	you	can	see	it	you	have	it	but	is	that
real?	why	it	isn't	real?	it	is	because	there	matter	obeys	different	laws	so	by	learning	in
the	 material	 world	 through	 meditation	 and	 visualization	 to	 create	 mental	 things
consciously	creating	elementals	you	get	the	skill	of	using	the	mind	in	the	psychical	world
in	 creating	 what	 you	 want	 to	 have	 so	 thinking	 and	 observing	 in	 this	 psychical	 world
means	having	how	do	we	know	that?	by	living	ourselves	consciously	there	and	by	taking
all	those	who	are	studying	there	teaching	them	the	laws	of	those	planes	so	what's	life
now?	what	are	phenomena	of	life?	you	have	phenomena	of	life	in	the	material	world	you
have	phenomena	of	life	in	the	psychical	world	many	not	one	you	have	the	phenomena	of
life	in	forms	what	is	the	form?	is	the	form	or	the	expression	of	the	ideas	necessary	for
the	creation	of	the	universes?	yes	of	course	it	is	and	who	are	those	workers	using	the
mind	 in	 the	 various	 vibrations	 in	 building	 the	 universes	 and	 what	 exists	 in	 these
universes	then	you	come	in	contact	with	the	work	of	the	holy	archangels	the	lords	of	the
elements	then	you	come	to	another	form	can	i	do	the	same	thing?	can	i	have	what	i	call
the	creative	thought?	in	the	material	world	even?	of	course	you	can	have	it	you	had	it
and	you	lost	it	by	doing	bad	use	of	it	are	we	as	we	live	on	the	material	world	caught	in
exile	not	all	of	us	most	yes	are	caught	in	exile	in	exile	to	learn	and	know	what	the	mind
does	matter	substance	and	super	substance	get	their	lesson	of	knowing	the	words	of	the
creation	this	is	the	object	of	our	coming	in	the	material	world	learn	things	around	us
become	masters	of	matter	and	realizing	who	we	are	because	i	said	we	are	not	what	we
think	we	are	weak	existences	not	beings	yet	living	in	bodies	so	now	your	answers	your
questions	loudly	there	are	people	who	are	psychic	what	psychic	what	does	it	mean	they
are	psychic	the	door	to	the	psychic	world	is	open	yes	what	do	you	propose	that	they	can
close	that	door	and	get	stable	no	first	of	all	we	must	see	what	we	mean	by	psychic	what
is	psychic	have	emotions	and	knowing	them	and	feeling	what	people	are	called	psychic
are	 some	 sensitive	 people	 to	 certain	 vibrations	 of	 the	 psychic	 world	 well	 this	 is	 very
common	now	in	our	century	well	this	is	just	a	cause	to	excite	them	to	study	these	things
what	does	it	mean	be	psychic	of	course	they	should	study	it	now	and	what	will	be	their
gain	by	being	psychic	they	find	the	way	easier	but	many	of	them	don't	like	it	why	they
don't	like	it	it's	not	um	yeah	look	here	if	in	an	incarnation	you	want	to	have	something
it's	 not	 given	 to	 that	 incarnation	 and	 then	 we	 forget	 what	 we	 wanted	 to	 have	 and
another	incarnation	it's	given	to	us	why	should	it	frighten	us	since	we	wanted	it	and
nothing	is	given	to	us	unless	we	want	it	well	shall	I	call	them	naughty	children	asking	for
something	when	having	it	they	don't	feel	the	pleasure	of	having	it	it's	something	like
that	it's	better	that	they	will	study	what	they	gained	in	reality	more	than	just	being	a
little	 bit	 sensitive	 for	 feeling	 other	 things	 that	 would	 come	 they	 say	 they	 have	 the
instinct	of	feeling	something	will	come	and	it	comes	but	what	they	it's	the	first	step	only
yes	this	is	just	the	means	to	excite	their	taste	to	see	more	and	more	and	let	them	be

afraid	of	it	in	the	beginning	yes	how	do	I	know	or	how	do	I	recognize	the	elementals	that
come	towards	me	and	also	of	course	I	would	have	the	corresponding	vibration	that	I
would	have	this	element	on	me	so	how	do	I	recognize	that	corresponding	vibration	in	me
now	all	elementals	have	their	qualities	they	have	their	qualities	their	nature	how	do	you
recognize	an	elemental	coming	to	you	by	feeling	it	by	creating	in	you	its	vibrations	for
example	you	see	something	an	elemental	of	theft	let	us	say	so	is	just	to	get	it	you	see
that	thing	then	you	feel	phew	I	want	to	have	it	but	shall	I	get	it	or	leave	it	there	call	it
temptation	if	you	like	you	can	rather	have	it	no	I	must	have	it	taking	it	like	that	means
stealing	it	do	you	catch	that	vibration	no	that	is	not	true	for	every	desire	that	comes	to
you	 you	 are	 under	 the	 influence	 of	 a	 certain	 elemental	 of	 that	 kind	 therefore	 what
happens	stop	either	accept	it	which	becomes	slave	of	that	elemental	or	say	no	that	is
rejected	rejected	now	it	comes	again	with	much	more	force	but	I	want	it	I	should	like	to
have	 it	 or	 send	 it	 away	 that	 comes	 back	 therefore	 your	 ego	 is	 besieged	 because	 it
vibrates	through	the	pressure	yes	but	why	not	have	this	and	that	and	that	and	that	and
that	and	that	and	that	no	I	should	do	it	by	fighting	it	you	become	its	slave	you	will	do	it
because	you	have	the	elemental	and	your	ego	is	alive	now	to	defeat	it	get	it	interested
no	when	I	saw	I	need	it	I	don't	need	it	and	thinking	soberly	what	do	I	find	that	by	having
it	because	I	now	that	elemental	vibrating	inside	me	will	give	me	this	energy	I	see	by
being	 disinterested	 get	 it	 that	 elemental	 point	 and	 this	 is	 for	 everything	 else	 and
smoking	gambling	many	many	things	but	it	is	not	difficult	just	to	recognize	the	nature	of
an	 elemental	 coming	 to	 you	 because	 you	 sit	 reflected	 in	 if	 you	 accept	 it	 you	 are
responsible	for	accepting	it	you	are	not	responsible	for	coming	but	for	accepting	it	if	it	is
energy	 that	 comes	 from	 you	 you	 are	 free	 from	 it	 so	 we	 can	 disenergize	 all	 kinds	 of
element	by	feeling	we	are	not	interested	in	that	anymore	anymore	because	maybe	you
have	been	interested	in	less	of	it	before	this	is	the	way	of	disenergizing	any	element
which	means	uprooting	from	our	subconsciousness	certain	parasites	but	now	again	you
have	to	put	in	the	place	something	better	don't	leave	the	space	empty	find	the	contrary
element	and	create	a	new	element	and	plant	it	there	so	it's	not	just	that	temptation	of
having	 that	 thing	 by	 all	 means	 never	 matter	 what	 will	 follow	 by	 planting	 contrary
element	 oh	 to	 have	 the	 means	 to	 give	 the	 pleasure	 of	 having	 it	 to	 somebody	 else	 i
wanted	to	have	it	maybe	you	see	other	people	doing	that	maybe	you	can	afford	some
money	 buy	 it	 too	 and	 give	 it	 to	 somebody	 else	 you	 understand	 what	 i	 mean	 after
uprooting	an	element	of	any	nature	create	an	element	of	the	opposite	nature	and	plant	it
there	so	that	you	are	not	leaving	your	subconscious	empty	space	why	because	if	you
don't	do	that	that	will	come	again	and	again	and	again	and	claim	to	dominate	over	it
now	 you	 have	 given	 it	 pleasure	 yes	 there's	 another	 part	 to	 this	 question	 you	 said
yesterday	that	the	only	elemental	with	your	own	vibration	can	come	back	to	you	yes	this
i	understand	but	what	is	in	the	case	of	black	magic	or	somebody	who	puts	a	curse	on
you	of	black	magic	yes	yes	how	come	can	that	element	still	damage	you	do	you	have
the	 same	 vibration	 or	 how	 does	 that	 work	 or	 how	 can	 you	 protect	 yourself	 not
necessarily	to	be	one	black	magician	everybody	is	practicing	subconsciously	black	magic
that's	why	that's	why	christ	said	don't	desire	what	belongs	to	your	neighbor	he	didn't	say

don't	desire	something	like	that	of	your	neighbor	because	everybody	is	practicing	if	i
don't	call	it	black	magic	brown	magic	next	a	black	magician	is	practicing	such	elements
for	certain	purposes	black	black	magic	means	killing	somebody	yes	for	example	i	mean
that	suppose	somebody	wants	to	kill	somebody	who	is	a	black	magician	there	are	ways
which	better	not	describe	here	we	can	do	it	so	an	elemental	call	it	evil	will	go	to	that
person	will	strangle	that	person	if	that	person	vibrates	in	the	same	rate	of	vibrations	he
will	have	it	and	it	is	a	scheme	but	even	so	that	element	doubles	itself	in	striking	and	it
turns	back	to	the	black	magician	or	to	the	one	who	has	pain	so	nobody	is	escaping	his
evil	action	the	black	magician	no	so	if	the	other	fellow	is	in	a	scenario	they	will	strike	on
him	and	the	rebound	will	come	back	to	the	black	magician	it	is	as	if	you	have	a	solid	wall
and	you	throw	something	and	it	comes	on	your	head	if	it	is	soft	it	will	pierce	him	so	the
best	shield	against	black	magic	is	a	clean	and	pure	heart	and	love	to	god	and	to	man	this
is	just	the	best	shield	now	it	is	not	only	black	magic	maybe	you	love	someone	who	is
living	a	most	life	you	want	to	catch	him	but	he	is	living	his	life	to	take	his	lessons	you	see
him	you	call	him	evil	people	are	calling	him	evil	and	i	love	that	man	or	woman	relative	or
stranger	 it	 doesn't	 matter	 what	 you	 do	 you	 create	 an	 element	 a	 blessing	 which	 is
subconsciously	 done	 going	 to	 him	 or	 consciously	 create	 a	 kind	 of	 guardian	 angel
guardian	 angel	 elemental	 not	 the	 guardian	 angel	 given	 to	 azimuth	 from	 god	 to	 be
equified	 with	 him	 it	 is	 very	 different	 between	 the	 guardian	 angel	 and	 the	 elemental
guardian	again	angel	so	you	set	that	element	that	element	of	course	to	him	he	doesn't
find	now	the	opportunity	to	catch	him	because	he	doesn't	vibrate	to	the	level	vibrations
of	that	angelic	element	will	he	come	back	to	you	again	according	to	the	law	it	doubles
itself	leaves	there	a	part	of	itself	and	that	blessing	comes	back	to	you	and	the	cases	so
the	blessings	come	back	to	you	and	that	will	remain	on	him	waiting	for	every	time	that
he	will	vibrate	in	a	better	way	to	benefit	himself	when	maybe	after	six	months	a	year	two
years	another	incarnation	so	any	elemental	will	not	disenergize	itself	by	itself	unless	it
fulfills	its	purpose	for	which	it	has	been	created	and	then	automatically	it	disenergizes
itself	so	with	disenergizing	is	too	many	either	with	disenergizing	or	after	accomplishing
its	purpose	good	or	evil	it	is	self	disenergized	so	of	course	this	needs	very	less	to	explain
about	this	element	but	this	element	are	our	daily	life	and	you	should	be	very	careful	of
the	quality	of	this	element	composing	our	present	life	and	so	on	yes	did	I	satisfy	you
lovely	people	it's	a	long	time	we	want	to	shoot	this	question	come	on	do	it	after	all	what
is	 a	 dream	 a	 dream	 yes	 yes	 there	 are	 many	 many	 kinds	 of	 dreams	 definitely	 there
cannot	be	any	dream	unless	you	have	this	experience	in	your	subconscious	you	never
see	things	you	don't	know	which	are	the	quality	of	the	present	day	personality	outside	of
the	material	body	and	it	draws	this	kind	of	dreams	which	vibrate	to	that	personality	so
what	a	dream	you	will	see	we	said	that	all	elements	get	a	form	whether	you	know	it	or
not	any	thought	and	then	if	desire	creates	a	form