

Daskalos-Dec-14-1992-A-Being-Human
Our	Father,	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread.
And	forgive	us	our	transgressions,	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	while	being	in	temptation.	And	deliver	us	from	evil.
For	 thine	 is	 the	 kingdom,	 and	 the	 power,	 and	 the	 glory,	 for	 ever.	 Absolute,	 infinite
beingness,	God.	Everlasting	life,	love,	and	mercy.
Manifesting	yourself	in	yourself	as	your	total	wisdom	and	your	almightiness.	Enlighten
our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.	Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards
you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	Today	the	lesson	is	very	important	in	relation	to	the	constitution	of	a	human
being.	Concerning	the	human	being,	we	said	that	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God
the	Father,	is	always	in	its	self-sufficiency,	self-abundance.
In	this	absolute,	infinite	beingness	is	also	the	will-pleasure	to	manifest	itself	in	itself,
presenting	now	itself	as	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	the	Logos.	Logos	means	the
expression.	We	don't	have	a	second	God.
It's	the	absolute	beingness	manifesting	itself	as	the	absolute	beingness.	To	express	its
will-pleasure	to	manifest	itself	in	itself,	that	means	to	create	the	world	of	existence.	We
said	that.
The	 moment,	 which	 is	 always,	 it	 was	 always,	 it	 will	 always	 be.	 This	 will-pleasure	 is
manifested	from	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness	and	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	the
Lord,	and	the	Holy	Spirit	emanates.	The	mind,	is	the	mind	the	nature	of	the	absolute
beingness	and	beingness?	Its	expression,	yes.
The	mind,	we	call	it	Geist,	is	not	the	Holy	Spirit.	The	mind	is	the	emanation.	It's	holy,	not
divine.
It's	not	God,	the	mind.	Now,	set	in	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness	are	beings.	Many
orders	of	beings.
How	many?	Nobody	can	know.	Not	even	the	Archangels.	These	beings	now,	that	means
self-conscious,	feeling	being	themselves	apart	from	the	beingness.
In	the	beingness,	in	full	oneness	with	the	beingness,	yet	feeling	they	are	themselves.
This	 makes	 what	 we	 call	 the	 multiplicity	 of	 the	 absolute,	 infinite	 beingness.	 And
expressing	themselves,	they	express	themselves	in	a	common	way	as	the	absolute,
infinite	beingness,	which	is	the	locus	and	the	Holy	Spirit.

So,	what	are	we?	One	class	of	these	beings.	But	there	are	many	classes	of	these	beings.
In	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness,	all	the	beings	are	similar.
But	expressing	themselves	in	the	absolute,	infinite	beingness	now,	in	the	locus,	each	of
the	beings	is	expressing	its	own	self-identity.	Why?	Who	knows?	And	then	they	classify
themselves,	 dressing	 themselves	 with	 their	 own	 nature	 of	 the	 mind	 to	 their	 divine
orders.	They	make	the	Archangelic	orders.
And	we	make	our	human,	the	heavenly	human,	our	order.	So,	the	humanity	is	one	of	the
Archangelic	orders.	We	are	Archangels.
We	are	sons	of	God.	Gods,	as	the	Holy	Archangels	are.	But	now,	we	enter	in	the	world	of
the	manifestation,	in	the	world	of	existence.
Is	there	any	other	kind	of	world	beyond	the	world	of	existence	and	the	world	of	the
beingness?	Maybe.	Maybe.	But	what	we	can	know	as	human	beings	are	the	worlds	of
existence.
And	those	of	the	human	beings	who	have	raised	themselves	beyond	the	human	being,
entering	in	those	worlds,	they	couldn't	find	worlds	to	express	anything	more	splendid
than	the	worlds	of	existence.	Enough	for	us	human	beings,	as	long	as	we	live	in	the
material	 bodies	 and	 the	 other	 bodies,	 to	 understand	 the	 total	 wisdom	 and	 the	 all-
mightiness	of	the	infinite	beingness	and	beingness	to	our	capacity	of	understanding.
Now,	great	ones	through	these	ten	centuries,	many,	many	centuries	back,	had	engaged
themselves	in	studying	these	problems	concerning	the	human	being.
How?	They	found	out	that	they	can	use	the	mind	as	thought,	in	introspection,	in	research
to	know	the	truth.	They	got	advantage	of	this,	their	own	divine	nature	of	thinking,	using
the	mind.	They	found	out	that	all	the	other	animal	life	all	around	them	could	not	do	that.
This	made	them	understand	that	the	human	beings	are	gods	and	not	simply	creations	as
the	vegetable	kingdom	and	the	animal	kingdom.	God	has	proved,	really,	that	we	are
gods,	creating,	even	subconsciously	creating,	because	we	have	changed	our	life.	The
animals	are	living	in	the	same	way	they	were	living	all	through	the	centuries.
The	lions	are	lions,	the	cows	are	cows,	the	dogs	are	dogs,	because	they	could	not	use
the	mind	to	express	their	own	nature.	It's	not	the	mind	that	creates	all	that,	but	we,
through	the	mind,	create	that.	Now	you	have	a	human	being	living	in	big	cities,	dressing
himself,	presenting	himself	in	his	own	way,	not	in	the	way	of	the	animals.
Any	lion	is	behaving	like	all	the	lions,	and	every	cow	is	just	a	cow,	as	all	other	cows,	as
are	all	the	animals.	But	not	all	human	beings	are	the	same	as	an	ego	personality.	They
are	all	different,	because	they	express	their	divine	nature,	never	mind	if	it	is	in	an	animal
way	of	living,	just	living	like	all	the	other	animals.

Yet,	we	are	expressing	a	god.	In	what?	In	expressing	willpower,	creativeness,	and	of
course	our	own	self.	You	say,	our	own	self,	and	us	human	beings,	as	Helena,	as	Alex,	are
we	gods?	In	nature,	yes	we	are,	but	in	expression	we	are	human.
We	have	double	nature	now.	As	we	have	a	body	with	many	members,	yet	we	have	a
heart	which	beats	and	keeps	the	life	in	the	material	body,	which	is	very,	very	different
from	what	are	the	hands,	the	fingers,	the	nose,	and	other	parts	of	the	body,	the	heart.
So,	the	heart,	spiritual	heart	of	every	human	being	is	God,	is	his	own	being,	self-ego.
Because	unless	that	is	not	so,	a	human	being	cannot	live	and	exist.	So	we	are	double.
We	have	the	animal	life,	but	we	are	not	animals,	we	are	gods,	expressing	ourselves	in
our	divine	nature.
So,	now,	how	a	human	being	is	created,	and	how	an	animal,	any	kind	of	animals,	is
created,	we	shall	see	our	difference	from	the	animal	life	all	around	us.	We	will	not	take
just	the	vegetable	kingdom,	only	the	animal	kingdom.	When	a	human	being,	being	now,
coming	from	the	beingness,	passing	through	the	locus,	entering	in	the	idea	of	man,	our
own	nature,	human	nature,	expresses	itself	as	the	spirit,	is	accompanied	by	a	brother	of
that	spirit	being,	who	is	in	the	orders	of	the	Archangels,	we	call	thrones,	next	to	the
beingness,	becoming	what	we	call	a	metatronios.
That	spirit,	egophiles,	become	one	by	oneness	to	the	spirit	ego	of	ourselves,	who	is
supposed	to	be	humanized	and	incarnated.	This	is	the	first	process.	What	is	created	now,
in	that	being,	which	is	our	ego,	spirit	being,	and	the	egophyte	already,	metatronios,	our
so-called	guardian	archangel,	they	get	the	idea	of	man,	in	the	beingness,	in	the	total
wisdom	of	the	beingness,	to	work	on	it,	creating	what	I	call	the	permanent	atom,	that
point	on	which	the	human	being	will	be	created.
So	the	permanent	atom	is	the	first	thing	to	be	created.	The	seed,	as	we	have	in	every
seed,	 no	 matter	 if	 it's	 very	 small,	 big	 or	 bigger,	 it's	 a	 seed.	 We	 have	 the	 circle	 of
possibilities	of	that	kind	of	manifestation,	so	is	the	permanent	atom.
Now	I	said	in	a	lesson,	if	you	get	the	seed	of	an	eucalyptus	tree,	very,	very	small,	just
like	the	head	of	a	pin,	or	smaller	yet,	and	see	it,	what's	that?	A	seed.	Yet	in	it	is	the	circle
of	 possibilities	 of	 that	 kind	 of	 existing	 life.	 You	 plant	 it,	 you	 give	 it	 the	 right
circumstances,	and	that	grows	to	a	big	eucalyptus	tree.
It	has	in	it	the	circle	of	possibilities.	Shall	we	call	it	the	circle	of	possibilities	of	any
manifestation	of	life?	It's	a	permanent	atom.	Yes.
It's	a	permanent	atom.	But	the	permanent	atom	of	an	animal,	or	of	anything	else,	is	in
the	total	wisdom	of	the	Almighty.	It	doesn't	carry	with	it	a	God.
In	our	case,	our	permanent	atom	carries	in	it	our	divine	nature,	which	is	different.	So
every	creation	in	the	animal	life	has	behind	it	an	angel,	an	elemental	of	the	archangels,

and	of	an	archangel.	And	the	whole	process	in	the	world	of	creation,	which	is	taking
place	in	the	vegetable	kingdom	and	in	the	animal	kingdom,	is	taking	the	same	place	in	a
human	being.
Which	means	the	archangels	of	creation	get	from	the	absolute,	total	wisdom	of	God	that
principle	that	reflects	the	thought	and	the	form.	The	thought	of	it	creates	the	form.	The
thought	of	God	creates	the	form,	which	is	everlasting,	permanent.
There	was	not	time	that	forms.	Now	existing,	we	are	not	in	the	absolute,	total	wisdom	of
God	as	principles.	Nothing	is	created	new.
Everything	was,	is,	will	be,	and	everything	will	exist	in	the	course	of	time.	Now,	we	leave
the	 animal	 kingdom.	 Behind	 the	 animal	 kingdom	 is	 the	 archangel,	 the	 angel,	 the
archangels	of	the	elements,	working	on	that	form,	but	not	an	individual	God	being.
In	a	human	being.	Soon,	our	own	being,	spirit	self,	with	the	guardian	archangel,	who	is	a
metastronism,	 starts	 to	 manifest	 themselves.	 A	 third	 agent	 must	 present	 itself	 to
complete	a	triangle.
And	the	two	sides	are	not	forming	a	triangle.	That's	the	will	of	the	beingness	of	God,
calling	the	archangel,	so	the	archangel	to	participate,	to	prepare	around	that	permanent
atom,	which	is	our	spirit,	ego	being,	and	our	metastronism,	and	also	the	locus.	The	third
expression,	to	work	on	the	absolute,	total	wisdom	concerning	the	human	being.
So,	in	the	permanent	atom	of	a	human	being	is	the	total	wisdom,	the	seat	of	the	father,
of	the	beingness.	To	whom?	To	the	beingness,	to	the	locus.	Let	us	create	man,	so	man	is
a	creation	now,	to	our	image	and	according	to	our	likeness.
That's	complete.	So,	all	the	archangels	of	the	elements,	while	the	absolute	beingness
vibrates,	becoming	the	absolute	infinite	beingness,	co-vibrates	with	these	archangelic
orders,	they	start	creating	the	work	on	the	permanent	atom,	to	build	up	the	bodies	of	a
human	being.	So,	what	is	created?	Created	now,	around	the	permanent	atom.
The	permanent	atom	is	not	something	created	by	the	archangels,	it's	our	own	self,
everlasting.	It	is	in	it,	what	we	call,	our	form,	the	human	form,	our	own	nature,	divine
nature,	 as	 God's	 human	 beings.	 Now,	 they	 start	 to	 get	 that	 permanent	 atom,	 and
expressing	the	good	pleasure	of	the	absolute	infinite	beingness,	now	working	as	the
absolute	infinite	beingness,	the	locus,	or	the	manifestation,	they	start	the	creation	of	the
bodies.
Now,	the	body	must	have	a	form.	Everything	existing	around	us	in	the	world	has	their
own	form.	It	must	have	our	human	form,	our	divine	nature.
We	are	never	losing	our	human	form,	with	our	characteristics.	So,	on	that	human	form,
they	are	working.	They	did	not	create	the	human	form,	they	found	it	ready	to	work	on	it.

As	a	human	being,	the	form	is	not	work	of	the	holy	archangels.	They	get	it,	they	get	the
blueprint	 by	 infinite	 beingness	 to	 work	 to	 it,	 and	 construct	 a	 building.	 It's	 not	 the
blueprint	you	call	it,	just	that,	to	work	on	it.
So,	they	start	building	around	the	form,	which	luminous,	splendid,	magnificent,	pure,
divine,	our	human	form.	Then	working	on	it,	they	create	the	noetic	body.	That	form,	I	am
saying	now,	is	our	spirit	form.
I	don't	want	to	call	it	a	body.	It's	a	form,	though.	It's	not	a	body.
Because	that	form,	the	human	form,	our	so-called,	call	it	never	mind,	spiritual	body,	is
not	 limited	 by	 time,	 place,	 space,	 or	 any	 other	 limitations.	 It's	 God.	 It's	 our	 divine,
everlasting	self.
Immortal	God.	So,	now	we	take	the	form.	What	is	this	form?	Our	human	form.
The	human	form	of	every	one	of	you,	in	place,	everywhere.	But	now	this	form	has	to	be
presented	and	preserved	in	bodies.	Your	own	ego,	beingness,	and	being,	your	real	being,
is	not	limited	in	the	bodies,	as	a	God.
It's	everywhere.	Can	we	develop	this	part	of	our	beingness,	at	least,	if	not	the	beingness,
to	vibrations	beyond	the	limits	of	the	bodies?	Yes,	we	can	do	that.	But	who,	reaching	that
splendor	of	the	divine	self,	found	ever	words	to	explain	what	are	these	divine	states	of
our	real	nature?	Of	course,	the	Locos.
Joshua	Emanuel,	the	Christ	as	a	human	being,	knew.	He	was	feeling	that,	expressing	it
as	a	human	being.	But	with	what	words	was	he	able	to	explain,	even	to	his	disciples,	this
divine	state	of	beingness?	They	have	asked	him	about	divine	things.
He	says,	did	you	understand	the	material	things	in	the	worlds	of	existence,	so	that	I
would	be	able	to	speak	to	you	about	the	divine	things?	Yet	what	did	he	say?	When	the
Holy	Spirit	will	be	in	you,	you	will	understand.	That	will	make	you	understand	the	Holy
Spirit.	 Which	 means	 that	 you	 are	 not	 only	 the	 God	 being,	 our	 own	 being,	 you	 are
expressing	 also	 the	 Locos	 beingness,	 we	 are	 Locoic,	 and	 also	 our	 spiritual	 nature,
because	the	Holy	Spirit	is	everywhere	and	in	us.
So,	us,	the	absolute	infinite	being,	beingness,	God	is,	we	call	it	the	triad,	so	is	the	human
being.	The	human	being,	the	soul,	and	the	permanent	personality.	That's	how	we	are,
image	and	likeness	of	God.
And	as	they	call	the	Archangels	of	the	elements,	are	working	every	moment	in	creating
the	universes,	so	they	are	working	in	the	human	body	of	every	human	being,	to	create
and	sustain	the	human	being's	bodies.	Only	in	every	animal,	in	every	plant,	everything
which	has	form,	these	Holy	Archangels	of	the	elements	are	working,	just	to	have	what
we	call	the	manifestation	of	a	phenomenon	of	life,	from	the	Amoeba	to	the	Galaxy.	So,

one	understanding	this	great	work,	tremendous	great	work	of	the	Archangels	is	amazing.
But	these	Archangels,	each	one	of	them,	and	as	a	group,	they	get	their	total	wisdom	and
almighty	force,	strength,	power,	from	the	Locos	and	from	the	Holy	Spirit,	which	are	one.
Now,	a	general	description	of	the	works	of	existence.	Now,	we	said	everything	existing
and	having	a	materialized	form,	not	the	form,	the	form	is	not	the	creation	of	the	mind,
but	the	mind	now	is	the	stuff	by	which	the	Holy	Archangels,	as	elements,	Lords	of	the
elements,	will	dress	up	that	form	to	create	the	bodies.
Of	the	human	being,	as	we	said,	the	first	body	we	can	understand	is	our	noetic	body,
which	is	a	reflection	of	our	spirit,	ego,	self,	in	form.	It	is	still	in	the	world	of	ideas,
principles	and	causes.	The	reflections	are	giving	us	now	the	form	dressed	in	the	mind	as
the	noetical	body,	having	in	it	all	our	qualities	as	a	thinking	person	and	being	to	different
things.
So,	thought	is	the	product	of	the	mind,	how	we	are	using	the	mind,	but	it	is	not	ourselves
who	is	behind	to	use	the	mind	and	manifest	itself	as	a	thought,	and	later	as	an	emotion,
as	an	intention.	So,	we	return	to	the	permanent	atom,	which	is	as	small	as	the	point,	not
the	head,	of	a	pin,	yet	as	great	as	the	universes.	It	is	not	a	matter	of	size,	it	is	a	matter
of	quality,	and	on	it	they	start	building	the	bodies.
So,	in	the	permanent	atom	we	will	find	our	being-self	and	the	equified	Archangel,	which
is	not	our	self	and	it	is	also	our	self,	by	oneness.	So,	in	it	there	is	everything	related	to
our	circle	of	possibilities.	The	circle	of	possibilities	belongs	to	our	being-self	ego	and	to
the	Guardian	Archangel.
But	what	about	the	circles,	the	many	circles	of	probabilities	now,	that	belong	to	the	Holy
Archangels?	 And	 they	 are	 the	 judges,	 together	 with	 the	 Archangels	 of	 the	 Order,
concerning	the	bodies	of	a	human	being,	the	noetical,	the	psychical	and	the	material.	So,
now	we	have	three	bodies,	which	we	can	know	and	work	with	them.	The	material	body,
the	so-called	emotional	or	psychical	body,	because	it	is	used	more	by	the	personality	as
a	soul,	and	our	noetical	body,	these	three	bodies.
But	they	should	have	a	connecting	link	between	them,	which	is	the	more	in	which	and	by
which	they	are	built	and	they	are	sustained.	So,	what	is	that	link	which	joins	these	bodies
from	above	below?	The	so-called	etheric	doubles.	So,	we	have	an	etheric	double	of	the
material	body,	we	have	an	etheric	double	of	the	so-called	psychical	body	and	an	etheric
double	of	the	noetical	body.
As	we	have	three	bodies,	we	have	three	etheric	doubles.	Now,	the	power,	the	force,	the
energy	is	on	the	etheric	doubles	and	then	on	the	bodies.	The	bodies	are	created	by	the
etheric	doubles.
So,	in	the	etheric	doubles	we	have	the	total	wisdom	of	the	Almighty.	And	the	Holy

Archangels,	building	the	bodies,	are	building	them	in	and	through	the	etheric	doubles.
Now,	I'm	not	going	to	speak	and	say	anything	about	the	etheric	doubles	between	the
noetical	body	and	the	noetic,	call	it	body.
I'm	not	going	to	speak	about	the	etheric	doubles	between	the	material	body	and	the	so-
called	psychical	body	or	emotional	body.	But	I'll	speak	about	the	relation	between	the
material	body	and	its	etheric	doubles,	which	really	concerns	us.	The	etheric	double	of
our	material	body	has	the	form	of	the	human	body	intact,	complete.
It	 is	 the	 mould	 in	 which	 and	 through	 which	 the	 material	 body	 is	 built,	 from	 the
spermatozoon	to	the	old	age.	So,	the	etheric	double	of	our	material	body,	changing	its
appearance,	not	the	human	form,	because	the	human	form	is	in	it,	in	all	the	stages	of
development,	 changing	 its	 appearance,	 constantly	 changing	 the	 appearance	 of	 the
material	body.	So,	through	the	etheric	double	of	our	material	body,	the	Holy	Archangels
of	the	elements	are	working	for	the	well-being	of	our	material	body.
Every	blood	vessel,	every	little	gland,	everything	existing	in	the	material	body,	every	just
blood	globule	and	anything	is	first	created	in	the	etheric	double	and	then	in	the	material
body.	So,	as	you	have	the	general	mould	in	which	the	whole	material	body	is	built	up,
have	billions	and	billions	of	little	moulds	in	which	every	molecule,	every	atom,	every
organ	is	to	be	built	and	sustained.	Can	you	imagine	this	great	work	done?	So	many
channels	of	creativeness	by	the	Holy	Archangels?	Every	hair,	and	Christ	said,	the	hair	on
your	body	are	counted	and	are	developing	each	one	with	mathematical	precision.
That's	 the	 great	 truth.	 So,	 what	 is	 the	 form	 now	 of	 the	 permanent	 atom?	 Anything
concerning	the	circle	of	possibilities	of	a	human	being.	Life,	the	manifestation	of	life	in	a
human	form.
Now	we	know	that	the	human	form	is	divine,	not	the	creation	of	the	mind	or	the	creation
of	the	Archangels,	but	it	is	in	the	multiplicity	and	the	total	wisdom	of	the	absolute	infinite
beingness	from	which	it	comes	down,	not	only	for	the	human	being,	but	for	every	form	of
existence	 and	 manifestation	 of	 life.	 Just	 imagine	 this	 great	 wisdom,	 total	 wisdom.
Almightiness	would	sit	perfect	in	the	life	of	an	amoeba	and	would	sit	perfect	in	the	life	of
a	galaxy.
Perfect	in	which	way?	Motion,	movement.	Because	everything	existing	is	manifesting	the
unmanifested	motion	of	the	infinite	beingness.	So	motion	is	the	nature	of	life.
Motion	is	in	absolute	infinite	beingness.	Motion	without	anything	moving.	Yet	motion,	the
law.
And	then,	because	that	motion	is	when	something	to	be	moving	starts	to	exist,	we	see
manifested	the	motion.	Can	we	call	motion	the	nature	of	the	absolute	infinite	beingness?
Yes?	Can	you	understand	life	without	motion?	At	least	on	the	material	plane	and	on

anything	else?	Motion,	not	simply	moving,	changing	the	place	of	the	material	body,	but
as	vibration,	force,	power,	energy,	and	in	the	etheric	double,	the	etheric	vitality.	Now,
etheric	vitality.
So	I	see	in	this	energy,	in	this	kind	of	motion,	life	in	it.	Etheric	vitality.	Now,	you	would
start	to	understand	what	is	vitality.
You	can	never	see	manifested	vitality	unless	there	is	motion	in	it.	Vibrations.	No	need	to
bother	more	about	it	because	it's	a	very	deep,	deep	problem	which	human	mind	cannot
conceive.
What	is	this	kind	of	etheric	vitality?	Yet	this	etheric	vitality	is	our	life.	The	life	of	our
material	body	and	the	life	of	our	personality.	Even	so,	yes,	because	even	that	is	the	mind
in	different	frequencies	of	vibrations.
Now,	we	can	just	speak	much	about	what	we	call	vibrations,	frequencies	of	vibrations,
energy	and	all	that	without	exhausting	this	matter,	even	if	volumes	of	books	will	be
written.	You	ask	me	what	do	I	know	from	my	own	experiences?	Many,	many	things	which
cannot	be	expressed	in	words.	Then,	well,	then,	raise	yourselves	higher	and	higher	and
higher	in	what	I	call	consciousness,	self-consciousness,	super-consciousness,	because	all
these	expressions	of	your	being	as	a	soul	is	nothing	but	vibrations.
You	are	vibrating	in	time	and	in	yourself,	if	not	in	what	we	call	place	or	space.	So,	now
have	the	vibration	in	time	and	place.	You	can	have	also	vibration	in	yourself,	in	the
kingdom	of	the	heavens	which	is	in	yourself.
Now,	what	are	these	kinds	of	vibrations?	Kinds	of	vibrations	to	the	outer	world	is	in	one
direction,	but	these	vibrations	which	are	the	vibrations	of	yourself	now	as	a	soul	and
being	spirit	is	towards	all	directions	and	back	again.	You	will	not	be	able	to	understand
that	 unless	 you	 experience	 that.	 Now,	 these	 kinds	 of	 vibrations	 of	 your	 present
personality	is	giving	you	the	impression	through	the	five	senses,	seeing,	you	are	seeing
things.
How	you	are	seeing	things?	First	of	all,	you	understand	the	existence	of	things	by	seeing
things,	again	through	the	third	temple	of	your	material	body,	through	what	I	call	the
imprinting	 ether.	 So,	 you	 understand	 things,	 but	 you	 receive	 through	 the	 light	 the
impressions	from	a	certain	distance	from	yourself.	You	simply	interpret	these	vibrations,
these	frequency	of	vibrations	you	call	ether	and	sight	somewhere	in	a	place	of	your
material	brains.
You	have	given	these	lessons	before.	You	see	a	lovely	tree	full	of	fruit,	flowers,	birds
flying	in	it.	When	you	go	away	from	it	to	some	distance,	you	will	see	it	smaller,	with	less
details	on	it.
You	go	far	away,	you	see	just	like	a	greenish	spot	there.	You	will	not	even	say	if	it	is	a

tree	or	something	else,	but	it	will	give	you	strong	lenses,	a	telescope,	seeing,	you	will
see	as	if	it	is	very	near	you.	You	can	see	the	flowers	and	the	fruit	in	it,	even	the	birds	in
the	branches.
Yet,	it	is	very	far	from	you.	But	you	can	see	it	in	the	same	way	as	you	will	see	it	if	you
are	there,	which	means	seeing,	you	are	just	interpreting	these	etheric	vibrations,	which
you	call	ether,	carrying	in	it	the	surface	of	anything.	It	is	striking	and	reflected	from	it.
This	is	the	conclusion.	The	sight	of	your	soul	being	is	not	like	that.	You	can	be	anywhere
and	see	everywhere	and	receive	impressions	from	everywhere.
Now	consider	these	two	kinds	of	seeing,	conceiving	and	understanding.	I	speak	to	you	of
my	own	experiences.	The	human	being	now	sees	through	my	eyes,	because	I	can	see
much	better	than	anybody	else	can	see,	though	my	material	eyes	are	not	so	good	now.
Never	mind,	but	I	can	see.	When	I	was	operated	and	I	came	out	of	my	body,	I	could	hear
the	doctor	talking.	I	could	see	him	working	from	where?	Above,	from	every	side,	from
inside,	seeing	what	he	was	doing,	knowing	everything	he	was	doing.
What	kind	of	seeing	is	that?	Something	else.	I	could	magnify	things	if	I	wanted	to	see
them	bigger,	which	is	an	ability	of	the	soul	consciousness.	Could	I	feel	my	material	body?
Now	this	is	the	most	important	point.
If	I	wanted	to,	I	could.	But	why	should	I	feel	the	pain?	How?	By	just	putting	in	my	material
body,	that	part	of	my	etheric	double,	I	am	calling	it	aesthetic	ether.	But	the	injections,	or
some	other	way,	are	driving	away	from	the	material	body,	not	the	etheric	double,	but
that	quality	of	the	etheric	double,	which	is	what	we	call	aesthetic	ether,	or	feeling,	giving
ether.
Because	if	the	etheric	double	gets	out	of	the	material	body	as	creative	ether,	then	the
material	body	starts	decaying,	dying.	So	never	the	etheric	double	can	leave	the	material
body,	but	certain	qualities	of	the	etheric	double	can	withdraw	and	come	back	again.	The
kinetic	ether	can	go	out	and	come	back	again.
The	aesthetic	or	feeling	ether	can	go	out	and	come	back	again.	The	imprinting	ether.
When	the	imprinting	ether	was	in	reality	in	the	etheric	double	and	in	the	personality?
Unless	you	use	it	yourself.
But	it	needs	deep	thought	to	understand	these	differences.	And	the	creative	ether	is
never	leaving	the	material	body.	So	the	etheric	double	is	the	creative	ether,	used	by	the
Holy	Spirit,	the	Locusts,	and	the	Archangels.
Now,	seeing.	Compare	the	seeing	through	the	two	eyes,	just	interpreting	vibrations	of
light	 giving	 certain	 sensations	 in	 the	 centers	 of	 the	 material	 brain	 where	 there	 is
darkness	there.	It	is	just	a	branch	of	study	that	is	most,	most	interesting.

But	 now	 consider	 what	 is	 the	 seeing.	 My	 own	 experiences	 I	 taught	 you.	 Out	 of	 the
material	body,	seeing	the	doctor	operating	my	body,	taking	things	out	in	bowels	with	salt
water	or	something	like	that.
Not	seeing	from	above,	but	from	every	side,	inside,	in	my	own	bowels.	What	is	this	kind
of	sight?	Much	bigger.	Better.
So,	who	is	seeing?	The	etheric	double	or	me?	Is	seeing	a	product	of	what	I	call	life	in	the
material	body	or	my	own	divine	nature	in	seeing?	Maybe	you	say	both.	To	some	extent,
yes,	but	if	you	develop	your	self-consciousness	higher,	then	you	see	that	it's	you	and	not
the	qualities	of	the	mind,	even	as	vitality.	Now	returning	to	our	etheric	double.
The	etheric	double	is	the	workshop	of	the	Archangels	in	building	and	sustaining	the
material	body.	Molecule	by	molecule,	organ,	everything.	It	is	the	workshop.
It	 is	 also	 the	 center	 to	 the	 personality	 of	 what	 I	 call	 the	 subconsciousness,	 the
argumentor,	just	to	study	the	nature	of	the	subconsciousness.