

Daskalos	-	1991	09	17	Purifying	Fires
A	discourse	by	Dr.	Stylianos	Ateslis,	known	as	Daskalos.	The	identical	thing	that	we	now
call	Christian	religion	existed	among	the	ancients	and	has	not	been	lacking	of	the	human
race,	leading	up	to	the	coming	of	Christ	in	the	flesh,	from	which	moment	on,	the	true
religion,	which	already	existed,	began	to	be	called	Christian.	God	who	at	sundry	times
and	in	divers	manners	spake	in	time	past	unto	the	fathers	by	the	prophets,	hath	in	these
last	days	spoken	unto	us	by	his	Son,	whom	he	hath	appointed	heir	of	all	things,	by	whom
also	he	made	the	worlds.
God	is	love,	and	he	that	dwelleth	in	love,	dwelleth	in	God,	and	God	in	him.	Absolute	truth
is	a	brilliant,	many-sided	diamond.	The	great	light	fills	this	gem,	and	colours	gleam	from
every	side.
Mystics,	messengers,	sages,	and	teachers	of	all	ages,	races,	and	beliefs	have	spoken	of
a	 different	 face	 of	 this	 common	 eternal	 truth.	 Monotheistic,	 esoteric	 Christianity	 has
been	unfolding	in	human	consciousness	since	time	immemorial,	as	a	clear	and	concise
reflection	of	the	truth.	Our	system	for	the	research	of	truth	is	devoted	to	the	esoteric
Christian	tradition.
Our	exploration	of	the	truth,	and	our	ever-increasing	conscious	engagement	in	Absolute
Beingness's	 divine	 plan,	 is	 achieved	 through	 directed	 study,	 observation,	 exercise,
prayer,	and	meditation.	Our	approach	is	methodical,	safe,	and	self-evident.	We	seek	to
embrace	the	holy	gifts,	insights,	and	revelations	bestowed	upon	us.
We	aspire	to	understand	and	attune	ourselves	with	the	divine	laws,	forms,	principles,
and	 causes	 governing	 life.	 We	 work	 in	 love's	 name,	 patiently	 and	 harmoniously.	 We
value	the	balanced	development	and	integration	of	our	entire	being,	as	we	cultivate	our
emotional,	moral,	spiritual,	and	mystical	aspects.
Dr.	 Stylianos	 Attaslis,	 popularly	 known	 as	 Daskalos,	 has	 been	 teaching	 esoteric
Christianity	and	healing	for	over	70	years.	In	the	late	1980s,	Daskalos,	having	lived	a
deliberately	 quiet	 existence,	 gained	 worldwide	 attention	 resulting	 from	 a	 number	 of
publications	 describing	 his	 work	 and	 life.	 It	 was	 not	 long	 after	 that	 seekers	 from	 the
world	 over	 began	 arriving	 in	 Strovolos,	 Cyprus,	 to	 learn	 more	 of	 what	 Daskalos	 was
teaching.
Daskalos	began	conducting	public	lessons	in	the	Stoa	to	guide	the	arrivals.	Our	Father,
who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come.
Thy	will	be	done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread	and	forgive
us	our	transgressions	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.	And	lead	us
not	into	temptation	but	deliver	us	from	evil.

For	 thine	 is	 the	 kingdom	 and	 the	 power	 and	 the	 glory	 forever.	 Absolute,	 infinite
beingness,	God.	Everlasting	life,	love	and	mercy.
Manifesting	yourself	in	yourself	as	the	total	wisdom	and	the	all-mightiness.	Enlighten	our
minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.	Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you
and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	Again,	a	repetition	for	the	newcomers.	God	is	always,	eternally,	is	what	we	call
the	absolute,	infinite	beingness.
Nobody	 can	 deny	 this	 beingness.	 God.	 And	 this	 absolute,	 infinite	 beingness	 has	 its
multiplicity.
The	nature	of	this	absolute	beingness	is,	of	course,	self-sufficiency.	But	also,	we	see	the
real	pleasure	to	express,	to	manifest	itself,	where?	In	itself.	Since	this	absolute	beingness
is	everywhere.
So,	starting	raising	our	consciousness	to	high	levels,	we	see	that	this	absolute	beingness,
to	express	the	Will,	it	means	it	expresses	a	kind	of	absolute,	infinite	self.	It's	one	proof.
The	expression	shows	that	this	absolute	beingness	expresses	what	we	call	self.
That	means	it	knows	what	it	is	doing,	since	it	expresses	itself	as	the	total	wisdom.	And
we	 see	 that	 in	 the	 absolute	 beingness,	 in	 its	 multiplicity,	 every	 being	 now	 has	 this
quality,	having	its	expression	as	a	self.	You	have	the	archangelic	self-consciousness.
And	we	know	our	self-consciousness	in	the	various	degrees.	Of	course,	the	archangelic
self-consciousness	is	different	from	our	self-consciousness.	Can	we	know	anything	about
this	archangelic	self-consciousness?	Of	course.
If	 one	 succeeds	 to	 raise	 his	 personal,	 now,	 self-consciousness	 to	 the	 highest	 levels,
which	we	call	self-super-consciousness,	he	can	come	in	self-conscious	contact	with	any
archangel	of	any	order.	And	by	expressing	itself	as	attunement,	that	fellow	knows	now,
by	his	own	personal	experience,	what	is	the	archangelic	self-consciousness.	Because	in
reality	our	spirit	soul	is	an	archangel.
Not	different	from	them.	Now,	by	attunement	later,	he	knows	much,	much	more.	Now,
we	stated	what	is.
It	is	the	everlasting	life.	There	was	never	a	time	that	life	as	a	manifestation	of	the	total
wisdom	of	God	didn't	exist.	Didn't	exist.
Which	 means	 expressed	 in	 the	 world	 of	 existence.	 From	 the	 world	 of	 beingness	 to
different	states	now.	The	world	of	beingness,	which	is	everlasting,	eternal,	we	can	know
something,	 raising	 our	 consciousness	 to	 highest	 levels,	 but	 there	 are	 not	 words	 to
express	what	we	can	get	as	a	personal	experience.

Now,	what	we	get	as	experience?	Anything	we	can	get	in	the	world	of	existence.	And	the
world	of	existence	starts	with	the	mind.	Because	we	said	yesterday,	nothing	which	exists
is	not	the	mind.
And	then	we	said,	the	mind	is	the	first	manifestation	and	expression	of	the	total	wisdom
of	the	infinite	beingness,	in	its	almightiness.	So	from	the	very	first	moment,	the	absolute
infinite	beingness,	or	any	other	being,	archangelic	being,	expresses	itself	to	manifest,
from	 that	 moment,	 the	 mind	 is	 emanated	 from	 that	 being,	 as	 it	 emanates	 from	 the
absolute	beingness,	God.	Now,	we	have	the	world	of	existence,	which	is	a	manifestation,
and	to	be	manifested,	it's	necessary	for	the	absolute	beingness	and	the	beings	to	use
what	we	call	mind,	the	mind.
Now,	the	mind	is	not	a	handful	of	earth	which	is	in	the	skull.	These	are	the	brains.	The
mind	is	everywhere.
You	can	contact	the	mind	as	super	substance,	formless,	we	said	yesterday.	Much	cannot
be	said	just	about	this	super	substance	of	the	mind.	There	are	no	words	to	express	it.
The	only	thing	we	can	say	is	that	the	total	wisdom	of	the	almightiness	is	there.	As	what?
As	the	laws,	as	the	causes,	the	ideas,	and	many	other	qualities	of	the	infinite	beingness,
and	of	the	holy	archangels,	we	cannot	define	as	human	beings.	Then	we	see	that	this	is
the	source,	cause	of	what?	Of	the	manifestation	of	the	total	wisdom	of	God,	which	are
now	the	forms.
So,	 these	 forms	 are	 now	 in	 what	 we	 call	 the	 noetical	 world.	 Now,	 we	 see	 this	 total
wisdom	of	God	not	yet	manifested	or	described	as	the	cause.	The	laws	now	projecting
what	we	call	the	forms.
Now,	what	are	the	forms?	Billions	and	billions	of	forms,	of	living	forms,	of	the	phenomena
of	life.	Just	another	subject	for	study.	And	see	to	study.
And	by	studying	that	form,	we	can	reach	to	the	conclusion	that	this	absolute	beingness,
and	 the	 beings	 expressing	 themselves	 creatively,	 in	 the	 words	 of	 the	 existence,	 are
expressing	the	total	wisdom.	As	I	said,	the	total	wisdom	is	what	we	call	the	circles	of
possibilities,	which	are	laws,	causes,	which	can	never	be	violated.	So,	using	the	mind
now,	as	a	reasoning,	we	can	study	just	this	phenomenon	of	life.
The	living	forms	all	around	us	in	the	material	plane.	But	the	material	plane	is	not	the
only	plane.	We	have	the	living	forms.
We	have	the	living	forms	in	the	psychical	planes.	We	have	the	living	forms	in	the	noetical
plane.	Do	we	have	the	living	forms	in	the	noetic	plane?	No.
It	is	not	the	forms.	It	is	the	causes	of	the	forms.	It	is	the	ideas.

But	now,	what	is	the	relation	between	the	ideas	and	the	forms?	It	is	another	subject,
very,	 very	 difficult	 to	 deal	 with.	 To	 write	 about	 it?	 I'm	 telling	 you	 that	 it	 would	 be
impossible.	To	speak	about	it?	Again,	it	would	be	very	difficult	or	impossible.
To	know	it?	It	is	difficult,	but	not	impossible.	But	you	must	raise	your	self-consciousness
to	the	highest	levels	of	self-consciousness	to	live	this	reality.	By	living	this	reality,	you
can	only	mention	that	the	laws	of	causes,	called	ideas,	are	and	exist	as	forms.
They	are	eternally	as	laws,	and	they	are	reflecting.	They	exist	as	forms.	So,	one	can	get
such	 experiences,	 but	 nobody	 has	 words	 in	 any	 language	 to	 speak	 about	 them	 and
express	them.
So,	we	see	now	the	mind	as	super-substance.	The	word	of	the	ideas,	the	causes,	the
laws.	And	now	we	see,	more	tangible	now,	the	word	of	the	forms	as	substance.
Then	we	see	them	having	in	them,	all	the	forms,	the	instinct	of	living,	of	prolonging	their
existence,	which	is	an	emotion.	Now,	we	see	the	forms	in	the	psychical	world.	What	is
the	instinct	of	survival?	Just	that.
That	 feeling,	 that	 desire,	 prolonging	 the	 life.	 Now,	 we	 have	 the	 living	 form	 now,	 the
material	 plane,	 the	 material	 world.	 What	 is	 a	 human	 being	 now?	 A	 living	 form,	 a
phenomenon	of	life.
But	our	bodies	are	living.	Our	personality	is	living.	But	is	it	only	living,	or	is	it	life	itself?
We	have	to	separate	now	these	two	expressions,	living	and	life.
So,	by	deep	study,	meditation,	contemplation,	all	that,	we	come	to	the	conclusion	that
our	bodies	are	not	ourselves.	Because	what	is	it	that	we	call	ourselves	now?	The	time
and	place	with	circumstances,	personality.	So	we	express,	all	of	us,	through	our	material
body,	a	personality.
Mary	and	George,	but	as	a	personality,	what	do	we	know	of	the	body?	Nothing,	nearly
nothing.	Now,	the	orthodox	society	tries	to	investigate	the	organs,	the	functioning	of	the
organs,	the	functioning	of	the	body,	and	all	that.	Of	course,	the	seeker	of	the	truth,	in	his
meditation,	in	his	deep	study,	knows	much	more	than	what	the	orthodox	science	knows
now.
But	the	orthodox	science	will	reach	that	point	sometime.	And	then	what	do	we	know?
That	 certain	 intelligences,	 we	 call	 them	 archangels,	 belonging	 to	 certain	 archangelic
orders,	are	expressing	themselves	creatively,	building	up,	through	the	total	wisdom	of
God,	 and	 having	 as	 their	 model	 the	 world	 of	 the	 ideas.	 The	 foreman,	 the	 idea	 of	 the
heavenly	man,	they	build	bodies,	they	build	living	forms,	all	around	us.
Now,	now	there	are	plenty	of	these	living	forms	around	us.	The	orthodox	science	is	doing
it	 already,	 trying	 to	 investigate	 what	 are	 these	 living	 forms	 as	 trees,	 flowers,	 plants,

animals.	They	have	to	learn	more,	still	more,	just	to	approach	the	relative	truth	about	it.
Now,	 God,	 the	 seeker	 of	 the	 truth,	 now,	 aims	 at	 to	 know	 what	 it	 concerns	 him,	 as	 a
human	being.	What	are	my,	are	my	the	bodies?	Knowing	very	little	about	them,	or	nearly
nothing.	An	illiterate	man	knows	nothing	about	his	body,	simply,	subconsciously	using	it,
by	walking	and	manifesting	its	petty	little	personality	through	the	body.
What	does	he	know	about	the	circulation	of	the	blood?	About	the	work	of	the	brains?	And
even	 the	 scientists,	 what	 do	 they	 know	 about	 the	 working	 of	 the	 brain?	 The	 glands?
There	are	so	many,	many	things,	yet,	science	to	discover.	Yet,	even	an	illiterate	man,
who	doesn't	know	anything,	lives	in	a	very	healthy	body.	Much	healthier	than	our	body,
maybe.
Who's	functioning	in	that	body?	Keeping	it	in	good	order.	Keeping	all	the	organs	in	the
body	 of	 that	 man,	 laborer,	 maybe,	 in	 good	 order.	 So,	 the	 seeker	 of	 the	 truth	 tries	 to
investigate	and	know	how,	coming	by	deep	meditation	and	observation,	in	contact	with
the	archangels	of	the	elements,	who	are	ready	to	reveal	their	secrets	to	that	intelligent
one,	as	a	personality,	who	wants	to	know.
Christ	said,	knock	and	it	will	open	to	you.	Seeker,	you	shall	find.	That's	clear.
But,	therefore,	it	should	be	done	by	the	personality	to	reach	this	level.	Now,	as	I	said
before,	the	bodies	are	living.	And	when	I	say	the	bodies,	I	mean	the	material	body,	the
psychical	body,	the	neurotic	body,	and	the	etheric	doubles.
They	are	living.	It	is	the	work	of	the	holy	archangels,	the	lords	of	the	elements.	They
have	their	own	life,	the	bodies,	independent	completely	from	the	life	of	the	personality,
expressed	through	them,	and	living	in	them.
Is	the	personality	of	a	man	the	product	of	the	bodies?	No.	Because	the	bodies,	they	are
very	similar.	Yet	the	personalities	of	people	are	very	different.
You	are	from	the	other.	You	can	never	find	two	people,	even	in	the	same	family,	even	as
twins,	 to	 have	 the	 same	 personality.	 So	 now	 we	 have	 to	 study	 the	 personality,	 our
personality.
What	is	that	personality	now?	To	start	with	studying.	Because	at	the	beginning	it	is	very
difficult	to	just	understand	much.	But	raising	the	consciousness	of	your	personality,	you
can	understand,	find	at	least	the	qualities	of	your	personality.
What	are	the	qualities?	But	to	be	a	personality,	it	means	using	the	mind.	Because	the
animals,	 which	 cannot	 use	 the	 mind,	 they	 don't	 express	 any	 personality.	 So	 just	 this,
only	that	a	human	being	expresses	a	personality,	is	leading	us	to	the	conclusion	that	this
self-personality	is	God.

But	what	kind	of	personality	do	we	create	in	the	material	world?	These	are	things	we
should	be	studying.	I	said	studying	two	people.	You	never	find	two	people	similar.
Because	they	don't	use	the	mind,	all	of	them	in	the	same	way.	And	how	do	they	use	the
mind?	How	do	people	use	the	mind?	First,	very	little,	a	super-consciousness.	As	noetic
super-substance.
Formless.	Very	little	they	use	it.	I	mean	common	people.
As	 substance,	 as	 noetical	 substance.	 Because	 there	 you	 have	 to	 study	 the	 nature	 of
things	and	reasoning	the	proper	use	of	the	mind.	Few	are	doing	it.
And	there	in	the	noetical	is	the	purified	personality.	Now,	everybody	is	using	that	kind	of
subconsciousness	 in	 the	 psychical	 plane.	 Because	 really,	 the	 psychical	 plane,	 the	 so-
called	psychical	plane,	having	nothing	to	do	with	the	psyche	or	the	soul.
But	because	we	are	expressing	emotions,	that's	why	they	call	it	psychical	plane.	So,	in
this,	 is	 the	 seat	 of	 the	 personality.	 Because	 it	 is	 the	 place	 of	 the	 emotions	 and	 the
desires.
So,	our	personality	is	mainly	in	the	psychical	plane,	living	in	the	material	body,	through
the	etheric	double	of	the	material	body.	That's	why	the	personality	of	a	man	knows	very,
very	little	about	the	material	body.	Because	in	reality	you	are	not	living	in	the	material
body	self-consciously.
Who	is	living	self-consciously	in	the	material	body?	Unless	he	is	a	seeker	of	the	truth,
who	practices	studying,	trying,	by	exercises,	to	understand	his	psychical	body.	Usually
the	people,	nearly	all	the	people,	are	living	all	the	time	in	their	psychical	body,	which
they	don't	know.	The	other	day	I	had	a	fellow	who	told	me,	look	here	sir,	but	you	say	we
have	a	psychical	body,	the	emotional	body,	where	is	it?	I	said	to	him,	that's	you,	your
personality.
You	 are	 using	 it	 every	 moment	 subconsciously.	 You	 express	 desire,	 strong	 desire,
emotions,	 and	 all	 that,	 by	 making	 the	 mind	 slave	 of	 the	 emotion.	 I	 don't	 think	 he
understood.
He	must	attend	many,	many	lessons	before	he	will	be	able	to	understand.	So,	we	are
living	more	in	our	psychical	body	than	in	our	material	body.	But	how?	Subconsciously,
not	self-consciously.
Now	what	do	I	mean	by	subconsciously?	What	is	the	subconsciousness?	Subconsciously
means	 placing	 in	 a	 part	 of	 your	 personality	 all	 the	 experiences	 as	 a	 lesson,	 either
mistakes	or	correctly,	and	forms,	scenes,	the	scenery,	because	you	call,	I	remember	that
and	 that	 and	 that.	 What	 is	 memory?	 It	 is	 something	 you	 have	 to	 study	 and	 analyze.
Where	from	does	it	come,	memory?	So,	everything	we	see,	even	before	thinking	about

it,	 creates	 an	 element	 which	 is	 stored	 in	 our	 subconsciousness	 as	 sometimes	 part	 of
ourselves,	of	our	personality.
Because	I	said	in	a	lesson,	our	present	day	personality	is	the	sum	total	of	the	elementals
we	 have	 created	 or	 re-energized	 and	 put	 them	 in	 our	 subconsciousness.	 So,	 our
subconsciousness	is	our	personality.	And	the	quality	of	the	subconsciousness	just	is	the
quality	of	the	personality.
So,	when	a	person	now,	that	personality	of	a	man	or	a	woman	decides	to	study	itself	as
the	personality,	now	he	expresses	himself	as	the	soul	without	understanding	it.	So,	the
present	personality	has	in	itself	the	soul	which	tends	to	get	control.	It	doesn't	get	control
in	every	body.
No,	 the	 soul	 is	 waiting	 patiently.	 The	 offspring	 of	 the	 spirit	 soul,	 which	 is	 the	 present
personality,	 with	 the	 work	 of	 the	 archangels,	 especially	 of	 the	 Logos,	 is	 a	 living,	 now
being,	not	existence,	being,	because	has	in	it	the	eternity,	has	in	it	the	soul.	So,	a	human
being	is	also	the	personality.
It	is	and	it	isn't.	From	the	one	side	of	expression,	with	the	mistakes,	it	is.	But	from	the
side	of	living,	it	is.
So,	in	the	personality	of	everybody,	man	or	a	woman,	is	the	spirit	soul,	one	ray	of	it,
giving	life	to	the	personality.	Now,	the	personality,	after	getting	its	own	life,	lives	her
own	 life.	 Which	 way?	 Vibrating	 and	 being	 used	 by	 the	 so-called	 psychic	 body,	 the
emotional	body.
Now,	we	said	that	everything	is	the	mind.	As	super	substance,	substance,	super	matter
and	substance	and	matter.	Even	a	grain	of	sand	is	mind.
Everything	is	mind.	Mind	in	different	frequencies	of	vibrations.	Vibrations,	frequencies	of
vibrations.
Motion,	 what	 is	 motion?	 The	 nature	 of	 infinite	 beingness.	 Just	 the	 nature	 of	 infinite
beingness	has	in	it	the	expression,	the	will	or	motion.	Call	it	whatever	you	like.
Because	the	will	is	motion.	Now,	later	you	will	understand	what	is	motion	in	time.	Now
you	see	motion	in	space.
I	 think	 we	 entered	 again	 deep	 waters.	 Let's	 come	 up.	 So,	 we	 have	 now	 to	 study	 the
mind.
Because	it	is	through	the	mind	that	we	shall	go	to	that	conclusion	what	we	are.	Which	is,
we	are	not	again	the	mind.	But	we	are	something	beyond	the	mind.
Now,	are	we	the	form?	No.	Because	we	can	be	without	even	the	human	form.	And	one	of
the	exercises	in	the	innermost	circle	is	even	to	get	rid	of	the	human	form	and	live	in	the

formless	noetic	plane.
And	get	it	back	any	moment	we	want.	Because	we	are	gods.	Justice	proves	that	we	are
not	the	creation	of	the	mind	even	as	a	form.
But	again	we	enter	in	deep	waters.	So,	what	are	we	now?	As	Mary,	George,	and	like	that.
A	 petty	 self-personality	 created	 by	 the	 circumstances	 in	 time,	 in	 our	 times,	 and	 in	 a
certain	place	on	the	planet.
Yes,	that's	not.	That's	present	personality.	But	the	present	personality	is	a	living	form.
It	was	a	living	form	all	the	time.	Whether	one	is	called	Ashur	or	Christos.	May	be	the
same.
Ego	having	these	two	names.	So,	as	a	living	form,	a	manifestation	of	life,	we	are	the
spirit	gods.	But	now,	the	behavior	of	that	personality	is	mortal,	it's	not	everlasting.
It	is	under	the	law	of	continuous	change.	Which	again	is	the	will	of	God,	this	continuous
change.	How	shall	we	find	in	ourselves,	as	a	present	personality	now,	Mary	and	George,
what	are	we?	Are	we	double?	Yes	and	no.
Because	 when	 we	 proceed	 and	 learn,	 we	 find	 that	 we	 are	 we.	 What	 about	 our
expressions?	Now	we	speak	about	egoism.	Many	make	the	mistake	to	think	that	egoism
is	the	ego.
No!	 The	 ego	 has	 nothing	 to	 do	 with	 our	 ego.	 Yet,	 it	 is	 the	 expression	 of	 our	 present
personality.	I'll	give	an	example.
Living	example.	I	had	a	fellow	before	two	or	three	years.	He	was	a	good	man	in	nature.
Married	with	four	children.	That	fellow	had	very,	very	bad	habits.	After	finishing	from	his
work,	going	to	the	tavern,	drink,	come	near	this	and	go	back	home.
And	if	his	wife	would	tell	him	something,	beat	her.	Every	day	he	was	beating	his	wife.	He
was	beating	the	children.
Crying.	Just	making	such	a	trouble	in	the	home.	He	seemed	to	be	there.
Of	course,	everybody	didn't	like	him.	They	despised	him.	His	name	was	really	George.
We'll	use	his	real	name.	This	lasted	for	some	years.	He	expressed	a	stupid	personality.
Gambling,	 drinking,	 trying	 to	 deceive	 others.	 Circumstances	 forced	 him	 to	 do	 that.
Behaving	in	a	way	devilish.
Hated	even	by	his	wife	and	his	children.	One	day	he	came	to	me.	Told	me,	Lascale,	said,
What	is	it?	I	am	a	beast.

Said,	Who	told	you	that?	Yes,	I	am	a	beast.	No,	you	are	a	good	man.	You	are	God.
Said,	What	did	you	say?	You	are	God.	It	is	because	you	don't	know.	Of	course,	I	know
everything.
I	hear	you	shouting.	Quarreling.	But	you	are	God.
Only	you	are	the	victim	of	circumstances.	A	little	bit.	You	are	ignorant,	that's	all.
I	say	lies.	I	know	that.	It	is	not	you.
It	is	your	personality.	I	beat	my	wife.	I	know	that.
And	my	children.	But	I	love	them.	I	know	you	love	them.
In	the	one	way,	you	express	an	egoistic	personality.	In	the	other	way,	you	express	you
are	yourself	loving	them.	In	reality,	I	love	my	wife.
Of	course,	you	should	love	your	wife.	And	I	love	my	children.	Of	course,	you	love	your
children.
I	want	to	change.	I	said,	Who	told	you	that	you	should	change?	And	I	don't	know.	He
said,	You	are	a	good	self.
Do	I	have	two	selves?	The	good	self	and	the	bad	self?	No,	you	have	all	of	them,	except
the	good	self.	What	do	you	say?	As	a	bad	self?	No.	These	are	circumstances	in	creation,
just	of	illusion,	of	your	egoism.
Try	 to	 kill	 your	 egoism.	 Of	 course,	 he	 came	 to	 some	 lessons.	 In	 the	 beginning,	 he
understood	nothing.
Because	all	the	time	he	was	hearing	the	lessons,	his	mind	was	the	circumstances	he	was
living	in.	But	slowly,	slowly,	and	thanks	God	I	am	very,	very	patient,	he	came	one	day
and	told	me,	Look	here.	You	are	right.
I	am	feeling	I	am	good.	I	said,	No,	you	are	good.	He	asked	me	to	change.
All	right.	Come	to	the	lesson.	He	was	coming	to	the	lesson.
Slowly,	 slowly,	 he	 had	 changed.	 Not	 gambling	 anymore.	 Not	 drinking	 anymore	 in	 the
tavern,	except	with	a	friend,	just	a	little.
During	supper	or	dinner,	coming	early	home,	take	on	his	children	and	teach	them	their
lesson,	because	he	was	very	educated.	But	became	the	victim	of	circumstances,	of	his
egoism,	teaching	his	children.	His	wife	came	to	me	and	said,	You	know,	he	just	became
an	angel.

Oh,	 he	 was	 always	 an	 angel,	 but	 you	 didn't	 know	 it.	 He	 didn't	 know	 it	 also,	 himself.
Really.
When	he	comes	home,	speaking	gently,	now	he	is	so	tender	with	me.	Just...	No,	don't	tell
me	what	he	is	telling	you.	Yes,	he	is	very	good	and	gentle.
Yes,	he	became	a	different	person.	No,	he	was	all	the	time	George.	That's	what	I	say.
Both	ways,	we	are	we.	We	are	not	going	to	abandon	any	kind	of	self-consciousness	by
giving	 up	 a	 stupid	 egoism	 and	 giving	 up	 weaknesses,	 stupid	 desires,	 and	 stupid
emotions,	because	all	these	are	not	ourselves	in	reality.	We	make	a	mistake	to	think	that
all	these	are	ourselves.
Now,	this	fellow	is	not	in	Cyprus	now.	He	is	leading	one	of	the	best	circles	and	I	am	very
proud	of	him.	Now,	with	his	wife	and	his	elder	son,	they	are	running	a	circle	of	our	order,
which	means	there	is	no	one	who	is	evil	or	bad.
All	people	are	good	because	all	are	sons	of	God,	of	the	Almighty	Father.	This	is	the	way
you	have	to	see	everybody	around	you,	no	matter	how	that	fellow,	for	the	time	being,	is
behaving.	Stupidly,	maybe.
It	is	because	that	personality	is	in	the	ignorance	and	when	he	knows	the	reality,	nobody
can	help	you	not	becoming	good	or	expressing	your	good	self.	So,	human	beings	try	to
see	what	is	good	in	them	and	not	what	is	not	good.	So,	now,	what	is	the	personality	of	a
man?	Good	or	evil?	Who	is	the	personality	of	this	fellow?	George.
No,	it	is	not	personality.	He	has	the	word.	To	be	named	George.
Who	 is	 that	 George	 now?	 Our	 bodies	 are	 changing	 continuously.	 Our	 personality	 is
changing	continuously.	Have	that	in	your	mind.
All	desires	and	emotions	are	changing.	This	is	the	law.	What	we	call	our	thoughts	from
being	slaves	to	the	emotions	and	to	the	desires	are	freeing	themselves	because	I	mean
the	elementals,	the	good	elementals.
And	now,	they	make	our	personality	a	better	personality.	So,	come	to	the	conclusion,	our
present	day	personality	and	our	personality	at	all	times	in	the	past	and	our	personality
as	 it	 will	 be	 in	 the	 future	 will	 be,	 it	 is	 and	 will	 be	 the	 sum	 total	 of	 the	 elementals
composing	 it.	 So,	 we	 should	 see	 good	 elementals	 either	 we	 are	 recreating	 or	 we	 are
revitalizing.
Now,	stick	to	this	point.	We	will	see	good	elementals.	We	are	creating	now	or	revitalizing.
So,	we	are	not	the	sum	total	of	the	elementals	ourselves	because	we	can	choose,	come
to	conclusions	and	express	ourselves	in	a	different	way	now.	Now,	in	deep	meditation,	in
what	I	call	introspection,	looking	within,	making	the	analysis	of	the	so-called	self	of	our

personality	now,	who	is	doing	it?	We	now,	the	soul.	We	are	not	doing	it	as	the	sinful
personality.
We	get	the	control.	We	are	the	soul	now,	yes.	Are	we	now	different	to	what	we	were
before	when	we	are	considered	sinful	and	stupid?	Of	course,	not	as	the	nature	of	your
beingness.
You	are	different	in	the	expression.	That's	why	I	say,	one	has	to	annihilate	that	part	in	his
personality	 called	 egoism.	 Egoism,	 egoism	 of	 the	 present	 personality	 which	 is	 not
yourself	in	reality.
It	is	the	sum	total	of	certain	kind	of	elementals.	And	one	should	study	deeply	what	are
the	 elementals.	 Now,	 we	 said	 in	 a	 lesson,	 we	 repeated,	 by	 seeing	 something,	 even
without	thinking	of	it,	an	elemental	is	created	in	our	subconscious,	which	is	where?	In	us
and	everywhere.
What	do	you	mean	everywhere?	You	can	contact	the	subconscious	of	a	man	miles	away
only	concentrating	on	the	man,	which	means,	since	it	is	the	mind,	it	can	be	not	only
confined	in	the	material	body,	in	the	psychical	body	or	in	the	neurotic	body.	When	it	is
broadcasting,	it	spreads	out	and	any	receiving	apparatus	can	get	it.	That's	the	nature	of
the	mind	in	what	we	call	the	etheric	double.
Now,	it's	a	different	subject,	subject	to	study.	So,	now,	we	have	to	check	what	are	we	as
sum	total	of	the	elementals	composing	our	personality.	It	is	not	difficult	just	to	see	what
we	are	accustomed	of	revitalizing	as	elementals.
That	 means	 checking	 our	 emotions	 and	 that.	 That	 means	 looking	 within.	 Now,	 it's	 a
misunderstanding	again.
When	we	say	looking	within,	the	present,	the	personality,	but	that's	not	the	within,	which
is	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens,	which	is	within	us,	because	that	within	is	in	the	spirit	soul
and	not	in	the	present,	the	personality.	Yet,	we	say	within	again.	That's	within.
A	room	or	within	the	space.	It	is	what	we	mean	by	within.	So,	first,	we	must	study	what	is
within	the	present,	the	personality.
By	 introspection,	 looking,	 as	 we	 said,	 within	 and	 criticizing	 the	 behavior	 of	 our
personality.	Criticizing	the	behavior	of	the	personality.	Many	believe	to	the	reincarnation
theory,	which	I'm	telling	you,	it	is	a	fact.
It's	not	imaginary.	And	they	say,	why	don't	we	remember	previous	incarnations?	Why	did
God	 deprive	 from	 a	 man	 a	 personality,	 present	 a	 personality,	 the	 memory?	 That's	 a
divine	 mercy	 to	 give	 that	 personality	 the	 opportunity	 of	 proceeding	 forward	 and	 not
looking	 backwards.	 And	 maybe	 by	 remembering,	 it	 will	 not	 be	 possible	 for	 that
personality	to	advance,	because	there	are	weaknesses.

Now	this	personality	is	getting	slowly,	slowly	rid	of,	which	by	remembering,	it	will	come
back	again.	So,	it	is	the	wisdom	of	the	infinite	beingness	depriving	a	man	of	the	memory.
Yet,	I'm	telling	you,	when	a	man	reaches	a	certain	stage,	degree,	level	of	consciousness,
in	 which	 by	 remembering	 that	 person	 would	 not	 be	 influenced,	 definitely	 he	 will
remember.
But,	 I'm	 telling	 you,	 the	 lesson	 each	 one	 of	 you	 had	 received	 from	 all	 your	 previous
incarnations	are	within	you	now,	within	your	present	personality.	A	fellow	born	now	is
bringing	to	the	new	personality	all	the	experiences	of	the	past	personalities.	This	is	what
makes	you	different	from	the	others.
Even	two	twin	brothers	born	in	the	same	family.	So,	instead,	every	one	of	you	are	all	the
lessons	 you	 have	 received	 in	 previous	 incarnations.	 As	 predispositions,	 tendencies,
talents,	fears,	and	so	many	things.
So,	no	need	to	remember	past	incarnations.	Look	within	you,	make	a	self-analysis	of	the
present	 personality	 and	 see	 where	 you	 are	 now.	 Study	 the	 way	 you	 are	 feeling	 and
thinking	because,	instead,	everybody	are	all	the	lessons	received.
From	 that	 point	 on,	 we'll	 start	 progressing.	 Not	 necessarily	 looking	 backwards.	 When
somebody	asks	Joshua	the	Christ,	God-man,	about	the	reincarnation,	though	he	himself
stated	the	reincarnation	in	the	Gospel,	they	have	asked	him.
He	said,	look	here.	The	one,	the	farmer,	who	places	his	hands	on	the	plough	should	not
look	behind	him	hot	rocks	he	had	made	on	the	ground,	but	hot	rocks	he	is	going	to	make
now,	looking	forward.	Because	many,	reading	this	part	of	the	Gospel,	they	say,	but	who?
Why	he	said	that?	Of	course,	there	was	a	previous	talk	which	certain	clergymen	have
taken	out	from	the	Gospel.
For	what	reason?	We	don't	know.	But	even	leaving	that,	one	can	understand	what	he
meant.	So,	now,	everybody,	in	the	introspection,	should	know	he'll	be	face	to	face	with
his	subconsciousness	and	the	sum	total	of	all	his	lessons	and	experiences	from	previous
incarnations	are	there	stored.
I	 said,	 as	 fears,	 predispositions,	 tendencies,	 talents,	 hatreds,	 narrow-mindedness,
maybe,	on	certain	things.	Now,	I'll	give	an	example.	You	have	certain	experiences,	and
you	are	you,	remembering	your	name	and	your	aims,	what	you	are	doing.
Necessarily,	you	sleep	at	night.	And	most	of	you,	for	hours	maybe,	enter	in	a	state	of
nothingness.	You	don't	remember	anything.
Which	is	a	very	necessary	condition.	Next	day	you	wake	up,	and	Mary	is	Mary,	with	the
same	 desires,	 with	 the	 same	 thoughts,	 with	 the	 same	 predispositions,	 with	 the	 same
program	 in	 life.	 Why?	 You	 have	 slept	 and	 you	 entered	 in	 that	 state	 which	 is	 nearly
nothingness.

Only	 simply	 your	 material	 body	 was	 leaving	 the	 circulation	 of	 the	 blood.	 More	 slow,
breathing.	But	what	about	you	as	a	personality?	As	a	personality,	you	have	entered	a
world	of	non-existence.
But	 was	 that	 real?	 You	 woke	 up	 and	 you	 were	 you.	 The	 same	 thing	 is	 what	 you	 call
death.	As	you	pass	out	during	a	night	and	come	back	again,	no,	you	pass	out,	you	don't
need	the	body.
They	create	for	you	another	body.	You	enter	in	it,	but	you	are	you.	The	same	thoughts,
the	same	virtues,	the	same	tendencies	and	predispositions.
The	difference	now	is	that	you	don't	remember,	because	you	have	a	new	personality.
You	remember	waking	up	in	the	morning	because	you	have	the	same	personality.	So
there	is	not	any	change	in	your	personality.
So	even	as	sometimes	you	are	forgetting	and	you	have	just	to	think,	to	remember	again.
In	this	way	it	is	with	the	past	incarnation.	For	me	an	incarnation	is	a	day	at	school	only.
Nothing	more	than	that.	Just	to	learn.	To	learn	what?	Who	we	are.
What	 we	 are.	 And	 coming	 back	 home.	 For	 me	 there	 is	 much	 in	 the	 parable	 of	 the
prodigal	son.
But	of	course	this	needs	much	study	and	understanding.	What	is	behind	that?	So,	what
are	we	doing	in	each	incarnation?	This	we	have	just	to	meditate	on.	Making	all	the	time
use	of	the	mind.
But	 in	 what	 way	 we	 make	 use	 of	 the	 mind?	 In	 creating	 elementals	 composing	 our
personality.	What	kind	of	elementals?	You	have	now	to	study	the	nature	of	desire.	The
nature	of	the	emotions.
To	 study	 the	 qualities	 of	 our	 psychical	 body.	 And	 what	 influences	 All	 that	 in	 our
psychological	body	is	doing	on	whom?	On	our	present	personality	of	course.	What	an
effect	they	have	in	it.
And	now	as	a	present	personality	and	as	a	soul	also	we	get	the	decision	to	study	them.
Know	them.	Become	master	of	them.
Become	masters	of	our	emotions.	Masters	of	our	thoughts.	So,	we	understand	now	our
place	in	the	creation	and	our	difference	from	the	animals	all	around	us.
We	find	our	way	now.	So,	the	lesson	which	ought	to	be	learned	in	all	our	incarnations	is
how	to	make	good	use	of	the	mind.	Just	to	see	how	we	were	behaving	and	being	under
the	burden	of	the	law.
You	call	it	karma.	I	don't	like	this	word.	Of	course	an	effect	good	or	bad	to	correct	our

mistakes.
And	to	go	forward.	This	is	the	aim	of	an	incarnation.	God	is	giving	us	that	great	gift	we
call	the	mind.
Use	it.	The	Archangels	are	giving	us	most	graciously	the	bodies	without	asking	them	to
do	so.	And	we	are	in	these	bodies.
We	have	just	to	realize	this.	We	are	in	a	material	body	living.	And	you	have	to	think	over
this	material	body,	what	it	is.
Who	gave	it	to	me?	Who	is	looking	after	it?	Who	is	taking	care	of	it	now?	To	keep	it	in
good	health.	So,	these	are	subjects	for	study	in	deep	meditation	and	concentration	to
reach	contemplation.	So,	we	have	much	to	do	for	our	benefit.
And	we	give	so	little	time,	sometimes	no	time	at	all,	making	bad	use	of	the	mind	to	serve
our	present	personality	in	court,	in	taking	things	all	around	us,	calling	them	ours,	which
can	never	be	ours,	because	we	leave	them	when	we	go.	I	had	the	other	day	a	fellow.	He
is	very,	very	rich	now.
He	was	very,	very	poor	when	we	were	young,	both	of	us.	Because	sitting	in	the	lessons,
instead	of	just	finding	out	the	truth,	he	found	a	way	how	to	use	the	elementals	for	his
benefit	to	bring	him	material	things.	I	can't	call	him	a	black	magician,	because	he	never
has	 done	 that	 to	 harm	 anybody,	 except	 catching	 just	 a	 truth	 I	 taught	 him	 about
elementals,	 how	 to	 create	 elementals,	 how	 to	 send	 them	 to	 fulfill	 his	 desires	 and
purposes.
And	using	it	for	very	poor	man.	Now	he	is	very,	very	rich.	He	is	in	my	age.
He	 has	 four	 sons.	 His	 second	 wife,	 his	 first	 wife	 passed	 over,	 came	 to	 me.	 Oh,	 I	 am
thinking	of	you	all	the	time.
It's	a	very,	very	long	time	to	see	each	other.	Yes,	that's	true.	Yes,	you	know.
I	 said,	 what	 really	 brings	 you	 here?	 Because	 I	 know.	 He	 said,	 you	 know	 why	 you	 are
asking	 me?	 Because	 you	 should	 realize	 why	 you	 are	 here.	 Because	 you	 have	 done	 it
subconsciously.
He	said,	now	tell	me.	He	said,	because	you	are	afraid	of	death.	And	what	are	you	going
to	do	with	the	buildings	and	the	property?	You	have	just	caught	yours.
Yes,	you	are	right.	Of	course	I	am	right.	Yes,	unfortunately,	in	the	hands	of	my	sons,	who
are	not	thinking	reasonably,	they	spend	it	in	a	stupid	way.
Who	taught	you?	You	are	more	reasonable	than	your	sons.	His	sons	are	our	scientists.
Coming	back.

What	was	your	education?	Comparison	to	the	education	of	your	sons.	Why	you	come	to
this	conclusion	that	they	will	make?	Oh,	they	give	it	here	and	there.	Maybe	in	a	better
way.
Using	it	and	in	the	way	you	used	it.	Do	you	know	how	much	you	have?	In	reality,	no.	But
I	have	much.
Because	 you	 will	 care.	 Why	 you	 are	 afraid	 of	 passing	 over?	 He	 told	 me,	 are	 you	 not
afraid?	I	said,	definitely	not.	Because	I	am	going	to	this	place.
Every	moment	I	go	and	come	back.	The	difference	is	that	I	get	the	order	not	to	return	to
this	material	place.	That's	all.
Yes,	 but	 you	 lost	 so	 many	 years.	 In	 gathering	 and	 gathering	 and	 gathering	 and
gathering.	Yes.
Why	you	didn't	lot	some	to	the	banks	in	the	other	side?	Is	that	possible?	Of	course	it's
possible.	If	you	know	the	bank,	in	which	bank,	you	just	give	some	money	to	have	them	in
the	other	side.	Of	course	you	can	lot	so	much.
But	where	is	this	bank?	I	said,	inside	with	your	heart.	Give	with	love	in	your	heart.	Yes,	of
course	I	shouldn't	come	to	you.
Now	you	will	just	tell	me	to	disperse	my	property.	Take	it	with	you.	When	you	are	pious,
try	to	take	it	with	you.
I	tell	you	that	you	can	take	something	with	you.	Just	there	are	so	many	orphans,	so	many
suffering	people.	Are	you	sure	you	didn't	cause	much	suffering	to	the	others	just	getting
money?	No,	no,	don't	tell	me	that,	don't	tell	me	that,	no.
Unfortunately	I	couldn't	help	him.	Maybe	when	he	will	pass	over,	I	will	be	able	to	help
him	more	than	being	in	his	material	body.	But	he	will	not	be	away.
Maybe	I	will	go	before	him,	because	he	is	very	strong	and	hefty	like	a	bull.	Now,	look
here.	The	first	thing	we	have	to	do,	everybody,	not	only	the	seekers	of	the	truth,	what
kind	of	human	making	of	the	mind,	of	that	substance,	super	substance	of	the	mind,	God
is	entrusting	us	to	do	it.
We	can	think,	but	how	we	are	thinking?	In	which	way?	Then	we	see	and	study	the	nature
of	our	desires	and	emotions.	How	they	appear	in	us,	those	desires.	By	looking	around	us
and	seeing	and	comparing?	Yes,	that	is	the	cause.
You	will	find	it	out	in	meditation.	Don't	expect	everything	ready,	because	when	you	have
it	ready,	it	will	not	influence	you	so	much	as	to	get	it	yourself.	So,	start	by	introspection.
See	things	which	have	happened	not	in	the	far	distant	past.	And	see	your	behavior.	How

much	 influence	 has	 been	 under	 emotions,	 which	 maybe	 are	 not	 pure	 and	 good,	 and
desires.
So,	importantly,	we	have	to	enter	in	our	subconsciousness	and	study	the	condition	of	our
subconsciousness.	Many	are	afraid	to	do	it.	They	shouldn't.
They	have	to	do	it.	Now,	to	start	suffering	is	another	hypocrisy	of	your	egoism.	Because
the	egoism	now,	feeling	that	you	have	unveiled	him,	he	tries	to	pretend	that	he	repents.
That	is	egoism.	He	says,	no,	no,	no,	no.	I	am	good.
You	have	been	evil.	I	thought	I	was	you.	But	now,	what	you	are	suggesting	me	is	what	is
masochism.
Which	I	don't	know,	I	don't	want	it.	So,	importantly,	looking	in	your	subconsciousness,	no
need	to	criticize	yourself.	Just	the	state	of	things,	yes,	but	not	yourself.
Because	that	is	hypocrisy	again	of	egoism.	You	have	to	annihilate	egoism	completely.
So,	no	need	of	emotional	stupidities	as	masochism.
Now,	I	study	things	and	I	will	come	to	conclusions.	I	don't	have	time	to	waste.	This	is
what	you	need	from	the	very	beginning	in	the	introspection	or	the	self-analysis.
And	so,	you	find	out	that,	yes,	never	mind,	everybody	all	around	me	nearly	made	bad
use	of	the	mind.	I	made	bad	use	of	the	mind.	I	am	here	and	I	have	to	get	my	lesson.
And	I	get	my	lesson.	And	decide	now,	knowing	the	holiness	of	that	super	substance	of
the	mind,	we	shouldn't	make	the	past	use	of	it,	making	slave	to	the	emotions	and	to	the
desires	of	egoism,	not	of	us.	Because	egoism	presents	itself	as	yourself.
You	have	just	to	disentangle	yourself	from	the	present	personality	egoism.	Then	this	is
the	lesson	we	have	to	learn.	Each	one	has	to	learn	sooner	or	later	in	all	the	incarnations.
In	your	past	incarnations,	how	much	of	this	lesson	you	have	learned?	Why	you	should	go
back	 and	 remember	 that	 you	 have	 made	 very,	 very,	 very	 little	 progress	 in	 the	 past
incarnations?	 Yourself	 as	 personality	 and	 as	 an	 egoist	 undergoing	 pain,	 suffering	 and
many	 other	 experiences.	 So,	 we	 have,	 at	 least	 now,	 to	 learn	 more	 on	 the	 lesson	 you
have	to	learn,	which	is	check	and	know	about	our	material	body	and	the	other	bodies.
Seriously,	study	and	know.
Especially	 studying	 our	 psychical	 body	 and	 its	 expressions.	 Check	 all	 desires	 and
emotions.	Now,	desires.
Analyzing	our	desires,	what	do	we	find?	That	a	desire	was	created	by	seeing	something,
desiring	having	it,	and	seeing	that	others	have	it.	For	example,	having	a	car.	Now,	before
500	years,	Lopotikyan,	having	a	car,	he	might	have	a	mule,	a	horse,	because	he	had	not

seen	a	car,	a	modern	car.
So,	it	is	according	to	the	circumstances.	The	same	condition.	At	that	time,	that	fellow
had	the	desire	of	possessing,	owing	a	nice	horse,	a	lovely	horse.
Now,	he	wants	a	BMW.	The	desire	is	the	same.	The	object	is	different.
Now,	what	happens?	A	reasonable	person.	Do	I	need	it	really?	What	it	would	serve	me
for?	At	that	time,	he	would	think	the	same	thing.	Have	a	horse,	what	for?	So,	we	have	to
see,	if	we	need	that	something,	we	desire	having	it,	then	good.
What	are	our	conditions	today?	Do	we	have	the	means	of	having	it?	How	shall	I	obtain
these	 means	 of	 having	 it?	 Stealing?	 Killing?	 Deceiving	 other	 people?	 Working	 hard,
getting	money	to	have	it?	Well,	this	is	the	best	way.	If	we	have	just	to	fulfill	a	desire.	And
then,	seeing	that	desire	fulfilled	completely,	and	having	that	thing,	it	will	not	make	a
house,	a	car,	a	jewel,	something	like	that.
When	that	desire	is	fulfilled,	it	loses	its	value.	We	have	just	to	study	that.	And	soon	we
are	after	something	else.
And	something	else.	And	something	else.	Getting,	losing	interest	on	it.
Desiring	something	else	and	something	else,	which	means	that	desire	has	no	end.	So,
we	 have	 just	 to	 study	 now,	 in	 deep	 meditation,	 what	 is	 desire.	 Now,	 desire	 creates
elementals.
You	don't	see	these	elementals,	yet	you	are	under	their	burden.	They	make	you	suffer,
they	crush	you	sometimes.	So,	studying	now	the	nature	of	the	elementals,	because	a
clairvoyant	can	see	them.
A	plain	person	cannot	see	them,	but	a	clairvoyant,	a	seer,	can	see	them.	They	tell	you,
they	are	terrible	sometimes.	So,	you	have	to	study	the	nature	of	desire.
Then	we	shall	start	studying	the	nature	of	our	emotions.	This	is	the	most	serious	thing.
This	was	the	plan	that	most	of	you	have	done	during	all	your	incarnations.
What	was	it?	The	desire	of	possessiveness.	You	are	having	the	desire	of	possessiveness,
and	possessing	material	things.	Well,	it	was	enslaving	desire.
But	 what	 about	 the	 desire	 of	 possessing	 living	 people?	 My	 wife,	 my	 children,	 my
husband,	I	own	him.	Why	should	he	want	us?	No,	he	shouldn't	do	that.	He	should	do
what	I	want.
This	 is	 what	 we	 find	 everywhere	 in	 all	 nations	 now.	 The	 stupidity	 of	 the	 desire	 of
possessing	living	persons.	You	have	jealousies,	quarrels,	beatings,	divorces,	and	people
suffering.

The	children	are	coming	to	the	world.	Now,	the	children.	You	think	they	are	your	own.
You	 are	 mistaken.	 It	 is	 not	 the	 love,	 the	 sexual	 intercourse,	 which	 gives	 the	 children,
because	many	can	do	that	and	have	no	children.	God	is	giving	me	children.
So,	they	are	not	yours.	They	are	entrusted	to	you.	They	are	not	your	property.
You	have	just	to	understand	them,	understand	your	responsibility,	and	teach	them	how
they	should	live	a	proper	life,	instead	of	dominating	over	them.	The	first	thing	that	we
should	just	understand	is	freedom	of	thought	for	everybody.	Freedom	is	the	gift	given	by
God	to	man.
How	to	understand	what	is	freedom?	So,	I	gave	you	certain	hints	on	how	to	use	the	mind
as	 thought.	 How	 to	 use	 the	 mind	 in	 checking	 desires	 and	 emotions.	 We	 can	 talk	 for
months	without	exhausting	this	subject.
You	 have	 to	 study	 your	 own	 case.	 See	 within	 you,	 in	 your	 subconsciousness,	 the
condition	of	your	subconsciousness,	what	you	call	desire,	emotions,	and	the	storing	up	of
these	elements	in	dirty	and	bad-smelling	mud,	which	are	weaknesses,	such	as	hatred,
envy,	enmity,	the	feeling	of	taking	revenge,	and	all	that.	In	introspection	or	self-analysis,
each	one	has	to	study	and	take	away	from	that	great	devil	in	the	personality,	which	is
the	feeling	of	being	wounded	and	offended.
That's	a	devil,	presenting	itself	as	dignity.	Being	offended.	Why	they	said	that,	and	that,
and	that,	and	that?	And	you	feel	offended.
Why?	Why	you	feel	offended?	Each	person	is	expressing	his	own	thoughts,	good	or	evil,
stupid	or	dirty.	Let	him	do	that.	Why	you	are	offended?	Because	he	mentions	your	name.
So	the	feeling	of	being	offended	is	the	worst	devil,	torturing	people,	even	persuading
people	to	kill	in	the	past,	because	creating	duels	and	killing.	You	have	offended.	Now,	we
have	to	free	our	present-day	personality	from	certain	stupid	illusions.
Another	illusion	is	fanaticism.	There	are	so	many,	so	many	things	you	will	find	to	correct
in	the	introspection	or	looking	within.	And	the	aim	of	it,	make	now	good	use	of	reason,	of
the	mind	as	a	reason,	to	control	all	the	circumstances,	the	desires,	and	the	emotions.
And	free	yourself	from	egoism.	Understand	that	you	are	not	the	bodies,	you	are	not	the
emotions,	you	are	not	the	thoughts.	Because	you	can	master	them,	control	them,	and
live	free.
Now,	the	best	thing	given	you	after	this	meditation	is	that	you	are	not	the	mind.	After	all,
becoming	 masters	 of	 the	 mind,	 you	 understand	 that	 you	 are	 not	 the	 mind.	 You	 are
something	else.
What	you	are,	we	said,	the	spirit	soul.	What	is	the	spirit	soul?	You	have	to	find	out.	That's

you.
Yeah.	I	think	this	general	lesson	is	showing	you	the	way.	Instead	of	scrubbing	my	face,	I
would	prefer	that	you	will	get	good.
I	am	teaching.	That	is	much	better.	Copyright	©	2020	Mooji	Media	Ltd.
All	Rights	Reserved.