

Daskalos-Mar-17-1992-A-Watch-and-Pray
Our	Father	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	not	into	temptation,	but	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom,	and
the	power,	and	the	glory,	forever.	Absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.
Everlasting	life,	love,	and	mercy.	Manifesting	thyself	in	yourself	as	your	total	wisdom,
and	as	your	almightiness.	Enlighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.
Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you,	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	This	lesson	today	is	most	important.
Everybody	must	do	his	best	to	understand	because	this	is	our	life	on	the	planet.	This	was
the	life	of	all	human	beings	at	all	times	on	the	planet.	And	this	will	be	also	the	life	of	all
human	beings	in	future	on	the	planet.
Which	is,	once	a	human	being	finds	himself	or	herself	on	this	planet,	is	born	as	a	human
being,	in	starting	its	circle	of	possibilities	to	express	it,	the	first	thing	to	do	is	to	develop
what	we	say	a	personality.	This	personality	is	a	kind	of	self,	shadow	of	the	proper	and
real	self,	of	our	spirit,	soul,	ego,	but	still	a	self.	But	how	that	kind	of	self,	I	mean	the
personality,	will	be	formed?	This	is	the	lesson	today.
We	said	in	previous	lesson	that	what	is,	eternally,	is	the	everlasting	life,	and	in	the
human	being	is	its	spirit,	soul,	ego.	Our	real	nature,	our	real	self,	our	selfhood,	our	I-ness
is	eternal.	It's	eternal	life.
God.	 But,	 now	 microcosmically	 again,	 in	 the	 creation	 of	 a	 human	 being,	 because	 a
human	being	is	a	creation,	it's	something	to	exist	in	the	world	of	existence,	in	what	we
say	time	and	place,	space.	So	that	creation,	the	human	being,	definitely	must	develop	a
shadow	of	its	real	self,	a	shadow	of	the	selfhood,	that	means	the	self	of	the	present	day
personality.
But	how	this	self	will	be	composed?	How	this	personality	of	a	man	is	to	be	built?	Now,
the	material	body,	we	said	in	a	lesson	that	all	the	material	bodies	of	human	beings,	male
or	female,	are	the	same.	Not,	I	mean,	in	the	kilos,	but	they	are	the	same.	But	the
personalities	of	two	people	are	never	the	same.
Of	course,	the	material	body	is	built	up	by	the	holy	archangels	of	the	elements	of	that
kind	of	mind	we	call	solid	mind	or	matter.	It	is	well,	very	well	under	the	control	of	these
archangels,	our	brothers,	the	lords	of	the	elements.	We	study	that	also	to	know	things.
But	now,	what	concerns	our	present	day	personality?	From	what	material	or	stuff	this

present	day	personality	is	built	up?	This	is	what	we	shall	see	today.	Now,	we	said	again
in	previous	lessons	that	what	is	this	everlasting	life?	God,	the	absolute	infinite	beingness
in	its	self-sufficiency.	Yet	we	see	in	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	the	will	pleasure	of
expressing	itself	in	itself.
And	we	said	in	the	lessons	that	in	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	there	are	billions	and
billions	beyond	number	beings,	which	are	the	archangels	or	the	archangelic	orders.	And,
of	course,	these	archangels,	the	archangelic	orders,	are	similar	to	the	absolute	infinite
beingness	in	the	self-sufficiency	and	in	dealing	with	their	own	nature,	which	is	the	total
wisdom,	total	wisdom,	the	characteristics	of	the	absolute	infinite	beingness.	But	now
they	have	to	express	themselves	expressing	the	will	pleasure	of	the	infinite	beingness
and,	of	course,	their	own	will	pleasure	of	expressing	themselves	in	groups	as	the	Logos
and	individually	now	to	work	on	their	own	nature	of	building	up,	getting	their	place	in
what	we	call	Lords	of	the	Elements.
So,	to	do	that,	we	said,	they	have	to	use	the	mind,	because	from	the	very	first	moment
of	the	expression,	that	very	first	moment	was	always	and	will	be	always,	expresses	the
will	pleasure	of	expressing	himself,	manifesting	himself	in	himself,	the	absolute	infinite
beingness	and	the	beings,	from	them	emanates	the	mind.	Now,	what	is	this	mind	in	its
purity?	It's	not	easy	to	understand,	but	we	can	trace	it	after	we	see	it	vibrating	in	lower
frequencies	of	vibration.	And	we	see	this	mind	now,	from	which	mind	all	the	universes
are	built	up,	are	made,	by	the	Holy	Archangels.
So,	we	have	the	Kreatos	and	the	Creation.	We	have	these	two	things.	So,	the	Holy
Archangels	expressing	their	will	pleasure	in	creating,	using	now	the	mind,	are	creating,
using	again	the	total	wisdom,	but	now	in	creating,	they	will	express	their	all-mightiness,
which	means	nothing	can	escape	from	their	attention	and	their	control.
So,	we	can	trace	the	all-mightiness	in	the	time	of	the	expression	of	the	creationism	of
these	 beings.	 So,	 using	 the	 mind	 in	 all	 the	 states	 and	 modes	 of	 its	 beingness	 and
existence,	they	are	building	the	universes.	How	many?	Many.
But	we	can	know	only	the	seven	heavens	as	human	intelligence.	We	cannot	go	further
than	the	seven	heavens	or	the	seven	dimensions.	And	there	are	many,	many	more.
Maybe	the	Archangels	understand	things	in	a	different	way.	In	a	better	way,	I	might	say.
You	say,	why	in	a	better	way?	We	are	Archangels,	we	are	also	spirit,	soul,	ego	beings	as
they	are.
Why	better?	Because	we	have	entered	in	the	world	of	separateness.	Why?	They	haven't.
They	 are	 at	 the	 same	 of	 expressing	 their	 creationism	 in	 oneness	 with	 the	 Absolute
Definite	Beingness.
This	is	the	difference	that	maybe	they	can	see	things,	understand	things	better	than	the

human	being.	The	world	of	separateness	is	drawing	our	attention.	And	I	tell	you,	as
human	beings	are	living	now	on	the	planet,	in	all	places	of	the	world,	civilized	or	not,	are
attracted	in	the	world	of	separateness	by	what	I	call	the	outside	world,	integration.
And	only	on	the	material	plane,	because	people	know	very	little	about	what	I	say,	the
ethereal	world,	the	psychical	world,	and	the	ethical	world	for	the	time	being.	I	mean	the
common	people.	So,	even	so,	their	attention	is	in	the	world	of	separateness.
This	is	making	the	human	beings	not	understand	clearly	the	reality,	the	truth.	But	in
developing	their	self-consciousness,	and	self-consciousness,	now	I	mean	the	self	of	the
present	personality	after	assimilating	itself	with	the	higher	self	and	reaching	the	highest
states	of	the	self-super-consciousness,	of	course	they	are	equal	to	the	Archangels.	They
are	not	in	any	other	difference.
But	 what	 about	 the	 common	 people	 now	 around	 us?	 They	 are	 too	 much	 attracted
through	the	five	senses	and	mainly	the	sight,	by	things	and	conditions	of	the	outside
world,	the	material,	the	cross-material	plane.	Why?	They	have	to	learn	a	certain	lesson
to	become	masters	of	matter,	which	they	haven't	learned	yet.	So,	we	know	that	the	mind
can	be	traced	as	a	formless	super-substance.
It	can	be	traced	and	be	used	now,	even	as	a	formless	super-substance	by	the	holy
Archangels	in	their	creationism	and	by	us	sometimes,	the	human	beings.	It	can	be	traced
and	be	used	as	substance,	as	what	I	would	say,	our	emotional	nature	can	be	used,
traced	and	be	used	also,	as	energy,	vitality,	the	energy	carrying	the	sense	of	life,	which
is	the	ethereal	world,	it's	our	etheric	double,	and	can	be	seen	and	studied	as	matter.	It	is
the	cross-material	world	all	around	us	and	our	cross-material	body.
And	 I	 say	 and	 repeat,	 everything	 is	 matter-mind,	 what	 we	 can	 see	 and	 trace,	 and
everything	 invisible	 now,	 in	 the	 other	 worlds,	 is	 again	 mind,	 in	 different	 rates	 of
frequencies	or	vibrations.	So,	we	can	trace	and	know	the	work	of	the	Archangels	in	the
universes,	in	all	the	worlds	of	the	various	dimensions.	The	material	world	is	the	world	of
the	three	dimensions.
The	psychical	world,	worlds	rather,	are	worlds	of	the	four	dimensions.	The	noetical	world
and	the	worlds	are	worlds	of	the	five	dimensions.	The	noetic	world	is	the	world	of	the	six
dimensions.
And	you	have	another	one,	which	is	not	for	the	common	people.	It	is	for	the	enlightened
ones,	to	enter,	know,	live,	enjoy	the	splendor	of	this	heaven	or	this	world,	yet	coming
back	cannot	bring	to	you	anything	of	that	splendor.	There	are	no	words	to	give	any
description.
So,	this	is	the	mind.	In	all	its	modes	of	beingness	and	of	existence.	So,	we	can	know	the
work	of	the	Archangels.

We	can	come	in	contact	with	the	Lords	of	the	elements,	the	various	Archangelic	Orders.
But	what	really	concerns	us	is	to	study,	understand,	and	know	our	real	nature	as	human
beings.	What	are	we	as	human	beings?	You	have	a	material	body.
Good.	That	we	know.	We	touch	it.
We	move	it	about	here	or	there,	and	we	move	our	hands,	and	with	our	hands	and	other
members	of	the	body,	we	can	get	and	acquire	certain	skills.	Marvelous	work	to	be	done.
To	work	in	a	marvelous	way.
Good.	But	that's	not	all.	This	is	work	in	time	and	place.
I	 mean,	 in	 the	 outside	 world,	 the	 physical,	 material	 world,	 or	 the	 skills.	 This	 is
concerning,	of	course,	gaining	knowledge	and	skill,	how	to	use	our	material	bodies.	What
about	our	personality?	Our	personality	is	not	our	material	body.
No!	 It	 is	 any	 material	 body,	 but	 in	 reality,	 our	 personality	 is	 something	 very,	 very
different.	Because,	as	I	said	before,	the	bodies	of	all	human	beings,	male	or	female,	are
similar.	Bones,	flesh,	blood,	the	various	organs,	and	so	on.
And	studying	the	body	of	a	man	or	a	woman,	you	know	what	is	and	how	is	the	body	of
any	man	or	any	woman.	But	I	repeat	now,	you	cannot	know	the	personality	of	two
persons	because	they	are	never	the	same.	So	now	the	duty	is	to	start	learning	the
personality.
Our	petty	little	self,	the	shadow	of	our	self,	we	call	it	our	personality.	Now,	analyzing	the
personality,	in	a	man	or	a	woman,	we	find	that	personality	composed	of	the	material
body.	It	is	part	of	the	personality,	yet	it	is	not	the	personality.
A	name,	the	form,	of	course,	is	of	the	material	body.	Now	you	say,	the	personality	of	a
man	has	no	form.	Of	course,	the	personality	has	a	form.
The	form	of	the	psychical	body	and	the	form	of	the	nautical	body.	Definitely	it	has	a
form.	And	the	characteristics	now	are	making	the	difference.
Now,	we	have	to	study	our	personality.	To	put	it	plain,	our	personality	is	the	sum	total	of
our	emotional	thought	forms	and	our	pure	thought	forms,	which	means	the	elementals.
What	are	the	elementals	now?	Now,	this	is	the	point	you	have	just	to	think	over	it	and
understand	it.
We	 said,	 we	 are	 living,	 everything	 is	 living	 and	 existing,	 all	 the	 worlds	 and	 all	 the
universes	in	the	mind.	Now,	from	the	mind,	everything,	all	the	universes,	everything
existing	in	the	universes	is	made	of.	That's	clear.
Made	of	by	whom?	In	the	universes.	And	even	the	material	world	and	all	the	other
universes	are	built	up	by	the	elementals	of	the	archangels.	The	thought	forms	of	the

archangels.
So,	 the	 archangels,	 using	 the	 mind	 now	 as	 thought,	 have	 composed,	 built	 up	 the
universes	and	they	are	keeping	the	universes	in	good	order	in	the	sense	of	time	and
creating	what	we	call	space.	A	kind	of	space-place.	Various	places.
So,	that's	clear.	But,	this	is	what	you	will	understand.	The	holy	archangels	are	building
everything	in	the	eternal	now.
So,	in	building	the	universes,	there	is	not	past,	present	and	future	because	in	them	are
all	the	circles	of	possibilities.	At	the	same	time,	this	is	the	work	of	the	archangels	and
being	in	touch	with	the	archangels,	one	can	be	taught	of	this	wise	way	of	working.	Now,
so	we	have	the	work	of	the	archangels	in	what	I	call	the	eternal	now,	having	in	them	the
whole	plan,	the	whole	circle	of	the	possibilities.
And	yet	at	the	same	time,	working	on	the	circle	of	possibilities	at	any	point	of	the	circle,
which	means	the	archangels	of	trees,	with	the	angels	of	trees,	are	working	on	the	circle
of	possibilities,	creating	thousands	and	billions	of	forms	in	any	state	of	the	circle	of
possibilities.	They	sit,	they're	growing,	they're	coming	up,	growing,	growing,	growing,
completing	the	circle	of	possibilities	and	dying.	But	you	can	find	these	in	the	trees	in	any
state	of	their	existence.
So,	this	means	that	the	holy	archangels	in	the	creationism	are	holding	this	complete
circle	of	possibilities	and	are	working	on	all	the	points	of	all	existences	on	this	circle	of
possibilities.	For	one	form	of	expression,	billions	and	billions	and	billions,	starting	from
Myanmar	 to	 the	 animal	 kingdom,	 the	 vegetable	 kingdom,	 everything.	 Can	 you
understand	now	what	is	the	total	wisdom	of	the	all-mightiness	and	the	total	wisdom,	the
nature	of	the	holy	archangels	as	archangelic	beings?	You	can	be	taught	of	that	by	them
when	you	come	in	contact	with	them.
And	 what	 we	 are	 taught?	 They	 will	 teach	 you	 the	 materialization	 and	 the
dematerialization.	And	they	will	teach	many,	many,	many	things	which	are	beyond	now
any	bold	imagination.	Of	course,	I	am	not	allowed	to	speak	more	on	that.
Now,	coming	to	the	human	being.	I	said	the	human	being,	being,	even	in	the	lowest
scale	of	its	existence,	is	God.	And	has	in	him	or	in	her	all	the	possibilities	of	the	holy
archangels.
But	now,	this	has	been	developed	through	what	now?	The	personality	they	are	going	to
compose	and	make	changes	every	time.	So,	every	human	being	should	study	the	circle
of	the	human	possibilities.	Study	the	circles.
Circles	now,	not	a	circle,	of	human	probabilities.	Find	his	or	her	place	in	that	circle	of
probabilities.	And	using	now	the	mind	in	the	right	way,	develop	in	it,	in	it,	the	present
day	personality,	selfhood.

All	the	possibilities	to	reach	someday	to	what	I	call	real	self-realization.	Understanding
who	or	what	he	or	she	is	in	reality.	And	we	said	that	is	by	using	the	mind.
How?	 This	 is	 the	 how.	 Already	 every	 human	 being	 is	 using,	 I	 said	 yesterday,
subconsciously	the	mind.	In	creating	elementals.
And	any	personality	of	a	man	is	composed	of	the	sum	total	of	these	elementals,	which
that	 personality	 creates	 or	 is	 revitalizing	 from	 the	 group	 of	 the	 elementals	 that	 are
existing	and	created	by	our	ancestors.	So,	we	are	now	in	an	ocean,	just	a	little,	little	fish,
all	of	us,	swimming	in	that	ocean,	which	is	the	mind.	But	that	we	say,	the	mind	in	all	its
states	of	existence	and	of	everything	already	created	in	it.
Shall	I	call	it	the	cosmic	subconsciousness?	Yes,	there	is	another	word.	In	it	are	all	the
group	elementals	of	everything	which	human	beings	from	the	time	of	their	appearance
on	the	planet	have	started	creating	from	the	living	mind.	Mind	is	living	and	nothing	is
destroyed,	created	in	the	mind,	from	the	mind.
So,	don't	think	that	anybody	can	destroy	or	kill	any	of	the	elementals	he	had	brought	in
life,	because	they	are	living.	They	are	composed	of	the	mind	and	the	mind	is	living	as	we
are	living.	So,	now	we	see	the	life	of	our	material	bodies	supervised	and	kept	in	good
order	by	the	holy	archangels.
And	in	the	material	bodies	we	make	some	exercises.	We	live	independently	our	own	life
as	personalities.	We	study	the	composition,	material	composition	of	the	material	body.
But	now	we	have	to	study	the	composition	of	our	present	day	personality.	Is	our	present
personality	our	self,	our	real	self?	It	is	and	it	isn't.	The	heart	of	it	is	our	real	personality.
But	all	the	rest,	the	body	of	the	present	day	personality	is	not.	What	is	in	the	present	day
personality	of	Yannis	or	Mary,	the	real	spirit,	soul	selfhood	is	the	parts	of	life.	They	are
living.
The	parts	of	life	is	the	real	self.	The	way	a	personality	is	living	is	so	different	to	all	the
people	and	which	depends	upon	the	total	of	the	elementals	composing	personality.	It	is
in	our	real	self	and	we	can	by	introspection	find	it	out	and	be	sure	about	it.
Because	we	now	can	make	changes	in	our	present	day	personality.	So,	the	task	of	every
human	being,	not	the	seekers	of	the	truth,	of	every	human	being	at	all	times	it	is	to
study	the	nature	now	of	his	or	her	own	present	day	personality.	Analyze	it,	know	it,	that
means	studying	the	elementals	composing	it.
Now	elementals,	anything	which	had	drawn	our	attention	without	even	thinking	about	it
yet,	 creates	 an	 elemental.	 Everything	 which	 came	 to	 our	 attention	 and	 we	 started
thinking	of	it	gives	life	to	the	elemental.	Everything	that	is	vibrating	in	such	a	way	to
cause	 vibrations	 in	 our	 psychical	 body,	 the	 emotional	 body,	 is	 strengthening	 the

elementals	created.
And	we	see	now	the	elementals	in	various	states	of	strength	and	power.	That's	clear.
Now,	we	create	elementals.
An	elemental	has	definitely	a	form	because	nothing	can	exist	which	doesn't	have	a	form.
This	is	clear.	It	gets	a	form.
We	give	it	a	form	when	we	do	it	consciously,	but	if	we	are	doing	it	subconsciously,	just	a
desire,	an	emotion,	creates	an	elemental	which	gets	a	form	according	to	its	nature.
Clairvoyance	can	see	this	element.	Now,	definitely	an	elemental	has	a	form	and	certain
energy	or	power	in	it.
That	power,	usually	in	the	elementals,	which	we	call	emotion,	thought,	form,	depends
upon	the	strength	of	the	desire	or	of	the	emotion.	So	now	we	shall	see	the	energy	and
the	force	and	the	power	of	the	elementals.	So,	an	elemental	is	created	by	a	desire.
What	 is	 a	 desire	 now?	 Which	 is	 the	 main	 cause	 of	 the	 birth	 of	 all	 elementals,	 of
emotional	thought	elementals?	The	present-day	personality	of	a	man,	starting	with	the
composition	of	elementals,	has	in	the	elementals	the	law	of	attraction	as	knowing	and
having.	See	that?	Knowing	and	having.	So,	you	see	something.
The	already	elemental	created	persuades	you	subconsciously	to	know	more	about	it,	so
that	it	will	gain	strength	and	energy	in	it.	And	then,	to	get	real	existence	through	you,	it
excites	in	your	psychical	body	the	desire	of	having	it.	This	is	the	greatest	devil,	the
feeling	of	possessiveness.
Possessiveness	is	not	having,	but	enslaving	yourself	to	a	certain	thing,	calling	it	yours,
holding	it,	and	not	allowing	anybody	else	even	to	see	it,	or	have	it,	or	use	it.	Now	I	am
speaking	about	general	laws	concerning	the	elementals.	So,	an	elemental	has	never
greater	intelligence	than	the	fellow	who	is	giving	it	life.
But,	now,	it	is	very	cunning	in	trying	to	prolong	its	life,	which	is	maybe	greater,	much
greater,	than	the	way	the	person	who	had	created	it	has	that	kind	of	being	cunning,
because	of	the	necessity	of	the	elemental	to	prolong	its	life,	get	more	power,	get	more
energy.	Where	is	this	elemental	living?	We	said	our	present	personality	is	the	sum	total
of	these	elementals.	It	is	the	body	of	the	elementals,	is	the	personality.
Yet,	as	we	said,	they	live	at	the	same	time	in	the	cosmic	subconsciousness.	I	am	not
allowed	 to	 speak	 much	 about	 the	 cosmic	 subconsciousness.	 About	 the	 cosmic
consciousness,	yes,	we	will	speak	more.
Now,	an	elemental	is	created.	It	has	as	its	life	its	characteristic.	Now,	an	elemental	will
never	be	dis-energized	before	it	fulfills	its	purpose.

And	when	the	purpose	is	accomplished,	is	that	the	word?	Then	it	dis-energizes	itself	and
it	enters	into	the	cosmic	consciousness	until	somebody	else	will	pick	it	up.	What	man
could	 dream	 more	 than	 flying	 and	 leaving	 the	 planet	 and	 reaching	 the	 moon.	 Man
succeeded	it.
Why?	That	elemental	of	the	first	ambitious	dreamers	created	that	elemental.	And	that's
the	accomplishment	of	that	desire.	So,	never	an	elemental	will	dis-energize	itself	in	the
cosmic	subconsciousness,	enter	in	the	cosmic	consciousness	before	it	accomplishes	its
purpose.
And	you	should	be	very	careful.	Check	your	desires,	because	your	desires	now,	you	think
they	are	most,	most	important	for	you	to	be	accomplished.	Tomorrow,	I	mean	another
incarnation,	maybe	the	stumbling	stones	on	your	way	will	be	working.
I	know	it	by	personal	experience.	Think	behind	and	see	how	I	have	created	such	stones
in	my	way.	So,	have	in	mind	that	all	your	desires	will	be	fulfilled.
When?	Now,	how	this	when?	Sometime	in	what	you	call	the	future.	Because	they	are	the
rewards	of	existence.	So,	one	should	check	his	desires	and	his	emotions.
We	said	everything	we	think	about	it	creates	an	elemental.	Everything	which	excites	in
us	emotions	or	the	desire	is	creating	elementals.	Now,	the	quality	of	the	elemental.
It	can	be	any	kind	of	quality.	You	have	bad	elementals,	very,	very	bad	elementals,	worse
elementals,	and	all	that.	You	have	just	good	elementals,	just	slightly	better	elementals,
and	still	better	elementals,	excellent	elementals.
So,	the	quality	of	the	elementals	depends	upon	what?	The	already	existing	elementals	in
the	 human	 beings	 forming	 what	 you	 call	 his	 or	 her	 character.	 Because	 there	 is	 a
constant	fighting	between	the	elementals	in	the	personality	of	a	man	of	what	is	good	or
bad.	I	don't	want	to	use	the	word	evil.
So,	there	is	a	constant	clash	and	war	between	them	in	you.	Sometimes	this	clash	and
this	war	is	bringing	many	people,	if	these	elementals	are	the	extremes	in	one	side	or	the
other	 side,	 making	 that	 personality	 unhappy.	 So,	 a	 present	 day	 person,	 never	 two
persons	are	the	same	in	the	constitution	of	their	personality	and	in	the	kind	of	life	these
elementals	are	living	in	that	personality's	aura.
Because	usually	you	can	trace	them	in	what	I	call	the	aura	of	the	etheric	double.	So,	now
more	on	the	elementals.	An	elemental	is	created.
A	man	is	born	naked,	small	boy	or	girl,	but	it	grows	and	grows	and	grows	and	grows	and
changes	his	appearance.	And	then	it's	dressing	himself	as	a	human	being.	It	is	the	same
with	the	elementals.

They	are	created,	good	or	bad,	it	depends.	But	then	they	have	to	dress	themselves	with
what	I	will	say	certain	colors	to	get	their	color.	Because	their	color	will	show	their	nature
and	 their	 ability	 and	 strength	 in	 expressing	 themselves	 in	 the	 petty	 self	 of	 the
personality.
So,	all	the	elementals	have	an	independent	kind	of	willpower.	Willpower	of	what?	The
willpower	is	divine	state.	Because	they	are	created	by	the	divine	holy	mind.
And	 they	 are	 created	 by	 a	 soul	 personality	 now.	 So,	 now,	 what	 we	 are	 doing	 in
introspection?	What	we	are	supposed	to	do	in	introspection?	First	thing	is	get	inside	the
kingdom	of	the	heaven	which	is	within	us.	Kingdom	of	the	heaven?	It	might	be	a	hell.
Never	mind.	It	is	the	kingdom	of	the	heaven.	It	is	a	state	of	beingness	and	existence.
Now,	how	it	is?	It's	up	to	us	to	clean	it,	to	make	the	changes.	So,	entering	subconsciously
in	 our	 subconsciousness,	 now	 starting	 exercising	 our	 consciousness	 in	 observation,
meditation,	and	understanding,	we	can	make	the	changes	and	the	corrections.	Put	it
more	plain.
You	feel	you	have	an	ardent	desire	for	something.	Just	study	it.	Having	it?	Possessing	it?
Knowing	it?	Just	to	start	to	understand	its	nature.
Usually,	you	will	find	the	desire	of	having	it.	Because	the	elementals,	when	they	offer
you	something	to	your	personality,	they	have	it.	Because	they	have	their	own	kind	of,	I
won't	call	it,	I	don't	like	to	call	it	evil	consciousness.
Let	us	call	it	attraction	to	their	quality.	So,	you	have	their	influence	and	work	and	yours.
Usually,	the	personality	of	a	man	has	in	it	also	what	you	call	good	elementals,	reasoning
elementals.
A	man	cannot	be	completely	bad.	They	interfere.	And	so,	they	both,	these	elementals,
bad	or	good,	want	to	get	the	attention	of	their	master,	which	means	the	ego	of	the
personality.
And	they	clash	between	them.	There	is	a	war	between	them.	And	of	course,	who	is
paying	for	that	war?	The	elementals	or	the	fellow	who	created	them	in	him?	Now,	you
can	understand	what	are	the	mystics	of	consciousness.
Sometimes,	leading	a	man	even	to	commit	suicide.	Now,	in	our	self-superconsciousness
now,	our	real	self,	we	have	the	presence	of	the	holy	archangel.	Because	a	holy	archangel
is	our	guardian	angel,	not	only	for	our	spirit	and	soul,	because	our	spirit	and	soul	is	not	in
need	of	any	archangel	for	them,	except	being	ego-fied	by	love,	not	by	need.
But	to	supervise	for	the	present	the	personality	of	a	man.	Because	in	it,	we	said,	the
pulse	of	life	is	our	divine	self,	covered	with	a	kind	of	a	color,	we	call	it	ourselves,	the

present-day	 personality	 itself,	 the	 creation	 of	 time	 and	 place.	 So,	 when	 we	 start
introspection,	who	is	doing	it?	You	as	a	present-day	personality,	or	now	you	as	the	soul-
ego?	It	depends.
When	it	is	you	as	your	spirit-soul-ego,	definitely	you	are	going	to	win	the	battle.	But	if	it
is	the	present-day	personality	now	starting	reasoning,	the	fighting	is	terrible.	And	when
the	personality	now	realizing	itself,	its	nature	as	life,	was	to	change	the	circumstances,
that's	much	more	praiseworthy.
Because	in	the	assimilation	of	it	within	itself,	then	there	is	a	great,	great	joy.	To	whom?
To	it,	of	course,	definitely,	because	that	is	reaching	the	self-realization.	But	also	to	the
holy	archangels,	composing	the	bodies,	which	that	personality	now	tends	to	purify.
And	Joshua	the	Christ	says,	joy	is	to	the	archangels,	the	angels	in	heaven,	to	you	are
angels,	 for	 everyone	 returning	 back	 home.	 That	 means	 returning	 back	 to	 its	 divine
nature.	That's	clear.