

Daskalos-Jan-30-1990-A-Face-the-sun-of-truth
Our	father,	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done,	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our
sins,	as	we	forgive	those	who	sin	against	us.
And	lead	us	not	into	temptation,	but	deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom	and
the	power	and	the	glory	forever.	God	of	life,	love	and	mercy,	enlighten	our	minds	to
understand	your	truth.
Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.
Amen.	We	said	that	everything	existing	in	the	universes,	the	material	universe,	the
planet,	 satellite,	 solar	 system,	 all	 solar	 systems,	 galaxies,	 these	 are	 the	 material
universe.
Everything	existing	in	the	so-called	psychical	universe,	the	psychical	parts	of	everything
material,	and	everything	existing	in	what	we	call	the	analytical	universes,	are	mind.	And
you	have	mind	solid	as	matter	and	everything	material.	We	have	mind	as	matter	and
substance.
It	is	the	etheric	part	of	our	planet,	which	of	course	is	not	the	psychical	plane.	We	have
the	so-called	psychical	worlds.	Every	material	thing	has	a	psychical	counterpart.
We	have	the	planet,	and	the	planet	has	its	etheric	part,	counterpart,	and	a	psychical
plane.	All	heavenly	bodies	have	their	psychical	bodies.	But	the	psychical	bodies	of	the
heavenly	bodies	do	not	touch	each	other.
As	every	human	being	has	his	psychical	body,	and	is	not	in	direct	contact	with	the
psychical	bodies	of	the	others,	so	the	psychical	bodies	of	the	heavenly	bodies	we	call
planets.	Then	you	have	the	mental,	mind,	logic	universe.	This	is	what	I	call	substance.
Now,	the	galaxy	has	its	noetic	body,	therefore	everything	existing	in	the	galaxy,	in	any
galaxy,	are	floating	in	this	noetic	body	of	the	galaxy.	This	is	what	I	call	supersubstance
and	substance.	And	of	course	we	have	space.
There	in	space	we	have	the	so-called	supersubstance	formless,	and	everything	is	mind.
So	we	have	mind	as	supersubstance,	as	substance,	and	as	matter.	Everywhere	is	mind	in
this	stage.
And	everything	existing	is	mind	and	from	the	mind.	But	mind	is	not	God.	We	must	have
this	in	our	mind.
So	what	exists,	exists	now,	exists	and	will	exist,	is	mind.	What	is	eternally,	is	life.	What
you	call	God,	we	call	it	absolute	beingness.

So	we	find	absolute	beingness,	its	multiplicity,	being's	eternal,	everlasting,	God's	life.
The	characteristics	of	these	beings	and	of	the	absolute	beingness	is	life.	And	God	exists,
which	are	the	phenomena	of	life.
If	life	was	not,	nothing	living	would	exist.	This	is	obvious.	Wherefrom	did	life	come	then?
So	we	have	the	absolute	beingness	in	its	multiplicity.
What	are	we	as	human	beings?	An	eternal	being	is	self-consciousness,	our	I-ness,	our
ego,	eternal	God.	Life,	everlasting	life.	And	we	exist	as	human	beings.
Now	 in	 the	 world	 of	 existence,	 but	 to	 exist	 we	 are	 in	 need	 of	 the	 mind.	 You	 said
everything	existing	is	the	mind.	And	the	mind	is	everywhere.
Shall	we	say	that	the	mind	is	what	we	call	the	will	of	God?	Yes.	Because	otherwise	how
would	we	understand	what	is	the	will	of	God?	Unless	manifested.	And	the	mind	is	the
means	of	the	manifestation	of	life,	to	create	the	universes,	all	the	universes.
And	everything	existing.	So	the	characteristics	of	the	mind,	or	the	nature	of	the	mind,	is
the	will	of	God.	But	the	will	of	God	is	not	God.
Divine,	yes,	but	not	God.	So,	how	can	we	know	the	mind?	By	using	it,	of	course.	How	can
we	otherwise	know	the	mind?	We.
Who	we?	Are	we	the	mind?	Or	something	different	from	the	mind?	Which	will	use	the
mind?	From	this	point	we	understand	that	we	are	not	the	mind.	Apart	from	that,	we	get
the	mind.	You	said	that	the	mind	is	everywhere,	of	course.
And	within	us,	and	in	us.	No,	it's	different,	within	us	and	in	us.	What	do	I	mean,	within
us?	Within	our	existence.
Our	existence	is	our	pneumatic	body,	our	psychical	body,	the	etheric	doubles,	and	the
material	body.	Of	course	it	is	within	us,	within	these	bodies.	What	do	I	mean,	in	us?	Us
now,	not	as	human	beings.
As	spirit,	ego,	self-superconsciousness,	life.	And	since	the	mind	is	the	characteristic	and
the	nature	of	life,	it's	our	nature.	So	the	mind	is	in	us.
It	is	the	expression	of	our	beingness.	So	I	have	mind	in	two	states	now.	Our	nature	and
what	we	get	from	outside.
In	us.	Some	make	the	mistake	to	think	that	they	are	strangers	to	the	mind,	and	the	mind
is	entrusted	to	them,	because	we	say,	give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread.	Yes.
Our	daily	bread.	What	does	it	mean,	our	daily	bread?	It	is	ours.	Ours.
So,	the	nature	of	our	I-ness,	our	ego,	spirit,	self-superconsciousness,	is	life	and	mind

expressing	the	life.	That's	the	first	principle	of	our	coming	from	life	to	the	world	of	the
phenomena	as	a	phenomenon	of	life.	This	is	the	reason.
So,	now	we	will	study	mind.	Who?	We.	Now,	we'll	study	the	mind.
We'll	study	that	it	exists	around	us,	everywhere,	and	in	us	as	our	nature.	Who	and	how?
Who	will	study	the	mind	now	within	the	present-day	personality?	Is	the	nature	of	the
present-day	personality	the	mind?	No.	Unless	the	present-day	personality	will	realize	and
feel	her	I-ness	as	God.
As	bodies?	No.	The	bodies	are	created	by	the	mind.	It	is	the	creation.
That's	why	our	bodies	are	not	ourselves.	They	are	ours.	Yes.
Given	to	us.	We	didn't	build	them.	We	are	not	looking	after	them.
We	can	call	them	ours	by	grace	and	mercy.	Not	by	right	yet.	So,	who	will	study	now
God's	mind?	The	present-day	personality.
Is	the	present-day	personality	able	to	use	the	mind	and	through	the	mind	find	herself,
know	herself,	and	then	go	inwards	to	know	her	real	self?	The	present-day	personality.	Of
course.	Because	you	are	not	simply	the	creation.
Can	the	material	body	do	that	as	a	material	body?	No.	The	material	body,	though	built
up	most	wisely	by	the	total	wisdom	of	the	Holy	Spirit,	is	a	creation.	Only	the	material
body	cannot	do	that.
The	material	body	is	to	be	composed	and	sometimes	decomposed.	The	phenomenon	we
call	death.	Our	bodies	are	born	and	are	dying,	not	we.
Even	as	the	present-day	personality.	So,	now,	who	is	going	to	study	mind	as	matter?	We
as	the	present-day	personality.	A	scientist,	man	or	a	woman.
A	mystic,	as	a	man	and	a	woman,	shall	study	the	material	body.	I	said,	I	say	scientist,
man	or	a	woman.	And	as	a	mystic,	either	a	man	or	a	woman,	what	is	a	scientist	doing?
Studying	matter	and	the	material	body.
Mind	solid.	Yes.	When	one,	as	a	scientist	or	as	a	mystic,	studies	his	material	body	or	her
material	body,	what	a	present-day	personality,	a	man	or	a	woman,	finds	out	by	this
study?	Two	things.
That	the	material	body	in	which	that	present-day	personality	is	living	is	unknown	to	her.
And	she	has	to	study	it,	investigate	and	find	out	what	it	is.	So	a	scientist	is	doing,	a
mystic	also	is	doing.
But	the	mystic	does	not	remain	with	the	material	body.	Only	he	goes	further.	To	find

himself	and	understand	himself.
Now	we	study	the	material	body	as	a	scientist.	We	have	yet	much,	much	more	to	learn.
By	 what?	 Meditation	 alone?	 Concentration?	 No,	 by	 observation,	 leading	 to	 the
knowledge.
That's	why	I	give	so	much	attention	to	this	word	observation.	You	say,	but	is	observation
not	meditation?	Meditation	may	be	observation	to	some	extent.	But	observation	means
much	more	than	meditation.
So,	what's	the	result	of	it?	The	present-day	personality	starts	subconsciously	to	trace
herself	and	know	now,	externally,	what	is	the	object	of	study.	Because	if	you	put	the
question,	who	are	you?	Who	now	are	thinking	and	observing	and	trying	to	know	this	or
that?	That	is	what	it	is.	I	do	that.
The	body?	You	are	studying	the	body,	so	that	you	know	what	is	the	body.	And	you	know
very	little	about	it.	Of	course,	by	observation	and	constant	meditation,	now	as	a	mystic,
using	another	way	than	the	orthodox	science	instruments	in	the	laboratories	and	in
factories,	you	tend	to	know	the	nature	of	matter	and	your	own	nature.
These	are	two	different	ways	of	study	which	one	should	use.	Again,	either	as	a	scientist
or	as	a	mystic.	So,	what	is	the	difference	between	these	two?	In	reality,	there	is	no
difference	when	their	observation,	meditation,	reaches	the	knowledge	of	the	truth.
Before	that,	maybe	they	fight.	You	are	using	egoists,	as	a	scientist,	I	know	more,	yet
every	day	dropping	down	theories	to	replace	them,	and	as,	say,	a	mystic	or	fanatic	or
religious	man,	using	what	I	call	superstition	and	fanaticism.	Both	are	wrong.
But	one	day	they	will	meet,	if	they	are	serious	researchers	after	the	truth.	A	researcher
after	the	truth	is	a	scientist	and	a	mystic.	This	is	the	truth.
So,	now	we	shall	present	the	personality.	Our	ego,	I-ness,	thinking	that	itself	is	a	body,	in
a	male	or	female	body,	starts	studying	the	matter.	As	regards	the	material	world,	the
material	body,	by	meditation,	observation.
What	 a	 researcher	 after	 the	 truth	 now.	 Leave	 aside	 the	 orthodox	 science	 and	 the
laboratories	and	the	other	means	they	are	using	and	instruments.	Now	we	go	to	the
other	side.
As	 a	 researcher	 after	 the	 truth,	 our	 present	 personality,	 man	 or	 a	 woman.	 After
exhausting	his	attention	on	the	body	and	in	the	body,	the	workings	of	the	various
instruments	and	this	and	that,	you	must	reach	certain	conclusions.	The	right	ones	at	the
beginning.
No.	He	or	she	will	make	many,	many	mistakes	before	understanding	the	relative	truth.

Yet,	 using	 the	 mind,	 because	 these	 are	 the	 means	 to	 be	 used,	 now	 as	 thought,
meditation,	 observation,	 concentration,	 can	 go	 through	 the	 mistakes	 and	 find	 the
relative	truth.
Relative	truth,	not	the	truth.	Of	course	not	the	truth.	Because	you	said	the	truth	is
beyond	the	words	of	the	manifestation.
The	relative	truth.	Yes.	It	is	what	is	given	by	what	we	say,	conception	and	understanding,
and	believe	me,	you	have	to	pierce	through	the	many,	many	illusions.
In	the	material	world,	in	the	psychical	world	and	in	the	medical	world.	But	yet,	that	I-
ness,	that	ego,	even	as	a	present	personality,	by	constant	observation	and	serious
thinking,	can	pierce	the	veil	of	illusions.	Of	the	material	world,	of	the	psychical	world	and
of	the	medical	world.
And	face	now	the	sun	of	truth.	Face	the	sun	of	truth.	Who	is?	Where?	Will	she	stand	in	a
place	and	see	a	sun	in	front	of	her?	And	say,	that's	the	sun	of	the	truth.
No.	Looking	in,	in	the	heavens,	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	within	us,	you	will	find	that	I
am	the	truth.	Ich	bin	die	Wahrheit.
Did	I	say	that	correct?	Not	by	seeing	something	else,	but	through	at-one-ment,	becoming
one	with	the	Self.	But	now,	this	is	the	final	note.	We	have	to	go	down	to	the	present-day
personality.
What	 are	 we?	 We	 are	 a	 composed	 being	 of	 God.	 We	 are	 an	 ego,	 I-ness,	 self-
consciousness,	spirit,	self-super-consciousness,	not.	Consubstantial	with	the	Father.
Another	better	word.	And,	we	are,	and	exist	now,	in	the	world	of	manifestation,	as	a	soul.
What	is	the	soul	now?	Is	the	soul	not	the	ego,	spirit,	self-super-consciousness?	Yes.
Definitely	it	is.	In	substance,	yet	in	manifestation,	that	spirit,	part	of	it,	part	of	ourselves,
has	passed	through	the	idea	of	man,	in	the	total	wisdom	of	the	three-pig-ness.	A	state	of
the	spirit,	of	the	super-self-consciousness,	before	yet	being	humanized.
Yes,	we	are	this	all.	Ego,	self-super-consciousness.	And	then,	manifested	through	the
locus,	locally,	and	through	the	Holy	Spirit,	in	power	and	might,	become	human.
Dress	 ourselves	 with	 mind	 in	 the	 various	 vibrations.	 Have	 our	 neurotic	 body,	 our
psychical	body,	and	our	material	body,	with	the	in-between,	the	etheric	doubles.	So,	we,
as	human	beings,	though	we	are	the	likeness,	and	the	image,	of	the	infinite	beingness,
we	are	a	creature,	created,	existing,	in	what	we	call,	time	and	space.
Space-place.	We	made	clear	in	other	lectures,	what	is	space	and	what	is	place.	So,	now
we	start,	as	a	present-day	personality,	to	study	the	material	body,	and	our	existence
now,	as	a	living	being,	apart	from	the	life	of	the	material	body.

And	I	said	in	a	lesson,	all	the	bodies	of	men	and	all	the	bodies	of	women	are	the	same.	In
the	same	way,	built	up	by	the	Holy	Spirit	and	the	Holy	Archangels,	and	supervised	by	the
Holy	Spirit	and	the	Holy	Archangels,	kept	in	good	health.	Yet,	we	are	something	different.
I	said,	never	to	men	or	to	women,	as	present-day	personalities,	are	the	same.	Now,
again,	our	study,	by	observation,	why?	Why	you	are	not	the	same?	We	see	in	a	house,
two	girls	and	two	boys,	members	of	the	same	family,	born	in	the	same	house,	live	in	the
same	house,	eat	the	same	things,	all	of	them,	for	years,	brought	up	in	the	same	way.
Their	bodies	are	fed	by	the	same	stuff,	the	same	stuff.
And	we	see	them	in	an	age	so	different.	Why?	Is	the	present-day	personality	the	product
of	what	we	eat	and	what	we	drink?	You	see,	two	systems	so	different.	And	the	two	boys,
two	brothers,	again	so	different.
Why?	You	have	to	study	that.	This,	why?	Which	means	stepping	a	step	forward,	not
studying	the	material	bodies	now,	studying	what	I	call	the	personalities,	personality	of
each	one,	and	quantify	it,	that	both	male	or	female	members	of	the	same	family	are
expressing	in	a	different	way	now,	different	vibrations	of	their	psychical	body.	That
means	desires,	emotions,	likings,	dislikings,	reaching	to	the	passions	misunderstandings,
understanding	things.
And	this	creates	what	we	call	quarrels.	Quarrels,	why?	You	must	study	this	also,	because
in	them	all	is	created	now	in	their	present	personality	the	desire	of	dominating,	of
having,	of	getting.	Calling	things	mine,	depriving	them	from	the	others.
You	can	see	that	in	all	the	families	all	around	the	world,	in	all	countries.	And	how	do	we
study	 that?	 All	 of	 them	 have	 the	 same	 apheteria,	 the	 desire	 of	 having,	 getting,
presenting	themselves.	And	then,	in	what	way?	All	of	them.
Now	we	have	to	study	these	expressions	of	our	present	personality.	Studying	what	we
call	our	emotional	body	or	the	so-called	psychical	body.	Again,	by	using	the	mind.
It's	not	easy	to	do.	I	tell	you,	most	difficult	because	on	our	ways	we	find	our	own
psychical	vibrations,	our	desires,	emotions,	liking	and	disliking	and	all	that.	So	we	have
to	do	something	now.
Try	to	analyze	our	present	personality,	control	our	emotions,	become	masters	of	our
emotions	so	that	we'll	be	able	free	now	to	study	what	are	emotions?	What	are	desires?
What	is	the	effect	of	these	emotions	and	desires	in	life?	You	have	just	to	see	that.	The
effect	of	all	these	desires	is	the	creation	of	what	we	said	are	elementals.	Desire	thought
forms	or	thought	desire	forms.
How	to	study	them?	To	study	their	nature	and	their	quality	and	to	what	extent	they	are
influencing	us.	Are	these	elementals	dominating	over	us?	Seeing	people	around	us	in	all
the	 communities	 we	 find	 that	 at	 least	 80%	 of	 those	 people	 are	 slaves	 of	 these

elementals,	of	theirs	and	of	those	elementals	of	others	which	vibrate	to	the	same	rate	of
vibration	to	their	own	elementals.	So,	there	is	a	vast	now	field	of	study,	meditation	and
observation.
Try	to	understand	what	is	that.	What	do	we	understand?	That	we	have	two	kinds	now	of
elementals.	What	we	call	the	emotion	thought	forms	and	the	pure	thought	forms	with	a
little	desire	of	knowing.
And	we	see	that	our	emotion	thought	forms	are	those	forms	that	really	dominate	over
us.	What	do	we	do?	How	do	we	project	that?	By	enslaving	thought,	mind	in	a	higher	rate
of	vibration	to	become	the	servant	of	these	emotions,	of	these	desires	for	the	fulfilment
of	these	desires.	These	elementals	are	the	elementals	which	Christ	described	and	you
find	them	in	the	New	Testament,	the	Bible	as	spirits,	void	and	meaningless	yet	most
powerful.
In	one	case,	a	group	of	these	elementals	calling	itself	legion	who	are	torturing	a	poor
fellow,	throwing	him	down,	having	defeat	of	epilepsy.	What	do	we	find	now	studying
things	around	us?	That	these	elementals	I	said,	the	creation	of	certain	people	and	other
elementals,	creation	of	other	people	vibrating	to	the	same	rate	of	vibration	with	those
elementals	dominate	over	the	present-day	personality.	This	of	course	a	psychiatrist	and
psychotherapist	must	know	as	the	fixed	ideas	most	powerful	even	to	lead	a	human
being,	a	present-day	person	present-day	personality	to	a	mental	hospital.
I	have	just	to	read	the	nature	of	these	elementals.	Call	them	forces,	if	you	like.	Call	them
dirty	energy.
I	have	so	many	works	even	from	psychiatrists	and	I	was	wondering	how	did	they	manage
to	create	such	works	themselves.	So,	I	have	to	study	the	nature	of	these	elementals.	And
we	find	that	our	present-day	personality	as	egoism	not	ego	because	it	has	nothing	to	do
with	your	ego,	your	soul,	self-consciousness	is	the	sum	total	of	these	elementals.
We	call	them	good	or	bad.	And	what	we	have	to	do	now	as	we	said	just	after	truth,	one
step	forward.	Not	now	as	an	ego	with	small	letters	of	the	present-day	personality	but
now	as	an	ego	of	our	permanent	personality	or	our	soul	consciousness.
Now	we	are	expressing	the	will	to	know	to	become	the	master	of	the	situation	before	us
the	present-day	personality	who	are	accepting	everything	obeying	to	these	elementals.
Now,	we	want	to	control	them,	study	them	and	free	ourselves	from	these	elementals.
Therefore,	we	are	not	those	elementals	ourselves	since	we	can	replace	them,	study
them	and	put	another	way,	de-energize	them	and	escape	from	their	torturing	influence.
So	again,	we	find	ourselves	now.	We	are	not	those	elementals	ourselves.	We	are	not	our
egoism	but	we	are	a	different	entity	now	than	the	egoism.
Now,	we	must	study	seriously	all	the	faces	of	egoism.	Many	men	faces.	How	many	faces?

It's	expressing	our	real	ego	one.
I	am	I.	I	am	not	my	weakness	of	stealing	and	I	am	not	the	weakness	of	drinking.	I	am	not
the	weakness	of	gambling.	I	am	not	the	weakness	of	surrendering	myself	to	sex.
I	am	not	that	and	that	and	that.	Egoism	will	come	with	hundred	faces	but	we	have	only
our	face.	I	am	I.	This	is	the	difference	between	your	I-ness,	your	ego	and	the	egoism.
You	have	to	kill.	Kill.	Disenergize	all	the	elementals	of	various	natures	composing	it.
They	had	the	question	from	a	fellow	the	other	day	from	the	Greek	group.	And	what
remains	to	us?	You	are	taking	this	that	and	that	and	that	and	that	so	much	even	our
weaknesses	pleasing	things	and	say	I	am	I.	What	remains	to	us?	The	dignity	of	your	I-
ness	is	controlling	all	of	that.	You	are	not	supposed	by	disenergizing	the	elementals	no,
to	energize	good	ones.
By	punishing	the	devils	not	to	have	the	company	of	creative	angels.	Now	we	are	not
creating	elementals	through	our	I-ness.	Time	and	space	emotions	are	through	reason.
So	we	have	no	new	elementals.	Those	we	call	thought	forms.	Not	emotional	thought
forms.
We	can	just	see	the	difference.	The	first	class	the	emotional	thought	forms	who	are
keeping	us	slaves	keeping	us	as	an	egoistic	slave	of	consciousness	which	we	must	get
rid	of.	But	now	our	new	thought	forms	I	can't	call	them	our	slaves	though	we	would	be
their	masters.
Before	we	were	slaves	of	those	elementals	but	now	I	have	them	as	angels	I	call	them
creative	thought	serving	their	masters.	are	masters.	That	means	our	I-ness	our	real	self
deprived	of	egoism	are	not	going	to	treat	them	as	servants	and	slaves	but	as	our	own
expression.
Now	you	must	reach	to	this	state	to	understand	the	difference.	You	cannot	understand	it
unless	 you	 live	 in	 this	 state	 of	 things.	 And	 then	 becoming	 the	 masters	 of	 matter
becoming	the	masters	of	the	emotions	becoming	the	masters	of	thought	you	clean	that
field	of	your	present	personality	called	your	sub	consciousness.
Now	you	know	what	is	sub	consciousness.	The	sum	total	of	your	elementals	good	or	evil
is	your	sub	consciousness.	Is	that	all?	Not	all.
If	we	call	it	a	storehouse	in	one	part	of	this	storehouse	the	substance	of	the	mind	in	all
its	rates	of	vibrations	kept	by	the	archangels	and	the	Holy	Spirit	is	accord	the	etheric
vitality	from	which	the	etheric	body	provides	the	energy	the	etheric	substance	that
means	pure	mind	in	all	the	rates	of	vibrations.	You	understand?	Our	sub	consciousness
known	well	known	to	the	archangels	and	the	Holy	Spirit	yet	is	our	nature	as	present	the

personality.	 Do	 we	 have	 access	 to	 the	 other	 side	 of	 the	 mind	 used	 by	 the	 Holy
Archangels	and	the	Holy	Spirit?	No.
But	all	the	time	the	Holy	Archangels	and	the	Holy	Spirit	are	providing	us	with	our	daily
bread	from	this	storehouse	of	pure	substance	and	super	substance	we	call	mind.	Though
as	a	present-day	personality	one	feels	exhausted,	tired,	chased	out	of	the	material	body
so	that	time	will	be	given	to	the	Holy	Archangels	and	the	Holy	Spirit	to	repair	the
damages	in	the	material	body.	This	is	the	meaning	of	sleep	only.
Yet	all	things,	damages	in	the	material	body,	even	wounds,	tend	to	be	cured	by	the	Holy
Spirit	and	the	Holy	Archangels.	So,	we	should	by	observation	and	meditation	to	see
these	things	and	study	them.	In	this	way,	we	come	in	touch	with	the	builders	or	workers
in	our	bodies,	the	material	body,	the	psychical	body,	and	the	enochic	body.