

Daskalos-Jun-9-1992-B-Consciousness-andthe-HolyMind
Now,	we	spoke	about	a	mirror,	a	crystal	clear	mirror,	to	see	our	self	reflected	on	it.	But
what	 we	 see	 in	 the	 mirror	 is	 not	 our	 self,	 it	 is	 our	 image.	 Which	 is	 this	 crystal	 clear
mirror?	We	said	our	self,	super-consciousness.
When	we	raise	our	consciousness	to	those	high	levels,	our	self,	super-consciousness.	But
I	said	before,	we	are	not	the	self,	super-consciousness.	The	super-consciousness	is	our
expression.
We	are	behind	it,	the	self.	Now,	I	unite	it,	self,	super-consciousness,	together.	The	one
expressing	itself,	the	self,	and	the	expression	of	it,	and	the	manner	it's	expressing	itself,
what	I	call	it,	super-consciousness.
Now,	it's	lovely	to	see	that	self	of	yours	reflected	as	super-consciousness,	and	compare	it
with	this	self	you	are	just	seeing	in	the	threefold	dirty	mirrors,	just	like	a	monster.	And
you	rejoice.	Now,	I	know	what	I'm	looking	like.
I	know	what	I'm	looking	like,	but	I	must	find	what	I	am.	Not	what	I	am	looking	like.	So	we
should	not	stay	there.
We	should	find	our	dear	self,	God.	What	is	the	form	of	this	God?	Our	spirit,	soul,	ego.
Formless,	but	everything.
We.	So,	we	are	formless.	Yes,	we	are	formless.
What's	the	name	of	it?	There	is	no	name	except	I	am.	You	go	beyond	even	the	I	am	I.
There	are	higher	states	of	expression	of	the	self	as	super-consciousness.	Many	are	afraid
to	enter	in	that	state,	believing	that	they	are	losing	themselves.
And	many	Buddhists	make	the	mistake	of	calling	it	nothingness,	nirvana.	Nirvana	is	not
nothingness.	Nirvana	is	everything.
What	 do	 I	 mean	 everything?	 In	 that	 state	 you	 can	 become	 anything	 yourself,	 being
yourself.	So	all	forms	are	yours,	are	in	you,	are	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens,	which	is
in	your	own	nature.	You	can	become	anything	and	know	anything.
Then	you	understand	what's	God.	The	master,	emanating	from	him	the	principles,	the
laws,	 the	 causes,	 and	 all	 the	 forms.	 What	 kind	 of	 super-consciousness	 now	 you	 are
expressing?	Can	you	express	what	I	call	omnipresence?	That's	spreading.
Much?	Yes.	But	the	omnipresence?	Certainly.	In	God.
Omnipotence?	Not	even.	Not	even	the	holy	archangels,	our	brothers,	the	lords	of	the
elements.	The	only	omnipresence	and	omnipotence	and	the	total	love	is	not	expressed
by	the	nature	of	the	locus,	the	expression,	the	manifestation	of	God.

The	only,	only,	only	human	being	who	could	enter	in	this	kind	of	selfhood	of	omniscience,
omnipresence,	and	total	love,	it	was	only	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	as	a	human	being.
Great	honor	to	the	human	race	to	be	honored	by	the	locus,	to	humanize	itself,	perfect.
Anyhow,	I	don't	believe	the	men-gods	can	go	to	these	higher	states	of	beingness.
They	can	go	to	the	higher	states	of	existence,	admit	it,	but	not	to	the	higher	states	of
beingness.	Now,	let	us	come	down.	We	have	gone	too	high.
Coming	down.	We	must	find	what	we	are	and	who	we	are.	Two	different	things.
Who	we	are.	A	name,	believing	to	be	a	material	body,	believing	to	be	emotions,	desires,
weaknesses,	and	so	on,	and	using	the	mind	without	knowing	what	is	the	mind.	That's
what	people	are	now.
What	we	are	going	to	do	now.	Studying	in	what	way	we	are	using	the	mind,	creating	and
revitalizing	 elementals	 to	 compose	 our	 personality.	 Now	 to	 see	 the	 nature	 of	 our
personality.
No	need	to	be	in	despair.	If	you	meet,	you	are	in	a	jungle.	You	have	to	work	on	it	and
make	it	a	paradise.
We	can	do	that.	Slowly,	slowly.	How?	By	now	making	good	use	of	the	mind	as	real,	pure
thought-forms,	which	are	very	powerful.
Slowly,	slowly	becoming	masters	of	the	cross-matter.	Masters	of	our	so-called	esoteric
double	and	psychical	body	and	our	nautical	body.	I	will	remind	you	now	of	the	parable
which	has	been	given	by	the	godman	Joshua	the	Christ.
Many	times	I	have	given	this	parable	because	I	give	much	importance	to	it.	There	is	a
master,	the	Divine	Father,	the	Absolute	Infinite	Selfhood,	the	Absolute	Infinite	Beingness,
who	gave	to	some	of	his	workers,	going	away,	just	withdrawing,	to	one	talent	for	dinner.
You	got	it.
To	another	one,	two.	To	another	one,	four.	Why	he	gave	them	one,	two	and	four?	By
judging	how	they	would	work	with	it.
Coming	back.	The	one	with	one	dinner	told	him,	Sir,	I	know	you	are	a	cunning	master.
You	want	your	servants	to	work	for	you.
This	dinner	you	gave	me,	I	have	hidden	it	in	the	earth.	Here	it	is.	Have	it	back.
That	dinner	is	that	selfhood.	He	has	hidden	it	in	the	material	body.	What	is	more	than
earth?	The	material	body.
Not	doing	anything	with	it.	Living	just	like	the	other	animals	around	him.	Told	him,	go
back	to	prison.

That	was	not	a	punishment.	He	had	to	go	in	the	material	body	again,	to	be	reborn,	to
learn	 the	 lesson.	 Why	 I	 gave	 you	 just	 this	 part	 of	 myself	 as	 a	 selfhood?	 To	 live	 like
animals?	Maybe	this	explains	the	incarnation	and	reincarnation.
The	other	one	said,	Master,	you	gave	me	two	dinners.	I	have	worked	with	them.	I	made
them	four.
Here	 they	 are.	 That	 means	 he	 gave	 to	 him	 a	 material	 body	 and	 an	 etheric	 double.
Working	with	them,	he	made	them	the	psychical	body	and	the	nautical	body.
Here	they	are.	I	made	them	four.	What	did	the	master	say?	Well	done.
You	have	been	faithful	and	good	to	the	few.	And	I'll	entrust	you	with	more.	Enter	in	the
joyousness	of	your	master.
Now,	what	is	the	joyousness	of	our	master?	The	joy	of	our	master.	It	is	not	our	joy,	which
is	a	little	self-satisfaction	and	pleasure.	That's	creation.
That's	the	joyousness	of	our	master.	He	says	in	the	Bible,	Christ,	To	the	one	who	had	two
and	made	them	four	dinners,	he	made	him	governor	of	four	cities.	What	is	Jesus	saying?
Nonsense!	Matter	is	our	material	body.
The	source	of	mind	is	our	etheric	double	and	our	psychical	and	nautical	bodies.	We	work
with	them,	but	these	substances	and	this	stuff	is	outside	of	us.	And	the	cross-material
world,	and	the	psychical,	and	the	ethereal,	and	all	those	worlds.
So,	knowing	to	work	and	make	the	two	dinners	matter,	etheric	double	into	psychical	and
nautical,	we	know	now	the	way	to	enter	in	the	joyousness	of	our	father.	Two	dinners,
bodies.	Two	cities.
What	 are	 these	 cities?	 During	 the	 night,	 get	 out	 and	 look	 at	 the	 sky.	 Space	 needs
governance.	Not	who	understood	really	this	great	parable.
Even	 dignitaries	 of	 the	 church	 cannot	 understand	 this	 parable.	 Because	 they	 know
nothing	besides	cross-matter.	And	that	there	is	nothing	beyond	that.
What	do	we	know?	That	one	should	develop	what	we	call	consciousness	to	the	highest
levels	of	consciousness	so	that	we	see	our	real	self	in	it,	reach	what	I	call	self-realization.
To	understand	that	we	are	gods	and	sons	of	the	almighty	and	we	should	not	just	behave
like	animals.	Another	great,	great	parable	of	Joshua	the	god-man	is	the	parable	of	the
lost	son,	the	prodigal	son.
He	says,	the	younger	son	told	his	father,	give	me	my	substance,	my	property.	I	want	to
go	away,	to	enjoy	myself.	All	that	belongs	to	the	divine	plan.
He	could	stop	him	if	he	wanted,	the	father.	He	didn't	do	it.	Go.

There	you	are.	You	are	given	the	holy	substance	of	the	mind	even	behaving	as	a	foolish
person.	He	went	out.
He	entered	in	the	world	of	separateness.	He	describes	Christ	there,	his	life	in	process
with	harlot,	with	thieves,	with	criminals,	spending	the	holy	substance	which	means	the
mind	to	the	point	he	became	bankrupt	as	most	human	beings	are	now.	What	was	the	life
of	the	prodigal	son?	He	was	forced	to	gut	swine	to	be	a	fellow	guarding	herds	of	swine
and	satisfy	himself	by	eating	the	food	of	the	swine.
What	are	the	swine?	The	elementals.	He	is	projecting	and	revitalizing,	living	with	them
and	being	fed	with	the	food	of	those	swine	contaminating	the	mind	with	all	other	states
of	 deathly	 consciousness.	 But	 he	 came	 back	 to	 senses	 and	 he	 said,	 look	 here,	 he
remembered	in	the	palace	of	my	father	his	workers	there	are	living	happy.
I	 am	 a	 prince.	 What	 am	 I	 now?	 Dressing	 dirty	 rags	 of	 a	 fellow	 guarding	 swine	 in	 the
muddy	places	where	the	swine	are	just	placing	themselves.	Hungry.
Yes,	of	course,	he	was	hungry.	He	couldn't	have	the	high	quality	of	the	mind.	He	had
desires,	dirty	desires,	some	brattled	desires	having	in	them	the	mind	contaminated.
He	came	back	to	senses,	no.	I	will	return	back	home.	And	I	tell	my	father,	Father,	I	have
sinned	towards	you.
Forgive	me	and	make	me	one	of	your	least	servants	if	you	like.	I	will	serve	you.	When	he
made	 one	 step	 backwards,	 the	 father	 made	 in	 ten	 steps	 the	 nine	 to	 meet	 him	 and
embrace	him	and	kiss	him	and	tell	him,	well,	come	back	home,	my	son.
Bring	him	back.	What	he	did?	Wash	yourself,	dear	one.	He	dressed	him	with	the	first
dress	he	had	as	a	spirit.
Eco-shirt.	Brilliant.	That's	our	spirit	soul	bodies	which	we'll	get	one	day.
We	deserve	having	it.	We	have	it	in	us	already.	Hidden.
Hidden	by	the	guardian	archangel,	your	brother	in	you	who	is	ready	with	the	father	to
dress	yourself	once	again	that	bright	spirit	dress.	What	else?	He	sacrificed,	he	has	killed
the	 welfare	 calf	 which	 means	 the	 material	 body.	 Flesh	 and	 blood	 cannot	 inherit	 the
kingdom	of	the	heavens	said	Joshua	the	Christ	and	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	is	in	you
in	your	beingness	not	in	your	personality.
It	has	to	be	sacrificed.	And	he	placed	on	his	finger	a	golden	ring.	Men	do	not	understand
what	it	means.
A	golden	ring	is	the	symbol	of	eternity	beyond	time	as	past,	present	and	future	because
motion	around	a	ring	has	no	beginning	and	no	end.	The	holy	archangels	of	the	elements
do	not	have	that	ring	because	they	don't	know	what	is	time.	Many	times	I	conducted

archangels	asking	them,	what	is	time?	They	don't	understand.
Now.	What	is	past,	present,	future?	They	don't	understand.	They	understand	the	present
now.
But	 human	 beings	 now	 know	 what	 is	 past,	 present	 and	 future	 and	 eternity	 and
everlasting	life.	So	our	place	back	home	is	still	higher	than	the	place	of	anyone	of	the
holy	archangels	as	our	brothers.	Now,	one	of	the	brothers	said	complaining,	you	did	not
give	me	even	a	little	lamp	to	enjoy	myself	with	my	friends.
How?	He	was	never	incarnated.	What	could	he	give	him?	The	well-fed	calf	is	the	material
body	not	the	human	form.	The	human	form	is	the	spirit	the	spiritual	body	of	ours	which	is
now	in	us	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	in	us	entrusted	to	our	holy	brother	our	holy
archangel.
That	is	our	immortal	everlasting	state.	So,	nobody	will	lose	himself	as	an	individuality
being	dressed	in	that	spirit	body	which	I	know.	So,	there	is	no	loss.
Yet,	you	can	become	everything	you	like.	Like	casting	the	human	form	you	can	get	it
back	any	moment	you	like.	And	Joshua	Manuel	said	my	father	loves	me	and	I	love	my
father	because	I	can	lay	down	my	life	and	I	can	take	it	any	moment	I	like.
There	 is	 great	 meaning	 in	 the	 words	 of	 Joshua.	 When	 you	 reach	 that	 state	 of	 self-
superconsciousness	you	might	feel	afraid	at	the	beginning.	It	is	too	much	for	you.
But	you	will	be	encouraged	to	find	who	you	are.	You	are	a	great	one.	You	find	you	are
not	losing	anything.
You	are	guarded	by	the	holy	archangel,	your	brother,	just	to	give	you	the	last	lesson.
Come	here.	Cast	away	your	human	form.
You	are	you.	Formless,	yes.	Become	any	form	you	like	on	the	material	plane.
Tree.	Animal.	And	you	will	be	you	again.
You	are	not	losing	your	selfhood.	And	you	can	become	anything	that	means	getting	what
we	call	atonement	or	oneness	which	is	the	quality	of	the	gods.	Then	back	again.
You	are	what	you	are.	There	are,	of	course,	exercises	in	the	innermost	circles	in	which
you	learn	how	to	cast	away	even	the	human	form	and	get	it	back.	Many	are	afraid	at	the
beginning.
But	a	good	swimmer	is	not	afraid	of	plunging	in	the	water	and	swim.	Because	he	knows
how	to	come	out.	So,	when	I	put	you	the	question	what	is	life?	Do	you	know	what	is	life?
Dreaming	in	the	soil?	That's	not	life.

Getting	 angry	 about	 nothing	 but	 trivial	 things.	 Longing	 for	 what?	 Getting	 something
which	will	lose	its	value	next	moment	and	will	make	you	feel	tired.	So,	human	being	has
to	study	all	these	conditions	in	which	he	calls	life	to	understand	what's	life	behind	all
this.
And	one	can	do	it	by	practicing	to	create	good	elementals	to	compose	with	them	his
personality	 to	 transmute	 it	 into	 his	 individuality	 into	 the	 real	 self.	 To	 reach	 the	 self-
realization	to	know	that	he	or	she	is	no	sex	anymore.	We	are	losing	the	sense	of	sex.
But	 in	 the	 selfhood	 there	 is	 the	 sense	 of	 God-ship.	 Being	 God.	 Again,	 you	 are	 losing
nothing.
You	are	gaining	everything.	Something	of	my	own	experience	I	like	very	much.	It	is	going
to	cast	away	completely	my	human	form	being	in	a	place	near	the	sea	and	becoming	the
breeze	in	all	the	locality.
Yet,	 being	 me	 not	 losing	 myself	 the	 form	 is	 not	 our	 self.	 Not	 becoming	 many,	 many
things	around	you.	By	gaining,	what	I	say	expansion	of	the	self-consciousness	which	I
wish	it	someday	to	all	of	you.
But	that	means	real	satisfaction	in	life	and	real	joy.	Yes.	Now	let	us	make	an	exercise.
Relax	completely.	Start	from	the	toes	of	your	feet.	Even	our	human	form	and	our	human
body	is	good	from	the	material	point	of	view.
Because	the	work	of	the	holy	archangels	of	the	elements	is	perfect.	Now	feel	being	in	the
material	body	which	is	completely	relaxed.	The	head,	the	chest,	the	belly,	the	feet.
They	are	yours.	The	holy	archangels	who	work	and	continue	working	them	gave	them	to
you.	 But	 who	 are	 you	 now?	 They	 love	 you	 as	 you	 are,	 a	 human	 being	 with	 all	 your
weaknesses	and	they	work	for	you	to	live	in	this	material	body	of	yours.
Cooperate	with	them	to	keep	this	material	body	of	yours	in	good	health.	You	can	do	that.
Now	breathe	deeply	and	comfortably	and	feel	you	are	in	this	material	body.
Breathing	in	10	beats	I	will	make.	Breathing	out	another	10	beats.	Start.
Feel	you	are	in	the	material	body.	In	the	whole	material	body.	Put	the	question	now.
Who	am	I?	Forget	your	name.	Repeat	the	question.	Who	am	I?	What	am	I	now?	What	is
the	ego	self?	Enough.
Now,	today	before	the	sunrise	not	many	hours	ago	you	have	entered	in	a	state	of	non-
existence.	In	a	dreamless	state.	No	one	can	avoid	that.
In	every	24	hours	one	will	enter	in	this	state	of	phenomenal	non-existence.	Where	had

you	been?	What	had	you	been?	You	entered	in	the	non-existence.	After	a	little	you	woke
up.
And	you	are	you	as	you	were	you	before	getting	to	sleep.	Mary	is	Mary	and	George	is
George.	No	less,	more,	sometimes	yes,	more.
Because	 you	 can	 get	 lessons	 in	 the	 other	 worlds	 of	 other	 dimensions.	 You	 can	 come
more	experienced	and	knowing	more.	Now,	you	were	in	a	state	of	non-existence.
How	you	have	recomposed	yourself?	Yourself	of	course	was	not	your	body	lying	on	bed
sleeping.	What	are	you?	Who	are	you?	The	body?	No.	A	name?	A	personality?	Yes,	even
that.
But	who	has	recomposed	that	personality?	Again,	that	mysterious	self	of	yours	caught	in
you.	Even	recomposing	your	present	personality	and	able	to	recompose	itself	because
you	ask	who	am	I?	It's	not	only	who	are	you,	but	who	are	you?	So	I	am	leading	you	the
way.	Make	this	kind	of	meditation.
So	put	in	your	mind	willingly	or	unwillingly	in	every	24	hours	I	have	to	stay	in	this	state
of	non-existence.	Who	am	I?	Maybe	sometimes	you	get	experiences	from	the	psychical
world	 and	 you	 think	 you	 are	 dreaming.	 There	 are	 not	 such	 things	 as	 dreams	 but
experiences	 in	 worlds	 of	 different	 dimensions	 which	 later	 you	 develop	 your	 self-
consciousness	to	live	self-consciously	there	the	same	way	you	are	living	in	the	material
plane.
They	 are	 real.	 But	 what	 am	 I	 being	 able	 to	 recompose	 even	 my	 personality?	 That
understanding	nature	of	that	mysterious	self	of	yours	caught	in	you.	Yes.