

Daskalos-Mar-2-1993-B-Same-as-the-Source
Now,	who	is	now	studying	these	circumstances,	deciding	to	use	the	mind	now	and	study
the	nature	of	himself,	the	spirit,	soul,	self,	the	ego,	the	mortal	God	in	us?	Or	the	creation,
the	present-day	personality	of	a	man	or	a	woman?	Then	we	have	to	study	this	double
expression	of	ourselves,	our	real	nature	and	the	way	we	express	ourselves	in	the	world
of	existence.	Can	we	do	that?	And	how	is	it	that	we	can	do	that?	Now,	we	as	human
beings	are	creatures,	just	living	beings	as	all	other	living	things	all	around	us.	We	have
been	created	as	human	beings,	not	as	spirit,	soul,	ego.
Soul,	ego,	we	are	in	all	eternity	life,	have	never	been	born	and	will	never	cease	to	exist
and	be.	But	as	human	beings	now,	for	how	many	years	a	human	being	can	live	on	the
planet?	Saint	Paul	said,	every	day	I'm	dying.	Yes,	of	course,	every	day	you	are	changing.
They	 said	 in	 a	 lesson,	 all	 of	 you	 before	 20	 years,	 what	 had	 you	 been,	 little	 children
playing	just	on	the	floor?	What	are	you	now?	What	is	that,	boy	or	girl,	child?	You	are
grown	up	now,	not	even.	A	molecule	of	your	material	body	is	not	the	body	of	that	girl	or
boy.	But	you	are	you,	as	an	existing	being,	not	as	a	body.
That's	why	Saint	Paul	said,	every	day	I'm	dying	and	regenerated.	Who	is	regenerating?
The	body.	We	have	just	what	Christ	says,	it	is	the	spirit	which	is	the	life-giving	principle.
The	 flesh	 profits	 nothing.	 Great	 truth.	 So,	 now,	 you	 who	 are	 deciding	 to	 study	 this
matter,	by	using	now	the	mind,	because	the	seeker	of	the	truth	now	knows	what	is	the
mind.
Common	people	do	not	know	what	is	the	mind.	They	consider	it	is	simply	the	thought.
They	 don't	 know	 anything	 about	 the	 mind	 as	 super	 substance,	 substance,	 ethereal,
psychical	matter,	and	even	matter.
We	know.	Because	we	are	using	it	in	the	right	way.	Now,	who	is	using	now	the	mind,	in
knowing	what	is	what?	The	present	day	personality	self,	or	the	real	self,	in	it,	the	soul	of
it.
Both	in	one.	Because,	in	reality,	it's	one.	How	did	the	absolute	infinite	beingness,	with
the	holy	archangels,	created	the	human	being?	It	is	in	the	Bible.
It	says,	God,	the	absolute	infinite	beingness,	said,	I	say,	vibrated,	because	he	didn't	use
any	 language.	 Yes,	 sounds,	 yes,	 of	 course,	 because	 those	 vibrations	 are	 sounds.	 To
whom?	Definitive	to	the	holy	archangels,	after	being	classified	in	their	order.
Which	means	vibrating,	they	co-vibrate.	To	what?	To	the	divine	plan.	To	the	pleasure	of
the	infinite	beingness.
Saying,	let	us	create,	create,	man,	the	human	being.	How?	According	to	our	image	and

according	to	our	likeness.	Not	to	be	different	from	us.
To	be	God.	A	God.	So	even	the	human	being,	as	he	is	now,	a	sinful	self,	is	God.
And	when	Joshua	Emanuel	was	addressing	people,	he	was	addressing	the	personalities
of	 those	 people.	 Saying,	 I	 say	 to	 you	 that	 all	 of	 you	 are	 gods	 and	 offsprings	 of	 the
Almighty.	Who	now	decides	to	start	finding	out	the	nature	of	our	real	self,	the	soul,	spirit
self,	is	in	the	personality?	What	is	the	difference	now?	That	some	total	of	the	elementals,
good	or	bad,	composing	the	present	personality,	the	quality	of	it,	we	will	start	to	study.
We	call	human	egoism.	Common	people	do	not	know	that	it	is	something	very	different
from	their	own	real	self.	They	don't	know	it.
They	are	expressing	this	personal	egoism	in	their	desires,	in	their	emotions,	in	the	way
of	 living,	 in	 the	 way	 of	 behaving,	 the	 way	 of	 reacting	 to	 the	 circumstances	 of	 the
environment.	But	if	I	tell	them,	they	will	care.	You	are	not	you	now.
You	are	life.	You	are	God.	They	will	look	at	you.
Especially	being	under	the	influence	of	great	anger	against	someone,	against	somebody,
against	certain	circumstances.	Who	is	behaving	like	that?	You	or	the	personal	egoism
claiming	that	it's	you,	while	it	isn't	you.	So	you	have,	by	introspection,	find	your	real	self
and	separate	it	from	the	personality's	egoism,	masquerading	that	it's	you.
How?	We	gave	certain	just	practices	for	it,	exercises	for	it.	I	give	it	now.	By	introspection,
in	the	evening,	using	your	divine	nature	of	reproduction,	visualization,	which	you	never
studied,	yet	you	have	it	and	you	use	it	subconsciously.
You	can	bring	in	your	mind	a	scene	and	something	which	has	happened	before	some
hours.	You	can	bring	in	your	mind	and	see	the	place,	the	people,	the	person,	the	whole
event	which	took	place	there.	Meeting	a	fellow.
He	started	insulting	you,	shouting.	All	the	time	for	the	one	or	the	other	reason.	Doesn't
matter.
Then	what	happens?	Without	thinking,	you	start	just	doing	the	same	thing.	This	is	the
personal	egoism.	Masquerading	as	yourself.
There	is	a	quarrel.	Just	hard	words.	Let	us	remain	to	the	words	only.
Not	to	worse	things.	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ	knew	the	circumstances.	He	said,	one	will
strike	with	one	cheek,	turn	to	the	other.
But	this	is	not	wise.	Who	says	that?	The	egoism	says	that.	This	is	not	wise.
They	say	it	is	wise.	You	realize	that	the	other	one	being	under	that	feet	of	anger	is	a	god

like	yourself.	Being	influenced	by	circumstances	and	by	the	evil	one,	loving	that	one	as
part	of	yourself,	you	remain	calm.
And	 not	 just	 start	 fighting.	 Why	 did	 Joshua	 Manuel	 de	 Christ	 said	 that	 at	 that	 time?
Because	usually	at	that	time,	Israelites	were	carrying	with	them	a	dagger	or	a	knife	or
something	claiming	to	be	protection.	Now	let	us	see	an	imagined	thing.
Somebody	coming.	You	are	there.	You	start	with	one	reason	or	the	other	slapping	you
and	doing	that.
You	turn	to	the	other.	You	continue	slapping.	How	long?	Look	at	him	with	kindness.
You	are	looking.	Why	he	is	doing	that?	He	has	to	calm	down.	He	will	shout	and	shout	and
shouting.
Usually	 people	 are	 saying	 the	 reason.	 Then	 understand	 if	 you	 have	 done	 something
wrong,	you	said	something	wrong,	apologize.	And	make	that	brother	of	yours	your	friend
instead	of	an	enemy.
Now	suppose	he	is	slapping	you	shouting,	quarreling.	You	do	the	same	thing.	Slapping
each	other.
Kicking.	Doing	all	that.	He	throws	the	dagger.
You	do	the	same.	What	is	the	result?	At	that	time	you	are	not	thinking.	Painful	wounds.
Bloodshed.	And	the	result	maybe	the	grave	or	the	prison.	What	was	preferable?	Well,
maybe	turn	the	other	cheek	or	let	things	take	that	course.
So,	now	examining	any	event	which	had	happened	in	the	house,	in	the	office,	in	the
market,	in	the	club,	anywhere	you	are.	Things	do	happen.	People	are	fighting.
So,	bring	it	to	your	mind	in	the	evening.	In	introspection.	In	this	introspection	I	give	much
importance	just	meditating	and	making	meditations	as	Eastern	books	are	proposing.
It's	 going	 round	 and	 round	 and	 going	 nowhere.	 We	 want	 to	 have	 experiences	 and
decisions.	This	is	the	real	meditation,	the	introspection.
Then,	you	must	bring	in	your	mind	clearly.	Very	easy	thing	to	do.	It	is	our	nature	doing	it
even	subconsciously,	not	consciously.
See	people,	the	landscape	and	everything.	The	hard	words	which	you	have	said.	You	said
to	yourself,	now	I	am	not	that	fellow	before	some	hours.
Now	I	am	studying.	I	am	seeing	things	and	I	can	reason	now.	Why	did	I	say	those	hard
words?	I	said	some	hard	words.

Why	did	I	say	these	hard	words?	This	is	the	right	time.	Egoism	will	present	itself	and	then
you	will	realize	that	it's	not	you.	Yes,	of	course,	you	said	that.
You	had	to	say	that.	He	said	so	many	bad	words.	There	you	are.
You	are	not	me.	You	are	misguiding	me	before	some	hours	thinking	that	I	was	you.	Now	I
am	thinking	more	seriously.
Now	I	know	I	am	not	you.	There	are	many,	many	ways	just	to	catch	that	monster	called
personal	egoism	who	for	me	is	a	devil.	It's	just	your	own	creation,	the	demon	in	you,	the
sum	total	of	the	bad	element	that	you	have	created.
You	have	to	catch	him.	I	know	you.	You	are	not	me.
Believe	me.	That	devil	which	many,	many	times	will	present	itself	as	an	angel	of	light	as
Joshua	said	but	for	how	long	can	he	pretend	I	know	now	what's	the	reality.	I	know	first	of
all	that	I	am	not	you.
I	am	now	a	resigning	self	and	not	a	petty	little	self	under	the	influences	of	circumstances
and	of	certain	passions,	emotions,	desires.	Now	I'll	say	something	else.	You	know	what	is
the	worst?	Elemental	in	you	because	of	much,	much	mischief	to	you.
What	is	it?	That	feeling	of	being	wounded	or	being	offended.	Just	think	of	it.	That	feeling
of	being	wounded	or	being	offended	by	someone	is	the	most	dangerous	elemental,	bad
elemental	in	you.
Nobody	can	offend	another	fellow	just	by	his	behavior	in	reality.	One	is	showing	himself
not	touching	you.	Why	you	should	just	have	that	feeling	that	another	fellow	can	offend
you.
Yes,	but	of	course	he's	saying	some	hard	words	other	people	are	hearing	it	and	yes,	you
are	recording	and	you	say	I	have	been	offended	but	you	say	no.	What	he	is	doing	he	is
just	showing	his	character.	He	or	she	are	showing	I	have	been	them.
Why	should	I	feel	offended?	So	we	should	start	thinking	now	in	the	right	way.	Using	the
mind	the	heavenly	bread	in	the	right	way.	Which	is	the	right	way?	Using	it	as	a	mirror	to
see	in	it	our	real	self.
Is	there	no	other	way	now	to	see	our	real	self	except	through	the	mirror	we	call	the	mind
No.	You	have	to	pass	through	the	mind	using	it	as	those	forms	of	consciousness.	Feeling
it	as	subconsciousness.
Starting	at	waking	consciousness.	Seeing	it	as	your	self-consciousness.	Now	this	is	the
time	you	see	differently.
Then	by	developing	what	I	call	expressing	yourself	now	as	the	spirit	soul	you	don't	need

that	mirror	called	the	mind	to	know	yourself	how	that	time	you'll	feel.	No	words	can	say	I
know	but	you	cannot	know	unless	you	reach	that	stage	of	self-superconsciousness.	Is
there	no	egoism	then	in	you?	No.
Definitely	no.	You	are	taken	now	by	the	self-dignity	of	knowing	who	you	are.	And	the
self-dignity	of	knowing	who	every	other	human	being	your	brother	or	your	sister	is.
Then	you	will	understand	why	Joshua	Manuel	de	Christ	said	if	an	angry	fellow	under	just
influence	of	his	egos	would	slap	you.	Tell	the	other	chick.	What	is	reason?	And	suppose	a
fellow	 is	 striking	 someone	 whom	 he's	 striking	 not	 himself	 also	 because	 it's	 not	 very
difficult	to	understand	it	now.
But	doing	something	wrong	to	somebody	else	you	are	doing	wrong	to	your	own	self.
Happily	 not	 to	 your	 spirit	 soul	 self	 even	 to	 your	 present	 day	 personal	 self.	 I	 had	 an
experience	one	day	last	year	or	before	last	year	I	don't	remember	well.
They	brought	me	a	fellow	on	the	wheelchair.	He	couldn't	move	even	his	hands	or	his
feet.	He	was	about	17	years	of	age.
His	father	and	mother	took	him	to	Sai	Baba.	And	Sai	Baba	sent	them	away	go	to	Cipriani.
Maybe	he	will	carry.
They	 came	 disappointed	 against	 Sai	 Baba.	 Well,	 Sai	 Baba	 thought	 that	 was	 the	 best
thing	to	do.	They	came	to	me.
They	brought	that	fellow	on	the	wheelchair.	It	was	a	very	lamentable	condition.	He	was	a
German.
The	parent	told	me	that	his	name	was	Johannes.	Tell	him	Johannes.	When	he	was	there
near	me	I	knew	everything	concerning	his	life	through	the	mental	mind	reading.
Who	 was	 that	 fellow?	 During	 the	 time	 of	 Hitler	 he	 was	 one	 of	 the	 party	 killing,	 and
torturing	the	Jews.	Of	course,	when	he	found	out	that	that	was	wrong	what	happened?
They	gave	him	a	pistol	to	commit	suicide.	He	didn't	do	it	and	they	shot	him.
Passed	him	the	other	side.	He	was	born	again	in	this	most	lamentable	condition.	They
brought	him.
Of	course,	I	knew	his	name	from	his	mind.	I	told	him,	Is	it	anything	you	remember,	Fritz?
The	father	told	me,	Sir,	his	name	is	not	Fritz.	His	name,	he	said,	is	Johannes.
The	boy	turned	to	me,	turned	to	me,	so	I	said,	No,	father.	My	name	was	also	Fritz.	He
said,	Just	a	few	words	with	much	meaning	in	it.
Sir,	ask	God	to	relieve	me	of	this	situation	and	forgive	me.	I	didn't	know	the	time	I	was
crushing	the	bones	of	the	Jews	that	I	was	crushing	my	own	bones.	He	said,	A	great	truth.

I	didn't	know	the	time	I	was	crushing	the	bones	of	the	Jews	I	was	crushing	my	own	bones.
And	then	you	can	hear	Joshua	saying,	Whatever	a	man	sows,	so	he	shall	reap.	This	is	the
law	that	we	have	all	to	accept.
Yes.	The	one	is	all.	We	are	parts	of	the	same	common	locus	selfhood.
This	is	what	we	must	understand.	And	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ	said,	All	around	you
are	your	brothers	and	sisters,	fathers	and	mothers.	He	said,	He	who	believes	in	me,	I'll
give	him	many	brothers	and	sisters,	fathers	and	mothers.
Who	didn't	understand	that	time	what	he	was	saying?	He	was	saying	a	great	truth.	He
said	that	at	that	time.	Brothers,	sisters,	fathers	and	mothers.
I	say,	Myself.	He	said	that	also	only	to	his	disciples	in	the	parables	he	was	giving.	So,
understand	that	whatever	a	man	is	doing,	is	sowing,	he	shall	reap.
You	cannot	give	even	a	glass	of	water	which	will	not	be	given	back	to	you.	And	if	you
give	a	slap,	you	will	get	it	back	sooner	or	later.	This	is	the	law	in	the	material	plane.
So	we	have	to	be	careful.	In	shaping	our	own	life.	Our	life	living	is	divine	and	common	to
all.
We	are	living.	We	should	thank	God	for	living	as	human	beings	on	the	material	earth.	But
our	way	of	living	is	giving	us	responsibilities.
So	we	have	just	to	study	the	way	we	are	living	and	attuning	ourselves,	the	petty	little
personal	self,	to	our	real	inner	self	in	introspection.	Try	to	make	corrections.	What	do	I
mean	corrections?	Pulling	down	those	bricks	of	our	hell	shell	which	we	will	carry	with	us.
Why	not	pull	it	down	from	now?	Let	me	tell	you.	No	one,	first	of	all,	there	is	not	such
thing	as	death	and	annihilation	of	the	personality.	Be	sure	about	that.
But	no	one,	no	human	being,	in	living	the	material	body,	with	the	death	of	the	material
body,	will	find	himself	or	herself	in	any	hell	or	in	any	paradise.	He	or	she	is	not	already
now.	So	start	it	from	now.
Build	from	now,	if	you	like,	your	so-called	shell	paradise.	And	pull	down	those	bricks,
elementals,	dis-energizing	the	elementals,	composing	your	shell	hell.	Because	I'm	telling
you,	hells	and	paradises	do	exist.
Exist	in	the	psychical	and	in	the	noetical	planes.	These	are	not	realities.	Because	as	the
material	world	and	our	life	in	the	material	world	and	the	psychical	and	the	noetical	world
is	a	life	of	conceptions	you	have	to	study	so	that	we	get	out	of	these	conceptions	is	that
we	go	and	enter	to	the	reality	of	our	inner	self.
Joshua	 Emmanuel	 Christ	 gave	 a	 parable	 that	 a	 man	 was	 collecting	 precious	 things,

precious	stones	when	he	found	the	most	precious	pearl	and	he	bought	it.	He	said,	this	is
mine	now.	I'm	not	in	need	of	collecting	any	other	precious	things.
This	is	enough	for	me.	What	is	the	precious	pearl?	According	to	Joshua	Emmanuel	Christ.
Finding	the	real	self.
Reaching	to	what	I	say	self-realization.	This	is	the	precious	pearl.	Where	shall	we	find	it?
Where	is	it?	In	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	which	is	in	you,	in	your	own	nature.
What	 it	 means?	 It	 is	 self-sincerity	 from	 the	 petty	 little	 self	 we	 call	 now	 self	 of	 our
personality	to	enter	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	which	is	in	our	own	nature	because
we	are	all	God's	offsprings	of	the	same	Aloha	Father.	What	is	the	program?	You'll	teach
again	on	Thursday.	Tomorrow	is	a	Now	let	us	make	a	meditation.
Just	 relax	 completely.	 Start	 from	 the	 toes	 of	 the	 feet,	 the	 abdomen,	 the	 chest.	 Start
breathing	deeply	and	comfortably.
What	are	you	breathing	now?	Only	air.	air.	Or	also	I	need	the	etheric	vitality.
The	life-giving	principle	for	your	material	body.	Breathe	and	feel	the	breath.	Let	us	call	it
air.
Feel	the	air	filling	your	lungs.	I'm	telling	you	it's	not	only	air.	Air	comes	in	and	air	comes
out.
Air	gets	in	and	air	comes	out.	But	it's	something	else	in	the	air.	This	is	what	I'll	call
etheric	vitality.
Which	is	holy	archangels	in	your	body.	In	the	body	of	every	human	being,	man	or	a
woman.	 A	 Michael,	 a	 Gavriel,	 a	 Raphael,	 an	 Uriel,	 Cherubs,	 Seraphs,	 and	 other
archangels.
These	moments	are	working.	They	are	loving	you.	They	continue	to	work	and	keep	your
material	body,	the	psychical	and	the	ethical	body	in	good	health.
Help	them	do	that.	Don't	destroy	their	work	with	a	stupid	way	of	living,	hating,	getting
angry,	and	burning	all	this	etheric	vitality.	The	super	substance.
Realize	this	etheric	vitality	mind	given	to	you	as	a	human	being	by	the	divine	father.	As
etheric	vitality	to	live	in	your	body	and	also	as	the	mind	for	you	to	use	it	in	thinking	and
existing.	You	must	study	the	natures	of	the	mind	super	substance,	the	mind	substance,
the	mind	psychical	substance,	and	study	also	the	mind	matter	entrusted	to	you,	given	to
you.
Breathe	deeply	and	try	to	feel	the	parts	of	your	heart.	You	are	not	making	the	heart
beat.	Who	is	doing	it?	Listen	to	it.

Joshua	and	Mary	the	Christ	was	saying	to	his	disciples,	hear	me	in	the	parts	of	your
heart.	I	am	talking	to	you.	I	am	your	God.
You	 are	 Lord	 in	 you.	 Love	 yourself	 being	 self	 which	 is	 me,	 the	 God	 in	 you.	 Try	 to
understand	what	is	really	life.
Just	listen	to	the	parts	of	your	heart	now.	Every	parts	of	your	heart	is	a	word	of	love	from
the	locals	and	from	God.	Respond	to	it.
Say	yes.	Thank	you.	I	am	living	as	a	human	being.
Enlighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.	But	you	have	to	ask	for	it.	Ask	and	it
will	be	given	to	you.
Knock	and	it	will	be	open	to	you.	Search	and	you	shall	find.	Start	searching,	feeling	the
parts	of	your	heart	to	hear	his	divine	voice	of	love,	loving	you.
But	the	heart	of	every	other	human	being	is	beating	and	every	other	human	being	is	a
beloved	offspring	of	God	like	you.	And	you	can	never	be	an	enemy	to	any	other	human
being	without	being	enemy	to	God	in	you.	This	was	the	teaching	and	the	preaching	of
Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ.
For	this	purpose	he	came	down	to	the	world.	Just	feel	the	parts	of	your	heart	and	say	I
am	not	doing	that.	You	are	doing	it	for	me.
And	the	holy	archangels	my	brethren	in	my	body	are	working	for	me.	And	I	am	living	in
this	material	body	and	the	other	bodies	by	grace	and	not	by	right.	I	will	live	by	right
when	I	will	make	the	self	realization	to	know	that	I	am	they.
Make	your	material	body	the	temple	of	God.	And	make	the	heart	in	your	material	body
its	altar	to	worship	him.	Worship	him	in	you	in	your	own	being	and	worship	him	in	every
other	human	being	without	distinction.
All	human	beings	are	brothers	and	sisters.	When	Joshua	was	born	the	holy	archangels
approaching	the	earth	were	singing	glory	to	God	in	the	highest.	And	on	earth	peace.
Good	will	towards	all	human	beings.	Enough.	Now	there	is	a	class	of	people	all	around
the	planet.
Certain	hour	every	day	just	for	some	minutes	five	ten	fifteen	no	need	for	more.	At	least
once	 every	 day.	 You	 just	 stop	 every	 work	 everything	 calm	 completely	 down	 all	 their
emotions	and	their	thoughts	and	send	out	a	very	powerful	elemental	peace	on	earth.
Love	towards	all	human	beings.	It	is	not	necessary	to	coincide	the	hour	usually	in	Cyprus
we	make	it	at	nine	o'clock	or	if	we	are	engaged	in	that	time	in	any	other	time.	So	every
hour	human	beings	all	around	the	planet	are	sending	out	this	elemental	of	peace.

Do	it.	Believe	me	the	human	beings	need	it	very	very	badly	because	you	will	see	now	on
the	planet	there	is	not	any	place	on	the	planet	there	is	not	bloodshed.	Unfortunately	the
such	demon	called	Amote	is	doing	his	work	in	contaminating	the	minds	of	human	beings
and	their	hearts.
So	get	some	time	and	at	least	for	five	minutes	every	day	send	out	thoughts	of	love
towards	all	with	the	great	wish	that	peace	may	rule	over	the	planet.