

Daskalos-May-11-1992-B-EthericDoubles
Now,	which	is	this	light,	beyond	the	material	light,	of	reflection,	that	we	should	know?
What	St.	John	or	Johann	writes	in	the	Gospel,	according	to	St.	John's	Gospel,	about	the
locus.	 The	 locus	 means	 manifestation.	 It	 is	 the	 real	 pleasure	 of	 the	 absolute	 infinite
beingness,	manifested	by	the	absolute	beingness.
Now,	we	call	it	the	locus.	The	manifestation.	It	writes	that,	in	the	absolute	authority,	is
always	the	locus.
The	locus	is	in	God,	and	God	is	the	locus,	the	manifestation.	And,	continues,	in	it	is	life,
and	the	life	is	the	light	of	all	men.	And	the	life	is	the	light	of	all	men.
So,	this	light	now,	is	what	we	call	the	self-consciousness	of	the	human	beings.	So,	our
self-consciousness	is	the	light,	knowledge,	conception,	understanding,	by	being	human
beings.	It	needs	analysis.
And,	the	life	of	the	locus,	Joshua	Manuel	de	Caz	was	feeling	himself	completely	being	the
locus.	Because	he	emanated	directly	from	the	locus	to	come	for	a	certain	mission.	It	says
clearly,	and	the	life,	and	he	said,	I	am	the	way,	I	am	the	truth,	and	life,	now,	what	are	the
characteristics	of	life?	And	the	light	is,	and	the	life	is	the	light	of	men,	of	human	beings.
That	means	of	the	self-consciousness,	of	our	self-consciousness.	Not	of	ourselves,	of	our
self-consciousness.	There	are	two	different	things.
The	self,	is	our	self,	immortal,	eternal,	God.	The	self-consciousness	now	is	the	expression
of	 that	 self,	 using	 the	 mind	 as	 super-substance,	 as	 substance,	 as	 ether,	 as	 matter,
creating	a	self-consciousness	in	a	material	body,	in	a	human	being.	But	the	human	being
is	a	creature,	like	all	other	creatures,	and	are	different	from	the	other	creatures.
All	the	other	creatures	are	living	around	us,	all	the	animal	kingdom	are	living,	they	are
alive.	But	they	are	not	the	light	of	life,	and	the	life	is	the	light	of	all	men,	creating	the
human	consciousness.	And	no	animal	around	us	is	developing	a	human	consciousness	or
a	self-consciousness.
So	we	must	study,	what's	a	human	self-consciousness,	what's	a	self-consciousness,	and
what	 is	 consciousness,	 apart	 from	 being	 expressed.	 Because	 these	 are	 rather	 very
difficult	 things,	 which	 one	 must	 know,	 personally,	 by	 his	 own	 experiences,	 after
developing	all	these	stages	of	the	consciousness,	from	subconsciousness,	which	is	the
awakened	consciousness,	the	self-consciousness,	the	self-super-consciousness,	and	then
find	out	that	I	am	not	the	expression	as	consciousness,	but	I	am	the	self.	Now,	I	am
afraid	I	am	in	very	deep	waters	now.
It	is	not	easy	to	come	out	of	it	at	the	time	being	of	your	development.	Separate	what	is
self	from	self-conscious	expression	and	the	various	stages	of	consciousness.	So	there	are

fields,	 vast	 fields	 of	 research	 to	 find	 out	 who	 you	 are,	 what	 you	 are,	 what	 are	 your
bodies,	how	the	holy	archangels	are	building	them	and	dealing	with	your	bodies.
And	 you	 must	 start	 knowing	 things	 and	 do	 the	 same	 thing.	 There	 is	 another	 way	 of
finding	 yourself,	 your	 real	 self,	 apart	 from	 a	 form	 and	 a	 name,	 male	 or	 female,	 with
weaknesses,	 desires,	 weaknesses,	 hatred,	 jealousy,	 and	 so	 many	 other	 things.	 So	 we
have	to	become	masters	of	all	that	so	that	we	come	to	what	I	call	self-realization	in	two
stages.
Self-realization	of	our	present	day	personality	self,	then	beyond	that,	through	that,	we
must	find	out	our	real	self.	Find	out	who	we	are	at	first	and	then	what	we	are	beyond
who	we	are	in	time	and	place,	space.	I	say	there	is	vast	field.
Sooner	or	later,	everybody	has	to	go	through	all	these	experiences	because	we	are	gods.
We	are	the	lost	sons	who	sooner	or	later	have	to	come	back	to	our	home,	to	our	real
nature,	to	awaken	in	us	ourselves	as	gods.	Because	if	you	study	now	the	way	and	the
conditions	human	beings	are	living	all	over	the	planet,	in	all	parts	of	the	world,	highly
civilized,	 civilized,	 or	 uncivilized,	 you	 will	 find	 that	 the	 human	 being	 is	 living
subconsciously	and	heavily	intoxicated	by	matter.
You	have	to	go	beyond	matter.	I	said	not	rejecting	matter.	No.
Enjoy	matter.	Matter	is	created	and	we	are	creating	a	material	body.	We	ourselves	are
the	holy	archangels	just	to	enjoy	material	things	around	us.
There	is	no	prohibition	in	that.	And	in	asking,	even	Joshua,	the	man	of	the	cross,	said,
ask	and	it	will	be	given	to	you.	Seek	and	you	will	find.
Ask	and	it	will	be	given	to	you,	but	seek	and	you	will	find	the	truth.	You	have	to	seek	the
truth.	So,	no	need	of	rejecting	or	denying	yourself	even	material	things	and	enjoy	them
and	love	them.
But	what	we	have	just	to	get	rid	of	is	the	enchantment	of	things,	becoming	ourselves
slaves	of	things.	The	things	are	to	serve	us	and	not	to	enslave	us.	Instead,	we	forget	who
we	are,	what	we	are,	what	is	the	aim	of	life.
So,	by	developing	the	so-called	consciousness	in	its	various	stages	or	degrees,	we	study
first	who	we	are	as	a	male	and	female	person,	what	we	are	as	soul,	what	is	our	I-ness,
what	is	that	selfhood,	and	then	what	is	our	beingness,	what	are	we	as	beings	now,	and
not	human	beings,	even	human	beings,	because	in	a	human	body	is	the	being,	it's	you,	a
spirit	and	soul.	But	you	have	to	find	it	out,	to	awaken	in	your	present-day	personalities
self-consciousness,	the	real	self.	There	is	no	excuse.
The	whole	archangels	are	forcing	us	to	breathe	and	live,	even	a	material	body,	so	that
the	material	body	will	live	and	in	it	we	will	experience	the	life	as	present-day	personality,

self.	But	you	have	been	granted	the	mind	to	use	it	as	substance,	apart	from	the	ethereal,
as	substance,	super	substance,	to	use	it,	developing	in	our	etheric	table	the	skill	and	the
ability	of	using	the	imprinting	ether,	formulating	it	into	images,	into	things.	You	are	doing
it	subconsciously,	building	up	subconsciously	things	you	like	to	have,	to	possess,	and
which	are	just	drawing	your	attention.
But	it's	not	only	that.	They	enslave	you.	This	is	what	we	have	to	do.
Know	things,	enjoy	things,	love	things,	but	not	become	the	slaves	of	anything	material,
anything	psychical,	and	anything	nautical.	Use	them.	Because	the	fascination	is	not	only
in	the	material	plane,	it	starts	from	the	so-called	psychical	body.
Because	desires,	emotions,	and	all	that	are	brooding	in	the	so-called	psychical	body,	in
what	we	call	subconsciousness.	So	you	have	to	know	what	is	in	the	subconscious	mind,
in	the	personality	of	man,	and	control	it.	Know	it	and	control	it.
Control	emotion	and	control	the	mind.	Using	it	now,	not	as	a	slave	of	the	emotions	and
desires,	but	the	master	of	them.	But	we	should	be	the	master	of	it	also.
Because	there	is	another	fear	of	enslaving	yourself	to	the	thoughts.	So	the	idea	is	to	get
free	of	the	slavery	to	the	phenomena	around	you.	To	find	your	real	self.
Now,	 returning	 again	 back	 to	 the	 etheric	 double	 of	 our	 material	 body.	 You	 have
described	 it	 as	 the	 most	 form,	 changing	 all	 the	 time.	 And	 by	 that	 change,	 the	 whole
material	body	is	changing	because	this	is	in	that	mode	constructed.
Organ	 by	 organ,	 blood	 cells,	 everything.	 Now,	 we	 should	 study,	 concentrating	 on	 the
etheric	double,	that	its	energy	or	force	or	power	constantly	comes	from	the	etheric	world
of	the	planet,	from	the	psychical	and	the	nautical.	Because	they	are	connected.
And	we	see	after	study	that	our	psychical	body	has	an	etheric	double	and	our	nautical
body	has	an	etheric	double.	This	etheric	double	with	the	etheric	double	of	the	material
body	is	the	link	between	the	bodies.	We	must	learn	how	to	keep	that	link.
Then,	we	have	to	learn	and	know	the	centers	of	energy	on	the	etheric	double	and	in	the
etheric	double,	the	surface	and	in	it,	which	are	corresponding	to	certain	organs	of	the
material	body.	These,	the	Hindus	are	calling	them	the	chakras.	We	should	know	them,
study	them,	and	use	them	wisely.
Most	 people,	 knowing,	 reading	 books	 from	 the	 East	 on	 these	 so-called	 chakras,	 they
believe	and	they	think	they	are	located	on	the	material	body.	Wrong.	It	is	not	the	etheric
double.
But,	they	can	influence	the	material	body.	And	concentration	on	certain	of	these,	we	call
them	etheric	centers,	may	create	damages	on	certain	organs	of	the	material	body.	So,

one	should	be	careful.
And	I	am	telling	you,	I	have	seen	many,	many	people	who	happen	to	have	a	book	of
yoga,	Kata	yoga	and	all	that,	from	the	East,	and	started	concentrating	on	the	various
centers,	 on	 the	 various	 organs	 of	 the	 body,	 without	 knowing	 that	 they	 were	 on	 the
centers,	 disturbing	 the	 organs	 and	 causing	 great	 damages.	 So,	 we	 must	 learn	 these
etheric	centers.	But	it	needs	much	care.
First	of	all,	there	are	many,	many,	many	centers	of	energy,	the	etheric	double.	It	is	like	a
sponge,	getting	the	etheric	vitality,	giving	it	to	the	material	body.	And,	every	pore	of	the
material	body	is	a	center.
How	will	make	the	pore	breathing	something	to	be	given	in	higher	circles?	It	is	breathing
the	ethereal	substance.	Other	centers	of	energy	are	the	fingers,	the	tips	of	the	fingers.
They	are	creating	what	we	call	fingerprints.
They	are	not	of	so	much	importance.	Every	toe	has	a	center	of	energy.	Then,	we	have
also	centers	in	other	parts	of	the	etheric	double,	corresponding	to	the	material	body.
The	 whole	 foot,	 the	 knees,	 and	 other	 parts.	 Important	 centers	 of	 energy	 under	 the
control	of	the	Holy	Archangels	are	the	genitals.	It	is	what	we	call	the	solar	plexus.
It	is	the	heart.	It	is	the	spleen.	The	spleen.
And	the	liver.	Because	the	Easterners	do	not	know	other	centers,	but	we	know	more.	The
lungs.
The	lungs	are	centers.	They	give	us	two	other	centers	in	the	head,	in	the	human	brains.
These	are	the	main	centers.
But	we	have	centers	in	every	eye,	in	every	nostril,	in	the	tip	of	the	tongue,	in	every	part
of	the	face.	When	we	start	using	the	etheric	double	and	the	etheric	vitality	of	the	human
body,	we	have	to	start	concentrating	on	every	part	of	the	material	body,	the	surface	of
it.	We	shouldn't	concentrate	in	the	heart.
It	is	most	dangerous.	Concentrating	in	the	solar	plexus	is	not	dangerous	at	all.	So	we	can
start	there.
Concentrating	 in	 the	 genitals	 is	 also	 dangerous.	 Nature	 takes	 care	 of	 the	 genitals.
Everybody	knows	how	they	function,	though	most	people	are	making	very,	very	bad	use
of	these	holy	organs.
Really,	very	bad	use.	I	am	telling	you,	at	least	80%	of	all	the	illnesses	of	the	human	body
come	from	the	bad	use	of	these	organs,	on	a	man	or	a	woman.	Now,	in	our	center,	we
can	concentrate	in	the	solar	plexus.

What	does	it	give?	Something	known	all	through	the	centuries,	and	you	can	find	it	even
in	 the	 Old	 Testament.	 It	 opens	 the	 gates	 of	 your	 subconsciousness	 to	 the	 psychical
world.	But,	is	it	wise	to	wake	it	up?	Before	controlling	your	emotions,	your	desires,	and
your	present-day	personality?	Because	suppose	you	open	and	you	find	yourself	in	the
hell	you	are	now,	of	envy,	of	jealousy,	of	hatred,	and	you	see	things	that	happily	you
cannot	see	now.
Is	that	wise?	Many	are	working,	and	they	are	under	obsessions.	So,	it	is	not	advised	to	do
that	 before	 getting	 mastery	 over	 desires,	 emotions,	 and	 his	 own	 personality's
weaknesses.	You	must	be	careful	about	that.
Now,	in	the	heart,	we	should	never	concentrate.	This	is	the	seed	of	the	locus.	But,	certain
exercises	we	are	doing,	you	are	allowed	to	do,	is	by	kinetic	and	aesthetic	ether	to	move
around	and	touch	certain	centers,	not	concentrating	on	them.
By	using	the	imprinting	ether,	you	have	to	use	the	colors.	Use,	at	the	beginning,	disks	of
light	moving	around	them	and	passing	through	certain	centers,	and	later	use,	what	you
call,	the	spheres,	holy	spheres,	moving	on	them,	in	the	center	of	them.	But,	of	course,
this	training	and	this	teaching	is	given	to	the	innermost	circles.
So,	we	have	also	the	head.	At	first,	we	use,	what	you	call,	the	disk,	and	then	the	sphere.
How	do	we	do	that?	Creating	an	elemental	and	moving	on	that	elemental.
Having	 it	 in	 our	 etheric	 double.	 Immediately	 imprinted	 on	 the	 etheric	 double	 of	 our
psychical	body	and	of	our	medical	body.	But,	before	trying	to	do	that,	we	must	get	the
skill	of	visualization.
That	means,	using	what	we	call	the	imprinting	ether	of	our	etheric	double.	So,	it	needs
some	exercises	until	we	become	masters	of	the	visualization.	Let's	start	working	through
the	kinetic	and	the	feeling-giving	or	aesthetic	ether	in	our	material	bodies	on	the	etheric
double	and	in	the	etheric	double	of	our	material	body.
By	so	doing,	now	we	know	that	not	only	it	exists,	but	we	can	use	it.	Nobody	will	tell	you
you	don't	know	because	you	use	it	now.	And	by	using	it,	you	know	and	you	are	sure	of	its
existence.
Now,	what	are	the	powers,	let	us	call	them	like	that,	granted	to	you?	No!	Which	you
develop	in	you,	you	have	them.	You	simply	bring	them	to	the	surface.	Nothing	is	given	to
you.
You	have	it	and	you	develop	it.	That's	all.	Which	are	these?	Projection.
Science	calls	it	telepathy.	Psychology.	Psychometry.
You	can	get	the	vibrations	of	anything	you	can	hand	and	feel	it.	It	is	using	the	feeling	or

aesthetic	ether	of	our	etheric	double.	So	there	are	many,	very	many	let	us	call	them
powers.
People	call	them	psychical	powers.	It's	wrong.	These	are	ethereal	powers.
Not	psychical	powers.	The	psychical	powers	are	still	beyond	and	this	is	controlling	and
mastering	your	desires	and	emotions.	These	are	what	we	call	understanding	and	feeling.
So	what	people	call	psychical	powers	are	not	at	all	psychical.	They	are	things	you	gain
by	controlling	the	etheric	double	of	your	material	body.	Even	projection.
What	is	exosomatosis	now?	And	what	is	different	from	projection?	Now	exosomatosis	is
when	you	leave	the	material	body	and	using	the	psychical	body	and	the	ethical	body,
you	move	anywhere	you	like	on	the	planet.	That's	exosomatosis.	But	then	you	are	not
using	at	all	the	etheric	double	of	your	material	body	because	you	said	it	cannot	leave	the
material	body.
Of	course	you	can	make	an	elemental	using	your	etheric	double	of	the	material	body
entering	it	and	project	it.	Project	it	where?	Anywhere	you	like!	Can	I	do	three	or	four	or
five	of	them	and	project	them	in	many	places	and	get	information	at	the	same	time	from
all	those	places	through	those	elementals	of	myself?	Yes,	but	you	have	first	to	develop
your	 self	 super-consciousness	 which	 is	 not	 a	 work	 in	 the	 etheric	 double.	 When	 one
develops	the	self	super-consciousness	can	project	elementals	of	himself	any	number	on
any	part	of	the	world	and	get	information	of	what	he	wants.
Not	of	that	moment	only	but	piercing	this	sense	of	time	and	place	because	the	place	is
changing	all	the	time.	It	is	under	constant	change.	Shall	we	call	that	visualization?	It	is	a
kind	of	visualization	but	you	receive	not	the	one	you	create.
Of	course	there	are	not	words	to	express	all	of	these	phenomena	which	one	can	develop.
So,	any	practical	use	of	it?	More	practical	for	the	psychotherapists?	Yes,	of	course	it	is.	It
is	enough.
Visualization	 and	 concentration	 and	 using	 just	 the	 etheric	 double	 reaching	 a	 certain
organ	 corresponding	 to	 that	 center,	 you	 can	 use	 your	 willpower	 to	 remove	 pain	 and
restore	health	in	your	body	or	in	the	body	of	anybody	else	provided	you	are	permitted	by
the	Holy	Spirit.	Provided	that	fellow	is	not	under	the	burden	of	a	debt	he	has	to	pay,	not
as	punishment	but	as	a	lesson,	a	precious	lesson.	This	again	is	something	you	have	to
study	by	using	the	mind	and	logic.
When	you	do	things,	I	was	speaking	about	the	so-called	psychotherapists,	and	you	see
that	you	send	the	etheric	vitality	and	even	through	visualization	you	see	things.	You	find
obstacles.	Don't	fight	with	the	will	of	the	Holy	Spirit.
Just	make	a	prayer.	And	you	never	know	the	extent	of	the	mercy	of	the	Holy	Spirit	and	of

the	Almighty.	So	these	are	things	which	one	personally	has	to	investigate	and	study.
Now,	relax	completely	your	material	body.	Relax	Relax	completely.	Every	muscle	should
be	relaxed.
Start	from	the	feet.	Breathe	deeply	and	comfortably,	not	with	difficulty.	Inhale,	exhale.
Exhale.	Inhaling,	four	beats,	which	I	will	do	myself	now.	Exhaling,	again	four	beats,	first
feeling	the	lower	part	of	your	chest.
Start	breathing.	Exhale.	Inhaling.
Exhaling.	Inhaling.	Do	it	consciously.
Inhale.	Out.	Inhale.
Exhale.	Inhale.	Exhale.
Exhale.	Inhale.	Now,	when	you	are	alone,	do	it	for	five	minutes.
Inhaling,	these	beats	are	the	beats	of	your	heart.	Feeling	the	lower	part,	then	the	upper
part,	then	exhaling,	emptying	first	the	lower	part	and	then	the	upper	part.	Some	of	you
who	are	in	doubt,	apply	to	Paul	and	Paul	will	show	you	how	to	do	that.
Breathing	is	the	most	important	thing	for	the	life	of	the	material	body.	Have	it	in	your
mind.	Well,	it	is	something	I	would	say	now,	which	you	don't	like,	but	I	have	to	say	that.
Nothing	more	stupid	than	smoking.	You	don't	need	tobacco	in	the	smoke.	In	your	lungs,
you	need	oxygen	and	etheric	vitality.
So,	it	is	a	very,	very	bad	habit.	Smoking.	The	lungs	are	in	need	of	oxygen	and	etheric
vitality	and	not	nicotine.
Which,	apart	from	making	damages	in	the	lungs,	it	is	also	poisoning	the	whole	blood
system.	Of	course,	I	leave	it	to	the	medical	doctors	just	to	elaborate	on	that	thing.	I	am
not	going	to	mention	that.
The	 only	 thing	 I	 say	 is	 that	 smoking	 is	 a	 necessary	 thing	 for	 our	 life.	 So,	 breathing
properly	through	the	nostrils	with	closed	mouth	it	is	the	life	of	our	material	body.	So,	the
first	thing	you	have	to	know	is	using	the	aesthetic	and	the	kinetic	ether	of	the	etheric
double	in	breathing.
But	 use	 it	 now	 consciously.	 You	 are	 breathing	 subconsciously	 without	 noticing	 it	 or
knowing	 it.	 Now,	 we	 have	 at	 least	 for	 some	 time	 taken	 away	 from	 our	 head	 every
thought,	every	feeling	and	concentrate	only	in	breathing	for	five	minutes.
What	will	be	the	result?	You	will	find	it	out.	Tomorrow	we	will	continue	the	lesson	on	how

to	create	constructing	elementals	in	helping	you	in	your	work	and	how	you	will	be	using
this	what	we	call	etheric	vitality	consciously.	We	give	more	exercises	in	moving	kinetic
ether,	 diastatic	 ether	 around	 discs	 which	 you	 will	 create	 as	 elementals	 in	 the	 etheric
double	of	your	material	body.
So,	some	of	you	who	have	devoured	eastern	books	and	you	are	in	confusion	because	I
can	get	it	from	your	thoughts	have	many,	many	questions.	You	will	give	these	questions
to	 Paul	 or	 to	 others	 and	 of	 course	 if	 these	 questions	 are	 only	 lessons	 not	 personal
questions	 only	 lessons	 on	 your	 doubts	 of	 what	 you	 have	 studied	 until	 now	 will	 be
answered	 as	 a	 lesson	 but	 serious	 questions	 please	 Are	 you	 going?	 Telling	 me	 to	 go?
Everybody	is	waiting	for	you.	Everybody	is	waiting	for	you.
I	know.	Let	me	breathe.	Thank	you.