

Daskalos	-	A	Knock	and	it	shall	be	Opened	1
Our	Father	who	art	in	heaven,	hallowed	be	thy	name.	Thy	kingdom	come,	thy	will	be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread	and	forgive	us	our
transgressions	as	we	forgive	those	who	are	transgressing	against	us.
And	lead	us	while	being	in	temptation.	Deliver	us	from	evil.	For	thine	is	the	kingdom	and
the	power	and	the	glory	forever.
Absolute,	infinite	beingness,	God.	Everlasting	life,	love	and	mercy.	Manifesting	yourself
in	yourself	as	your	total	wisdom	and	your	all-mightiness.
Enlighten	our	minds	to	understand	you	as	the	truth.	Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love
towards	you	and	towards	all	other	human	beings.	Amen.
A	human	being	finds	himself	or	herself	living	in	a	human	body,	living	in	this	material
plane,	 nature,	 all	 around	 us.	 All	 this	 nature	 around	 us	 is	 all	 the	 time	 influencing	 us,
throwing	our	attention	through	the	five	senses.	We	are	living	in	this	material	world	with
our	material	body	using	the	five	senses.
But	 how	 we	 are	 living?	 Just	 simply	 counteracting	 to	 the	 influences	 through	 the	 five
senses.	What	is	this	kind	of	life	in	what	we	call	the	material	world	around	us?	Usually	we
call	life	the	interest	we	show	in	what	we	call	the	material	world	all	around	us.	But	is	it
what	we	should	call	life?	We	call	life	just	all	those	influences	and	reactions	in	us	causing
us	interest,	what	we	might	say	desires,	and	thinking	over	the	desires.
No.	 Most	 people	 do	 not	 use	 the	 thought	 just	 thinking	 and	 knowing	 what	 is	 what,	 but
simply	how	this	thought	to	serve	the	accomplishment	of	their	desires.	Nothing	more	than
that.
So	 human	 beings	 are	 living	 subconsciously	 without	 knowing	 why	 they	 are	 living	 and
what's	life.	If	I	put	this	question	to	people	around	me,	what's	life?	Would	they	be	able	to
reply	what	is	life?	What	do	you	think	they	may	understand	that	it	is	life?	Feeling,	seeing,
being	influenced	by	the	surroundings.	What	is	in	the	world	outside	of	our	material	body
and	receiving	impressions	through	the	light?	The	light.
You	ask	them,	what's	the	light?	What	is	the	role	of	light	in	our	life?	They	never	care.	They
simply	live	in	their	material	bodies,	as	other	phenomena	of	life	are	living,	waking	up	in
the	morning,	a	phenomenon	they	never	engage	themselves	to	understand	what	it	is.
What's	sleep?	What's	waking	up?	Who	is	waking	up?	What	they	care,	simply	the	human
beings	now,	is	how	to	fulfill	their	desires	or	just	the	necessities	of	life.
And	so	they	find	out	that	there	are	certain	things	which	are	most	necessary.	Taking	food,
searching	for	food,	and	they	do	it	instinctively	as	all	the	other	living	beings	around	them
are	doing,	just	expressing	what	you	call	instinct.	But	you	said	in	previous	lessons,	the

human	beings	can	use	thought	which	the	other	phenomena	of	life	in	the	animal	kingdom
cannot	use.
Yes,	 we	 can	 see	 a	 kind	 of	 intelligence	 in	 their	 expressions,	 but	 what	 are	 these
intelligences	expressed	by	the	animals?	Is	it	using	the	mind	consciously,	self-consciously,
or	these	are	other	expressions?	Now	studying	the	behavior	of	the	animals,	we	can	detect
the	intelligence	behind	them,	caring	about	those	kinds	of	animals	around	us.	The	human
being	can	see	that	he	can	influence	all	the	animals,	even	the	vegetable	life	around	them.
The	human	being	can	influence	them	subconsciously	by	thought.
That	 means	 by	 casting	 elementals,	 which	 elementals,	 as	 living	 things	 can	 affect	 the
animal	life	all	around	us.	They	do	all	that	subconsciously,	without	knowing	what	they	do.
A	human	being	feels	he	loves	animals,	cats,	dogs,	or	other	kinds	of	animals.
He's	 keeping	 them	 with	 him,	 and	 he	 finds	 that	 there	 is	 a	 common	 ground	 of
understanding	between	the	animal	and	the	human	being.	Is	that	the	intelligence	of	the
animal,	or	subconsciously	the	human	being	is	creating	an	elemental	which	is	attached	to
the	animal	and	making	that	animal,	that	kind	of	life,	bring	that	animal	to	him	or	to	her?
By	what?	By	what	we	say	love,	interest,	compassion.	So	we	must	study	all	these	cases	to
understand,	after	all,	what	is	animal	life?	What	is	life?	What	is	our	life?	What	common
thing	we	have	with	the	life	all	around	us?	So,	a	human	being	has	the	right	and	should
use	the	mind	in	knowing	things,	in	understanding	things	by	observation,	and	meditation,
and	reasoning.
Something	animals	around	us	cannot	do,	and	he	will	find	out	that	all	animal	life	around
us	 can	 express	 an	 instinctive,	 let	 us	 call	 it	 subconsciousness,	 which	 he	 or	 she	 is
expressing	also.	But	an	animal,	any	kind	of	animals	around	us,	cannot	express	a	self-
consciousness,	have	a	name	of	itself,	unless	we	give	it	a	name.	And	he	may	listen	to	that
name	through	the	elementals	we	are	casting	and	implanting	in	that	animal.
So	a	human	being	should	use	the	mind	to	study	and	understand	what's	nature	around
him,	living,	what	are	the	circumstances,	the	possibilities	and	probabilities	in	this,	what
we	 call,	 life	 in	 a	 material	 body,	 in	 a	 material	 world,	 so	 that	 we	 should	 go	 forward	 in
studying	what	is	this	kind	of	self,	which	we	can	express,	yet	no	animal	around	us	in	the
material	plane	can	express	that	selfhood.	Mind,	when	I	say	self,	is	not	simply	using	the
mind	 in	 certain	 expressions	 as	 instinct	 or	 even	 subconsciousness.	 Consciousness,	 no
animal	is	conscious	of	its	way	of	living.
All	animals	obey	instinct.	Now,	what	is	instinct?	We	can	see	this	thing	in	all	the	nature	all
around	 us.	 By	 studying	 it,	 we	 shall	 understand	 that	 kind	 of	 intelligence	 behind	 the
phenomena	of	life,	all	the	phenomena	of	life,	not	only,	I	say,	in	the	animal	kingdom,	also
in	the	vegetable	kingdom.
And	we	see	much	wisdom	in	it.	That	means	we	can	trace	the	total	wisdom	of	infinite

beingness	in	all	the	creation	all	around	us.	And	really,	one	should	be	wondering	with	this
wisdom.
One	will	observe	that	this	wisdom	serves	for	the	protection	of	this	kind	of	animal	life	or
plant	life	in	the	material	world.	And	you	will	be	wondering,	who	is	thinking?	Is	there	any
self-intelligent	 being	 behind	 it?	 For	 example,	 studying	 the	 cactus,	 many,	 many
thousands	of	kinds,	and	each	kind,	the	characteristic	would	see	the	protection.	It	has	to
protect	itself	from	the	birds	and	from	the	animals	all	around.
Any	kind	of	cactus	is	developing	thorns.	Who	thought	about	it?	To	protect	that	kind	of
life.	And	then	another	kind	of	protection,	the	bear.
When	meeting	a	bear	in	the	pool,	the	bear	will	find	it	having	a	white	fur.	A	bear	in	the
forests	 of	 Africa	 or	 of	 Asia	 will	 have	 a	 brown.	 Why?	 One	 to	 resemble	 the	 ice	 for
protection,	and	the	other	to	resemble	the	trunks	of	the	trees	and	the	surroundings,	again
for	protection.
Who	decided	to	do	that?	So	we	see	in	nature,	all	around	us,	a	kind	of	life	we	cannot
understand,	yet	behind	every	kind	of	life,	enough	protection.	Even	studying	the	forms	in
which	this	animal	life	is	expressed,	we'll	find	again	that	protection.	We	call	it	the	total
wisdom	of	the	infinite	beingness.
But	 this	 total	 wisdom	 of	 the	 infinite	 beingness	 is	 expressed	 also	 in	 the	 beings	 in	 the
absolute	infinite	beingness,	manifesting	and	expressing	the	absolute	infinite	beingness
and	 themselves	 in	 the	 creation.	 So	 by	 observation	 and	 using	 the	 mind,	 we	 can	 learn
many,	many	things.	And	we	find	ourselves	living	in	an	environment	in	nature	most	wisely
looked	after.
And	 the	 only	 entity	 which	 is	 making	 blunders	 is	 the	 human	 being.	 The	 human	 being
entitled	to	use	the	mind	reasoning	and	thinking	over	things.	Of	course,	he	should	do	less
blunders	and	live	in	a	better	way	of	life	by	using	the	mind.
Now,	is	the	human	being	protected	adequately	as	all	other	animal	and	vegetable	life
around	 him?	 And	 yes	 and	 no.	 Why?	 We	 see	 a	 cat,	 dogs,	 animals,	 when	 winter	 is
approaching,	they	grow	hair	to	protect	them	from	the	cold.	Who	decided	about	it?	Those
keeping	domestic	animals	will	notice	that	in	cats.
Then	when	summer	approaches,	then	they	cast	away	the	hair.	Just	to	have	it	again	when
the	winter	period	approaches.	Is	the	intelligence	of	that	animal	that	is	doing	that	thing?
No.
And	 by	 observation	 and	 studying,	 developing	 in	 a	 human	 being	 higher	 forms	 of
intelligence,	 he	 can	 come	 in	 touch	 with	 those	 intelligences.	 We	 call	 them	 angels	 or
nature	spirits	who	look	after	the	animal	and	the	vegetable	life	all	around	us	and	can
trace	this	total	wisdom	of	the	almightiness,	can	trace	order	in	nature	and	in	the	creation.

So,	studying	now	things.
One	 should	 start	 to	 study	 that	 mind,	 ethereal	 vibrations	 we	 call	 light	 in	 the	 material
world.	What	is	light?	It's	most	necessary	in	our	life.	Again	I	say	those	ethereal	vibrations
and	frequencies	of	the	substance	we	call	the	mind.
One	 sees	 that	 light	 emanates	 from	 the	 sun	 and	 from	 anything	 combustible,	 burning,
giving	a	flame.	Who	did	care	to	study	what	is	fire,	what	is	light?	Yet	subconsciously	man
started	 using	 the	 fire	 without	 knowing	 what	 it	 is.	 Human	 being	 found	 out	 that	 this
element,	we	call	it	fire,	behaves	in	that	or	in	that	way	on	the	combustible	material	things
and	he's	using	it	but	he	never	cared	what	it	is	and	why	is	it	like	that.
So,	the	human	being	today	is	lacking	what	I	call	observation	and	using	the	mind	now	and
observation	and	concentration	to	find	the	relative	truth	in	the	material	world	around	him.
Now,	let	us	watch	light,	the	effects	of	light.	During	a	very	dark	night	you	find	yourself	in
this	room.
No	light	emanating	from	candles	or	from	anywhere.	It's	dark.	The	chairs	are	here.
Everything	that	is	here	now,	it	will	be	here.	You	don't	see	anything.	If	you	try	to	move
about,	you'll	stumble	here	and	there.
So,	light	is	necessary	just	to	excite	what	we	call	the	sight,	that	sense	of	seeing.	Whoever
did	care	to	study	this	phenomenon,	what	is	light	and	what	is	going	on?	Now,	we	have
light	emanating	now	from	the	sun	filling	the	room	with	light.	How	do	we	see	things?	The
light	just	in	rays	is	striking	on	surfaces,	only	surfaces.
The	material	light	cannot	penetrate	solid	surfaces	and	is	reflected.	Man	has	to	study	all
these	things.	Reflected	in	what	direction?	In	front	of	the	surface	it's	striking.
And	these	rays	of	light	emanating	from	the	sun,	very,	very,	very	far	away,	coming,	are
traveling	and	distances	keep	crossing	from	the	place.	They	are	reflected.	How	is	that?
Yes.
When	I	am	under	a	tree,	I	see	everything,	branches,	fruit	and	everything,	birds	flying	in
the	branches	of	the	trees.	I	can	see	them.	I	go	far	away	and	going	away,	I	see	that	thing
smaller.
Why?	Till	I	go	to	such	a	certain	distance	that	I	see	just	only	a	form,	greenish,	cannot
distinguish	anything.	Of	that	tree,	I	saw	so	beautiful	with	fruit,	with	flowers,	maybe	with
branches	 and	 everything	 and	 birds	 flying	 in	 that	 tree.	 Yet,	 I	 am	 provided	 with	 a
telescope,	strong	telescope.
Seeing	 through	 it,	 I	 see	 the	 tree	 as	 if	 I	 am	 just	 very	 near	 that	 tree.	 I	 can	 see	 the
branches,	the	leaves,	if	there	is	fruit,	fruit	in	it,	and	even	I	can	see	birds	flying	in	it.	Only	I

cannot	hear	anything.
Now	we	have	seeing	and	hearing,	another	self.	Oh,	I	cannot	hear	anything,	yet	I	can	see
it.	Now,	it	means	that	there	are	certain	means	which	can	detach	these	rays	coming	from
there	in	such	a	distance,	now	again,	as	they	were	when	I	was	near	the	tree,	and	I	can
see	it	with	a	magnifying	glass	as	if	being	there.
Now,	what's	distance	there?	Is	distance	real?	You	have	to	study	all	that.	And	this	is	what
happens	 outside.	 The	 behavior	 of	 what	 we	 call	 the	 ethereal	 light	 in	 carrying	 forms,
images,	characteristics,	and	colors.
Even	the	colors.	Now,	who	cares	what	are	the	colors	in	study?	What	are	colors?	Yet,	it's
our	whole	life,	living	in	a	world	giving	us	colors,	the	light,	and	impressions.	Now,	it's	what
happens	outside	of	our	material	body.
Now,	let	us	study	seeing.	What	does	it	mean,	seeing?	What	do	we	see?	Do	we	see	the
real	things	outside,	since	distance	is	changing	our	impressions?	What	do	we	see?	Now,
we	see	that	when	the	light	is	striking	on	a	surface,	it's	reflected	carrying	with	it	the	form
and	the	color,	the	shape,	and	everything	of	it.	It's	carrying	it.
How?	Why?	There	are	characteristics	of	light	which	should	be	studied.	What	do	they	do,
these	rays	of	light?	They	leave	just	a	very,	very	small	just	like	the	head	of	a	pin,	the	form
and	the	colors	and	everything	of	the	seeing.	The	light	was	reflected	upon,	coming	to	us
just	in	front	of	our	eyes,	in	our	eyes,	the	back	of	the	eye,	as	simple	as	that,	on	both	the
eyes.
Then	that	light	gives	an	irritation	inside	the	eye.	It	irritates	what	you	call	the	optic	nerve.
Now,	until	that	point,	we	have	the	light,	the	external	light.
That	irritation	is	passed	to	certain	centers	in	the	brain,	but	the	brain	is	enclosed	in	the
skull.	 It's	 a	 kind	 of	 matter,	 substance,	 matter.	 And	 that	 irritation	 caused	 by	 the	 optic
nerve	in	certain	centers	in	the	brain	is	giving	us	a	sense	of	seeing	and	feeling	that	we
are	just	in	the	space	around	us.
Are	 we	 there?	 That's	 how	 we	 interpret	 seeing.	 Who	 really	 did	 analyze	 that?	 So	 what
happens	is	just	interpret	this	irritation,	ethereal	vibrations,	in	which	light	now?	Yes,	the
image	is	according	to	the	light.	Just	having	an	image	in	our	eyes,	but	from	the	optic
nerve	inwards	to	the	brain,	there	is	no	light.
Yet,	by	what	kind	of	light	now	I	see?	They	say,	I	see.	And	again,	who	sees?	So	me,	who
you?	You	show	me	your	material	body.	Who	are	you?	Just	interpreting.
Is	 that	 the	 word?	 This	 phenomenon	 of	 seeing.	 So	 the	 only	 thing	 you	 do	 is	 just
interpreting	those	ethereal	vibrations	in	a	certain	center	of	your	material	brain.	Suppose
you	can	repeat	it,	you	can	see	things.

Why	not	be	able	to	repeat	those	vibrations	and	see	things?	But	the	things	I	will	see	are
real.	Are	the	other	things	real?	It's	not	only	vibrations	you	are	interpreting.	And	can	you
just	 create	 certain	 things	 which	 do	 not	 exist	 and	 you	 don't	 know,	 at	 least
subconsciously?	What's	the	dream?	You	find	yourself	lying	on	your	bed	with	closed	eyes.
The	medical	doctor	there	will	see	that	the	pulse	is	lower.	This	person	is	sleeping.	Yet	you
are	not	sleeping.
Where	are	you?	We	said	seeing	is	just	interpreting	certain	ethereal	vibrations	in	a	certain
center	 of	 your	 material	 brain.	 Now	 you're	 interpreting	 also	 vibrations,	 again	 ethereal
vibrations,	in	which	center?	In	the	material	brain?	No.	From	where	you	get	them?	You
may	 sleep	 in	 a	 very	 beautiful	 garden,	 observing,	 seeing	 nice	 flowers,	 smelling	 them
even.
Because	these	senses	are	not	only	in	the	material	plane.	They	are	not	of	the	material
plane.	It's	an	extension	to	the	material	plane	of	the	senses.
You	move	about	in	a	nice	garden,	nice	landscape	near	the	sea,	everywhere,	and	wake	up
in	the	morning.	You	remember	just,	oh,	that	was	a	dream.	So	it	was	not	real.
I'm	telling	you	that's	more	real	because	that's	more	you	than	what	you	are	interpreting
by	what	we	call	sight	through	the	material	eyes.	Why?	Because	through	the	material
eyes	you	cannot	observe	so	many	things	coming	from	outside,	inside	you.	But	now	you
can	use	your	powers	of	observation,	thinking,	feeling	in	a	much	better	way.
You'll	find	out	when	you	see,	when	you	develop	your	self-consciousness	in	the	psychical
body,	living	in	what	you	call	the	psychical	world,	that	the	afterworld	is	more	real	than
this	material	world.	Because	there	you	can	use	what	I	call	concentration,	observation,	in
a	much	better	way	that	you	do	through	the	material	brains.	And	we	reach	now	to	which
conclusion?	Who	is	doing	that?	Who	am	I?	What	I	was	knowing	until	this	present	moment
that	I	am	a	material	body,	moving	it	about,	two	hands,	working	with	them,	do	this	or
that.
I'm	 telling	 you,	 human	 beings	 living	 today	 on	 the	 planet	 are	 living	 eighty	 percent
subconsciously.	 Very	 few	 are	 living	 consciously.	 They	 are	 living	 subconsciously	 and
putting	all	the	impressions,	again,	subconsciously	in	that	part	of	the	personality,	again,
the	psychical	body,	which	you	call	subconsciousness.
And	this	we	call	life.	But	is	that	really	life?	So	human	beings,	instead	of	living	a	whole
period	of	life	in	a	material	body,	growing	and	growing	and	growing	from	childhood	to
adolescence	and	then	to	advanced	stage,	eating,	sleeping,	making	love,	doing	things,
getting	 certain	 skills,	 all	 subconsciously,	 believe	 me,	 they	 don't,	 they're	 not	 different
from	all	the	other	human	life	around	them.	And	that's	not	the	purpose	of	life	in	a	human
body.

It	is	in	developing	the	sense	of	selfhood.	So	I	say	that	eighty	percent	of	the	people	living
around	them,	they	express	a	self	without	knowing	what	is	that	self	they	are	expressing.
You	say,	how	is	that?	Because	they	are	living	instinctively	and	subconsciously.
They	are	not	self-conscious.	They	express	a	self.	Yes,	definitely.
The	shadow	of	their	real	self,	as	we	call	it,	the	present-day	personality.	But	who	knows
what	is	this	present-day	personality?	I'll	make	it	more	plain.	If	I	ask	somebody,	what's
your	body?	You	know	your	body.
You	are	possessing.	You	have	a	body.	You	call	it	yours.
You	are	living	in	a	body.	You	are	moving	it	about,	going,	walking.	And	with	your	hands,
you	have	the	hands,	you	get	the	skill	of	using	the	hands,	doing	this	or	that	or	that	work.
What	are	you	doing?	How	you	do	it?	What's	movement?	What's	motion?	What's	energy?
Where	from	do	you	find	energy	in	that	material	body?	Do	you	know?	So	you	are	living
subconsciously.	And	then	again,	you	see	certain	things	around	you.	It	depends	upon	the
person,	the	personality.
They	 may	 influence	 you,	 these	 things.	 You	 may	 desire	 to	 approach,	 touch	 them,	 and
know	them.	What	are	these	things?	Why?	What's	that	feeling	that	is	drawing	you	to	the
other	things,	to	go	near	them,	and	know	what	they	are?	Knowing	what	they	are.
Another	thing	happens	inside	you.	I	want	it.	What	does	it	mean,	I	want	it?	Who	are	you?
What's	you?	What's	that?	What	is	that	thing?	I	want	it.
I	want	it.	What	for?	To	see	it,	to	have	it,	to	possess	it,	to	call	it	mine.	Why?	Whoever
made	an	analysis	of	what	happens,	to	know	what	his	desire.
A	human	being	is	all	day	long	under	the	burden	of	so	many	so-called	desires,	which	are
the	operations	of	his	so-called	psychical	body,	without	knowing	that	he	has	a	psychical
body.	Now,	using	his	psychical	body,	through	the	material	body,	again	subconsciously,
then	a	step	forward.	Subconsciously,	a	fellow,	being	under	the	influence	of	things	around
him,	 which	 have	 created	 those	 feelings,	 I	 call	 it	 devilish,	 and	 I'll	 explain	 why,	 of
possessing	and	having.
Definitely	devilish,	because	he	or	she	tried	to	deprive	them	from	the	others.	Why?	He
should	study	all	these	reactions	in	the	personality.	Then,	subconsciously,	one	is	using	the
mind.
Subconsciously,	how	can	I	accomplish	this	desire?	Enslaving	the	mind,	as	thought,	to	the
desires.	 First	 of	 all,	 weakening	 the	 mind,	 strengthening	 through	 the	 mind	 the	 desire,
becoming	the	slave	of	that	desire.	Now,	studying	things	to	know	what	are	elementals,
and	 how	 he	 enslaves	 himself	 or	 herself	 in	 certain	 elementals,	 we	 call	 them	 emotion-

thought	elementals.
Who	studies	all	these	things?	Just	to	free	himself	or	herself	from	illusions,	pain,	and	what
follows	even	after	all	those	impressions	and	vibrations.	What	follows?	When	a	desire	is
fulfilled,	when	you	get	that	thing,	you	want	that	you	are	something,	a	car,	a	house,	or
something	like	that,	calling	it	yours.	When	a	desire	is	fulfilled,	it	makes	you	feel	tired	of
it.
The	new	desire	arises,	not	one,	maybe	two	or	three	or	more	at	a	time,	torturing	us.	If
they	are	fulfilled,	they	make	us	tired.	When	they	are	fulfilled,	they	lose	their	value	for	us,
which	you	have	given	them,	have	overvalued	them,	the	time	we	didn't	have	them	and
we	wanted	them.
Something	else	comes.	Who	studies	all	these	things	happening	in	the	personality?	We
have	to,	because	all	these	things	are	giving	a	human	being	pain,	agony,	anxiety,	despair
many	times.	And	then	we	said,	when	these	are	fulfilled,	you	undervalue	them	now	and
you	have	other	desires	in	front	of	you.
If	they	are	fulfilled,	if	they	are	not	fulfilled,	then	it	is	the	worst	reaction.	You	see	other
people	around	you,	why	these	desires	were	fulfilled	for	them	and	not	for	me?	And	then,
who	 was	 the	 cause	 that	 this	 desire	 of	 mine	 had	 not	 been	 fulfilled?	 Another	 reaction,
hating,	enmity,	jealousy.	The	others	have	it,	why	I	don't	have	it?	Who	really	has	started
studying	all	these	reactions	in	the	personality?	Pain,	agony,	making	life	miserable.
Why?	Who	tries	to	find	the	reason	why	life	is	miserable	now?	If	you	put	the	question,	two
hundred	persons,	from	a	millionaire	to	the	poorest,	are	you	happy?	How	many	do	you
think	will	say	they	are?	Maybe	none.	Why?	Because	in	reality,	nothing	can	make	you
happy	except	knowing	who	you	are.	The	treasure	is	in	knowing	who	we	are,	the	self-
realization.
And	then,	everything	outside	is	rubbish.	We	will	not	have	it.	The	material	plane.
Of	course,	we	can	have	everything,	but	the	few	have	them	who	are	called	lucky.	Most	of
the	people	do	not	have	them.	Why?	Not	all	people	should	have	this	called	satisfaction,	at
least,	not	happiness.
Why?	 Those	 who	 have	 everything	 are	 not	 happy,	 because	 as	 they	 are,	 they	 cannot
estimate	what	they	have.	It's	good	having.	Nature	is	good.
Everything	is	good,	all	around	us.	Unless	everything	was	good,	the	total	wisdom	of	the
Almighty	would	not	create	it.	Everything	created	is	good.
Having	it?	Yes,	why	not?	Christ	Joshua	the	Christ	said,	Ask	and	it	will	be	given	to	you.
Look	and	it	will	open	to	you.	They	are	not	prohibitions.

But	he	said	something	else.	Search	for	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens,	which	is	in	you,	and
everything	will	be	added	to	you.	And	then	you	are	sure	that	what	you	have	is	yours.
Otherwise,	 you	 have	 the	 fear	 of	 losing	 everything.	 Now	 you	 are	 sure	 you	 have
everything.	Not	granted	to	you	by	right	of	having	it.
You	are	a	god.	You	find	yourself	as	god.	You	know	who	you	are	now.
Now	you	can	enjoy	everything	and	value	everything.	So,	what	is	wrong	in	undervaluing
things	because	they	make	you	tired?	Because	they	created	in	you	so	much	effort	while
they	 have	 been	 accomplished,	 you	 felt	 you	 are	 tired	 of	 them.	 Now	 this	 is	 something
wrong.
Because	in	having	this	attitude	towards	things	given	to	you,	granted	to	you,	because
nothing	happens	unless	it	is	the	will	of	God.	When	Pontius	Pilate	told	Christ,	Don't	you
know	that	I	have	the	authority	of	releasing	you	or	crucifying	you?	He	said,	you	have	no
authority	on	me	unless	it	is	given	to	you	from	above.	And	he	said,	that	not	even	a	leaf
can	drop	from	a	tree	unless	it	is	the	will	of	God.
So,	with	what	one	has	it	is	the	will	of	God.	They	are	granted	to	him.