

Daskalos-Jun-15-1992-B-Breath-of-Life
You	  are	  studying	  the	  elementals,	  studying	  your	  subconsciousness,	  searching	  and
analyzing	 your	 desires,	 your	 emotions,	 and	 the	 reactions	 which	 are	 in	 your	 present-day
personality.	Now	you	can	get	out	of	this	confusion,	but	you	must	do	it	sincerely.	You	will
find	out,	in	most	cases,	leading	to	divorce,	between	human	people,	a	man	and	a	woman,
is	love.
Rather,	 attraction,	 which	 will	 lead	 to	 love,	 but	 it	 may	 lead	 to	 love,	 if	 there	 is	 between
these	two	people	understanding.	So,	never	mind.	But	they	live	together,	doesn't	matter.
They	start	well.	You	may	bring	children.	Duties	now	and	responsibilities,	which	I	have	to
treat	them	seriously.
Now,	these	good	people,	80%	of	the	people,	just	fighting,	quarreling,	they	continue	doing
so,	without	seeking	betterment.	In	fact,	who	will	do	that?	Let	them	learn.	It's	simple.
Now	going	on	with	us.	What	do	you	think?	90%	of	the	cases,	they	will	find	that,	decide	or
not,	 it's	 not	 their	 personal	 egos	 presenting	 itself.	 You	 are	 mine,	 you	 are	 my	 one,	 you
have	to	obey	me.
You	 have	 to	 do	 whatever	 I	 say,	 and	 whatever	 I	 want.	 What?	 You	 are	 my	 husband?	 No.
This	is	elementals.
Now	 it's	 the	 same	 for	 the	 living	 elementals.	 Coming	 forward.	 But	 instead	 of	 this,	 who
could,	instead	of	it,	they	create	new	elementals	at	the	same	time.
The	devil	of	dominating	is	making,	not	only	in	the	family,	in	business,	in	the	community,
in	 nations.	 The	 children	 of	 God's	 dominion,	 they	 translate	 themselves	 in	 its	 favor.	 The
devil	has	to	be	aware	of	that.
The	 devil	 is	 appearing	 as	 an	 angel	 of	 light.	 80%.	 The	 marriages	 are	 ending	 with	 a
divorce.
In	fact,	everything,	everywhere	in	the	world,	in	the	so-called	civilized	countries,	we	have
developed,	we	cannot	just	tell	you	good.	Tell	you	to	tell	her,	yes,	she's	not	the	man.	She
has	trouble	with	another.
There	are	no	women	who	have	money	for	cancer	treatment.	I'm	very	unlucky	person.	In
my	world,	they	are	always	just	giving	very	bad	names.
Who	 keeps	 you	 so	 understanding?	 I	 don't	 care	 about	 the	 good	 people.	 Keep	 it	 to
yourself.	There's	no	such	thing.
Men.	They	become	the	ones	who	want	to	test	him,	or	teach	him,	or	teach	him,	then	they
start	quarreling.	No,	we	are	in	a	company.

What	 do	 you	 see	 in	 that	 company?	 They	 start,	 and	 everybody	 will	 just	 decide.	 Try	 to
impress	the	others,	which	is	weird.	Sometimes	failing	nonsense.
What	about	you?	If	you	know	the	problem	we	are	talking	about,	we	are	not	telling	you	to
tell	her	that.	To	say	something	that,	to	show	them	that	you	know	everything.	So	the	devil
says	nothing	also.
Try	to	keep	silent.	Listen.	And	study	the	things.
And	 if	 you	 are	 asked,	 to	 give	 your	 opinion.	 Not	 to	 be	 gossipy.	 In	 every	 place	 there	 are
going	to	see	just	the	same.
People	talking	too	much.	And	most	of	the	time,	talking	nonsense.	Because	they	are	not
using	their	mind.
They	 just	 stop	 and	 talk,	 and	 talk,	 and	 talk,	 and	 feel	 influenced	 by	 others,	 and	 try	 to
influence	 the	 others.	 Then	 they	 go	 home,	 feeling	 very	 tired.	 Why?	 Because	 they	 are
exhausted	with	their	vitality.
Anything	 we	 do,	 except	 talking,	 just	 feeling	 desires	 and	 emotions,	 apart	 from	 the
elementals,	 good	 or	 bad,	 they	 are	 burning	 what	 we	 call	 our	 etheric	 vitality,	 our	 energy.
And	when	this	etheric	vitality,	our	energy,	is	exhausted,	then	many	illnesses	will	appear
on	 the	 material	 body.	 Because	 we	 are	 deprived,	 we	 call	 it	 illness,	 the	 material	 just
repeats	and	creates,	and	makes	corrections	in	our	bodies.
Who	is	responsible	then	for	the	illnesses	of	the	bodies?	Not	we.	Not	everybody.	They	are
always	under	this	wrong	impression.
You	must	study	what	is	etheric	vitality,	what	is	energy,	what	it	has	given	us,	how	much
we	are	allowed	to	use	it.	You	must	study	the	way	you	are	using,	exhausting	this	so-called
etheric	vitality.	We	call	it	energy,	it's	energy	that's	there.
So,	 let	 me	 discuss.	 Say,	 we	 are	 given	 100	 units	 every	 day.	 40	 units	 are	 enough	 for	 the
whole	life,	100	to	make	repairs	in	our	life.
40	units	are	required	by	us	for	all	our	thinking	and	activity,	and	20%	remain	surplus.	We
are	 given	 much	 more	 than	 what	 we	 need.	 What	 are	 we	 doing?	 We	 live	 the	 way	 we	 are
living.
And	we	are	ending	up	in	the	100	units,	depriving	the	etheric	vitality	from	their	country,
to	 repair	 injuries	 in	 our	 bodies.	 A	 strong	 sea	 of	 anger,	 shouting,	 quarrelling,	 is	 able	 to
destroy	the	whole	100	units	we	get	every	day,	feeling	us	completely	exhausted,	because
we	 are	 living	 in	 the	 wrong	 way,	 what	 we	 call	 the	 mind	 fire,	 because	 this	 is	 for	 you	 to
understand,	 that	 we	 are	 losing	 the	 subconsciousness.	 In	 the	 beginning,	 when	 you	 are
angry,	very	angry,	shouting,	like	rats,	you	become	red,	most	of	the	time	you	are	feeling

hot,	then	you	are	feeling	exhausted,	you	become	pale,	and	tired.
Why?	Why	waste	your	vital	energy,	so	precious,	in	such	a	stupid	way,	hatred,	but	angry,
everybody	 may	 be	 angry	 for	 some	 minutes,	 some	 hours,	 and	 then,	 oh,	 he	 will	 calm
down,	with	shaking,	like	a	cigarette,	in	him	or	in	her,	always,	always	burning	the	etheric
vitality.	What	will	happen	to	that	person?	All	kinds	of	illnesses	will	appear.	Cancer,	heart
disease,	many,	many	illnesses	will	appear.
Who	is	wrong	now?	Are	now	people	willing	just	to	change?	Some	of	them,	yes.	Some,	no.
They	know	the	truth	about	the	present	condition	they	are	in.
They	 don't	 want.	 They	 don't	 want	 to	 change.	 They	 have	 enmity,	 jealousy,	 and	 all	 these
negative	feelings,	are	very,	very	bad	poisons	in	your	body.
So,	it's	the	best	thing	to	get	rid	of	them.	At	least	for	your	own	sake,	for	your	health	sake.
And,	 how	 should	 we	 not	 find	 our	 real	 self,	 set	 ourselves	 free,	 from	 the	 10th	 place,
circumstances,	  become	  masters	  of	  these	  circumstances,	  and	  not	  slaves	  of	  these
circumstances.
They	are	masters	of	the	circumstances	they	are	living	in.	And	how	many	are	the	slaves
of	 these	 circumstances?	 We	 can	 be	 masters	 of	 the	 circumstances	 by	 using	 the	 mind,
thinking,	 right	 thinking,	 being	 calm,	 serene.	 I've	 had	 many	 people	 come	 to	 me	 in	 the
past,	 oh,	 okay,	 my	 God,	 because	 he's	 meeting	 people	 who	 are	 just	 torturing	 him,	 this
and	that,	but	do	not	understand	him	at	all	in	that.
All	 the	 time	 being	 out	 on	 his	 job,	 getting	 tired,	 quarreling,	 they	 don't	 understand	 him,
they	want	to	treat	him,	and	then	leave	him.	And	that's	not	only	the	case.	Coming	home,
he	 finds	 a	 reason	 to	 keep	 his	 wife	 and	 children,	 shouting,	 doing	 things,	 becoming
obsessed	and	ill.
I've	 seen	 many,	 many	 people,	 some	 of	 them	 happily	 become	 reasonable.	 No,	 you	 don't
need	to	change	much.	Try	to	be	more	tolerant	and	patient.
Try	 to	 understand	 people,	 instead	 of	 trying	 to	 force	 your	 will	 on	 them,	 and	 on	 that.	 So,
who	teaches	us	all	that?	People	around	us.	But	do	they	know	these	lessons?	Try	to	teach
them	to	others.
Who	 will	 teach	 us	 all	 that?	 The	 use	 of	 the	 mind	 in	 the	 proper	 way.	 We	 have	 no	 excuse.
We	are	given	the	mind,	that's	why	we	are	given	the	air,	and	we	breathe.
We	have	to	use	it,	to	start	thinking.	Or,	we	get	our	lessons	in	a	different	way,	by	the	whip
of	destiny.	Everything	has	an	effect.
Not	 as	 a	 punishment,	 but	 as	 a	 lesson	 given	 by	 the	 law.	 So,	 are	 we	 getting	 our	 lessons,
even	in	this	bitter	and	undesirable	way?	Sooner	or	later,	we	will.	But	how	long	should	we

suffer	until	we	get	our	lessons?	And	why	not	just	use	the	mind	in	the	right	way,	to	study
things,	study	circumstances,	and	study	ways	how	we	will	live	a	better	life.
How	 to	 develop,	 in	 ourselves,	 what	 I	 call	 patience	 and	 tolerance.	 And	 how	 to	 annihilate
completely	and	exterminate	this	devil	in	our	personality,	we	call	our	personalities,	egos.
So,	we	have	just	to	study	our	subconsciousness,	find	out	this	devil,	which	is	making	itself
unhappy,	and	us	also.
So,	I	think	the	future	of	everyone,	not	only	of	me,	is	such	a	solution,	is	to	get	out	of	this
muddy	condition	of	all	those	egoistic	elementals	composing	this	or	that	personality.	And
by	so	doing,	one	comes	to	the	point	of	studying	this	present	day	self.	You	say,	yeah,	but
you	 said	 that	 this	 present	 day	 self	 is	 the	 egoist,	 which	 you	 suggest	 that	 we	 should
exterminate	or	annihilate.
No.	Not	of	that.	The	expression	is	the	egoist.
The	perceiver	of	the	personality	is	you,	is	God.	You	have	just	to	free	that	from	the	egoist.
So,	 by	 annihilating,	 exterminating	 this	 energy	 element,	 we	 are	 not	 losing	 anything,
because	even	your	personality,	free	from	its	egoist,	is	holy.
Even	 that	 self	 of	 yours,	 we	 will	 find	 out	 by	 cleaning	 it,	 is	 you.	 So,	 not	 to	 separate	 the
perceiver,	 we	 will	 call,	 egoist,	 from	 the	 nature,	 even	 of	 that	 present	 day	 personality,
which	is	you	again.	That	was	the	reason	you	were	making	the	mistake	that	you	were	the
egoist.
But	that	part	has	to	be	cleaned	and	transmitted	into	your	inner	self,	to	the	soul	self.	And
try	to	think	about	it.	The	perishable	will	become	imperishable	and	the	mortal	will	become
immortal,	because	it	is	immortal.
So,	 even	 the	 parts	 of	 life,	 your	 own	 personality,	 is	 God.	 But	 you	 have	 to	 clean	 that
personality,	 take	 away	 from	 that	 personality	 the	 rags	 of	 egoism.	 You	 have	 nothing	 to
lose.
By	so	doing,	you	have	to	gain	much.	You	have	to	gain	your	self.	And	it's	what	I	say,	self-
realization	as	an	ego	soul,	the	self-realization	as	a	spirit,	divine	selfhood.
Because	 it's	 rather	 difficult	 now	 to	 enter	 in	 these	 great	 truths	 in	 very	 high	 meanings.
Now,	we'll	make	some	exercises.	Now,	relax	completely.
Every	muscle	should	be	relaxed.	Start	from	the	feet,	the	thighs,	the	belly,	the	chest,	the
hip.	Relax	completely.
Yet,	feel	that	you	are	in	this	material	body.	You	are	in	the	material	body.	You	are	in	the
material	body.
No	 matter	 how	 perfect	 this	 material	 body	 is,	 the	 work	 of	 the	 Holy	 Archangel	 is	 not

yourself.	It's	given	you	to	live	in	it.	A	great	honor	indeed.
They	are	looking	after	it.	It's	not	you.	And	you	live	in	it.
You.	Who?	You.	Don't	bring	before	your	mind	now	your	name,	your	personality.
You	are	not	all	that.	That's	the	shadow	on	the	cross	matter	of	yourself.	You	are	not	that.
Forget	 your	 name.	 But	 don't	 forget	 your	 human	 form	 in	 your	 cross	 material	 body	 now.
You	are	in	it.
You	are	that	human	material	form.	Calm	down	completely	all	desires	and	emotions.	Free
your	human	form	even	from	the	psychical	influences.
Keep	a	luminous	human	form	even	free	of	thoughts.	You	are	feeling	only.	You	are	you	in
your	bodies.
Breathe	deeply	and	comfortably.	The	breath	of	life.	The	etheric	vitality.
Breathe	deeply	and	feel	the	whole	material	body	of	yours.	You	are	in	it.	See	it	luminous
in	a	white	light.
See	a	white	light	inside	your	cross	material	body.	The	whole	earth	conscious	working	in
your	material	body	are	aware	of	what	you	are	doing	now	and	they	are	rejoicing.	See	this
material	body	of	yours	radiating	white	light.
And	 say	 to	 your	 subconsciousness	 I	 want	 perfect	 self	 to	 be	 in	 this	 material	 body	 I	 call
mind.	Your	subconscious	mind	will	do	it.	Starting	the	subconscious	mind	you	will	find	out
that	the	subconscious	mind	gets	and	executes	orders	without	using	reason	or	thinking.
See	 in	 your	 body	 and	 around	 your	 body	 a	 luminous	 white	 light.	 Breathe	 it.	 Breathe
deeply	seeing	that	this	light	is	increasing	and	say	with	your	mind	I	want	perfect	self	to	be
in	this	material	body	of	mine.
Call	it	yours.	Put	this	question	to	yourself	Who	am	I?	Who	is	that	self	of	mine	creating	a
personality	of	a	man	or	a	woman	within	that	group	of	elementals	good	or	bad	which	I	call
my	 personality.	 What	 is	 that	 self	 who	 can	 recompose	 this	 personality	 who	 can	 change
this	 personality	 who	 can	 clean	 this	 personality	 in	 every	 24	 hours	 you	 as	 a	 present	 day
personality	 are	 entering	 in	 a	 world	 of	 nonexistence	 as	 if	 you	 are	 not	 existing	 in	 deep
dreamless	sleep.
Yet	 you	 wake	 up	 in	 the	 morning	 and	 that	 mysterious	 selfhood	 of	 yours	 is	 recomposing
your	 personality	 and	 you	 are	 not	 less	 to	 what	 you	 were	 before	 going	 to	 sleep.	 Mary	 is
Mary	 and	 George	 is	 George.	 Who	 is	 that	 self	 which	 recomposes	 the	 time	 and	 place
shadow	 of	 himself	 this	 happens	 every	 24	 hours	 sometimes	 more	 times	 you	 get	 some
sleep	at	noon	say	who	am	I	that	mysterious	I-ness	who	is	never	lost	and	who	is	able	to

recompose	my	personality	as	it	is.
I	want	to	know	what	I	am	as	a	soul	ego	as	that	divine	selfhood	my	self	is	not	the	shadow
it's	 casting	 on	 the	 cross	 matter.	 What	 am	 I?	 Don't	 expect	 to	 have	 the	 answer	 now.	 You
will	 get	 it	 sometime	 by	 your	 guardian	 archangel	 the	 time	 he	 will	 find	 that	 he	 will
understand	what	he	will	say	to	you.
What	am	I	now	as	a	present	day	personality	having	a	name	emotions	liking	and	disliking
things	a	self	which	is	everyday	changing	what	am	I	as	that	personality	how	to	study	even
that	 living	 in	 this	 life	 destiny	 or	 holy	 providence	 placed	 you	 amongst	 other	 people
nothing	 is	 by	 chance	 what	 were	 your	 relations	 with	 all	 those	 people	 around	 you	 your
connections	 you	 should	 love	 them	 all	 the	 gods	 are	 loving	 if	 you	 had	 some	 difficult
moments	with	certain	people,	male	or	female	around	you	in	your	business,	in	your	family
in	 your	 home	 maybe	 you	 are	 separated	 from	 those	 people	 see	 that	 you	 don't	 have	 any
bitterness	 in	 your	 heart	 if	 they	 are	 wrong	 you	 are	 doing	 the	 same	 wrong	 because	 all	 of
you	 are	 human	 beings	 doing	 mistakes	 you	 are	 human	 beings	 as	 you	 are	 making
mistakes	yet	they	are	gods	like	yourself	as	soul	egos	bring	these	people	in	your	mind	by
visualization	see	them	in	front	of	you	now	don't	see	them	angry	or	complaining	see	them
smiling	 and	 see	 from	 your	 heart	 a	 light	 coming	 out	 as	 a	 sun	 lighting	 all	 the	 place	 there
see	 that	 light	 on	 their	 face	 and	 tell	 them	 that	 you	 love	 them	 and	 mean	 it	 you	 are
applying	 to	 their	 soul	 now	 not	 to	 their	 personality	 you	 don't	 need	 meet	 them	 again	 or
live	 with	 them	 again	 no	 need	 but	 you	 bring	 their	 soul	 in	 front	 of	 you	 attached	 to	 their
soul	 ego	 give	 them	 love	 and	 forgive	 us	 our	 transgressions	 as	 we	 forgive	 those	 who	 are
transgressing	 against	 us	 of	 course	 this	 was	 said	 by	 to	 reduce	 as	 we	 forgive	 those	 who
are	transgressing	against	us	we	are	Christians	are	not	to	forgive	but	to	love	forgiving	is
an	 expression	 of	 the	 personal	 egoism	 but	 love	 is	 an	 expression	 of	 the	 soul	 ego	 never
mind	 we	 repeat	 this	 prayer	 but	 we	 Christians	 will	 give	 it	 another	 meaning	 there	 is	 no
need	 to	 forgive	 anybody	 we	 will	 love	 all	 in	 this	 way	 we	 are	 sending	 elementals	 of	 love
which	will	work	to	our	brothers	or	sisters	to	build	the	world	and	you	we	should	start	from
ourselves	not	from	others	and	the	others	seeing	us	will	follow	it	is	wrong	to	try	to	correct
the	others	one	should	correct	himself	or	herself	tomorrow	we	will	continue	the	lesson	on
the	 elementals	 because	 this	 subject	 is	 so	 big	 that	 volumes	 and	 volumes	 can	 be	 written
without	exhausting	it	and	each	one	has	by	himself	observation	and	meditation	study	this
nature	of	the	elementals	start	working	in	subconsciousness