

Daskalos	-	A	Knock	and	it	shall	be	Opened	2
What	a	fellow,	man	or	woman,	has	he	or	she	have	it	because	that's	the	will	of	God?
Otherwise	they	wouldn't	have	it.	But	then	again	you	say,	why?	I	don't	have	so	much	as	I
want	to	have.	The	other	has	much	more	than	I	have.
Who	taught	you	that	you	cannot	have	more	if	you	want?	And	you	know	the	way	to	ask
for	it.	There	are	no	limitations	now.	You	say	now,	how?	How?	By	using	the	mind	properly.
How,	I	say.	The	other	fellow	is	very,	very	lucky.	They	are	not	suggesting	us	luck.
Before	God,	all	human	beings	are	equal.	And	all	human	beings	are	granted	equally	the
gifts	of	God,	which	is	breathing,	being	able	to	sing.	Everybody	can	do	that.
But	how	do	we	use	these	divine	gifts?	Do	we	use	them	properly?	Giving	material	things
now.	Getting	the	material	things.	Do	we	value	them	according	to	their	real	value?	Or	we
get	them	enslaving	ourselves	only	in	these	things	without	caring	more	about	what	are
we?	 Who	 are	 we?	 Where	 these	 things	 have	 been	 granted	 to	 us?	 So,	 I	 tell	 you,	 this
material	world	is	very,	very	beautiful.
All	material	things	are	very,	very	nice	and	beautiful.	We	are	here	living	and	we	have	the
right	of	enjoying	everything.	We	have	that	right.
And	you	have	given	the	right	to	ask.	Now,	starting	the	elementals,	I'm	telling	you	that
whatever	a	man	had	ever	desired	having,	he	or	she	will	have	it.	Sooner	or	later.
Depends	upon	the	strength	of	that	desire.	But	it's	when.	We	must	give	it	time	to	work.
One	fellow	is	born	rich	in	a	rich	family.	The	other	was	born	very,	very	poor	somewhere.	I
had	these	questions.
How	do	you	say,	sir,	they	are	not	lucky	persons?	I	insist,	they	are	not	lucky	persons.	It	is
how	they	make	use	of	the	mind	as	desire.	When	someone	has	a	desire,	and	there	are
laws	and	causes	that	this	desire	will	not	be	fulfilled	now,	that	elemental	will	never	be
disenergized	before	that	desire	is	fulfilled.
So	an	elemental	is	living	a	much,	much	longer	period	of	life	than	the	human	being	is
living	in	his	material	body.	And	all	those	desires,	those	elementals,	composing	his	or	her
personality,	 accompany	 the	 psychical	 body,	 because	 mainly	 it	 is	 from	 the	 psychical
body,	these	elementals	are	coming	out,	will	be	there	working,	even	if	the	man	left	his
material	body,	living	in	the	psychical	world,	and	then	for	some	time	in	the	neurotic	world,
and	 coming	 back,	 they	 are	 working	 to	 create	 these	 circumstances	 for	 the
accomplishment	of	that	desire.	So	those	who	are	rich	and	born	rich	and	have	everything,
it	is	because	they	have	worked	on	these	things	in	previous	incarnations.

They	have	the	right	having	it,	because	God	is	granting	plentifully	to	all.	And	the	others,
who	 do	 not	 have	 them,	 they	 have	 to	 work	 now,	 having	 them,	 seeing	 them,	 desiring
them,	but	they	have	the	right	of	using	the	most	precious	gift,	which	is	the	mind,	a	sober
thought	and	good	thinking.	If	they	start	the	wrong	way,	Father	will	not	give	them	until
they	come	to	their	senses.
Sometimes	very	rich	people	are	losing	that	property.	Why?	To	get	the	next	lesson.	You
have	it.
You	don't	make	good	use	of	it.	For	the	other	sense,	you	are	yourself.	You	are	a	slave	of
it.
So,	God	is	withdrawing,	depriving	you	to	wake	us	up,	and	when	one	is	up,	not	giving
back,	 but	 giving	 much,	 much	 more.	 It	 is	 the	 circumstances.	 The	 circumstances	 are
created,	and	the	law	of	karma,	or	cause	and	effect,	works	accordingly	to	the	elementals
we	have	built	up,	even	in	the	past.
And	 they	 work.	 Somebody	 will	 say,	 why	 our	 desires	 are	 not	 fulfilled	 immediately?
Because	we	don't	give	them	time	to	work.	You	have	a	desire.
You	create	an	elemental.	You	bring	it	back,	thinking	of	it	again.	It	goes	out.
You	bring	it	back.	You	have	the	intense	desire	of	having	these	things.	You	don't	give	it
time	to	work.
When	you	have	another	desire,	and	you	forget	about	it,	then	you	give	it	time	to	work.
Many	people	are	coming	to	me	and	say,	Dastale,	you	know,	I	had	that,	and	that,	and
that,	and	that	desire,	which	had	not	been	fulfilled	the	time	I	wanted	it.	Because	the	time
you	wanted	it	most	intensely,	you	didn't	give	it	time	to	work.
You	have	left	it	free.	It	had	worked.	Ah,	now	that	things	came	and	I	have	them.
Now	what's	wrong	having	it	now?	You	wanted	it	so	strongly.	You	have	it	now.	What	do
you	want	more?	Everybody	will	notice	that	desires	are	fulfilled	when	you	forget	about
them.
Forgetting	about	them,	it	means	giving	them	time	to	work.	Because,	I	am	repeating,	no
elemental	of	any	desire	can	be	dis-energized	before	the	purpose	for	which	it	has	been
created	has	been	fulfilled.	But,	we	must	see	now	that	our	desires	of	today,	we	think	so
important,	may	not	be	stumbling	stones	on	our	way	in	another	incarnation.
So	 we	 have	 to	 use	 reason.	 Now,	 if	 desires	 of	 elementals	 created	 subconsciously	 can
work,	consciously	created	desires	can	work	better,	be	fulfilled	in	a	shorter	period	of	time.
But	you	must	know	how	the	elementals	are	working,	how	to	free	ourselves	from	the
elementals,	give	them	time	to	work,	and	after	all,	know	what	we	are	creating.

When	a	desire	comes	to	us,	do	we	really	want	it	to	be	fulfilled?	Or	is	it	just	that	moment's
feeling?	 And	 if	 it	 is	 fulfilled,	 it	 is	 a	 stepping	 stone	 in	 our	 way.	 So	 we	 have	 to	 think
reasonably.	In	this	way,	we	have	classified	the	elementals	in	two	classes.
The	emotional	thought	elementals,	these	are	too	many,	created	by	everybody,	without
checking	and	without	reasoning.	They	will	be	fulfilled	sooner	or	later.	That's	the	law.
And	 that	 class	 of	 the	 elementals	 we	 call	 the	 thought	 elementals,	 the	 thought-forms
elementals,	having	just	a	wish	in	it,	not	an	ardent	desire,	an	unbridled	desire,	which	are
fulfilled	 sooner.	 And	 this	 is	 the	 elementals	 which	 a	 human	 being	 should	 create
consciously	now,	self-consciously	later.	That's	the	meaning	of	life	and	living.
Life	 and	 living.	 Because	 these	 elementals,	 these	 two	 classes	 of	 elementals,	 are
composing	our	present-day	personality	and	the	purity.	And	the	nature	of	our	present-day
personality	is	the	nature	and	the	purity	of	these	elementals.
And	by	these	elementals,	we	are	creating	every	moment	our	psychical	shell	around	our
psychical	body,	which	is	creating	either	our	shell-hell	or	shell-paradise,	in	which	we	are
now	 and	 we	 will	 find	 ourselves	 after	 passing	 over,	 leaving	 the	 material	 body.	 So	 the
purpose	of	life	is	knowing	the	truth,	which	truth,	according	to	Joshua	the	Christ,	will	set
us	free	from	illusions	and	from	troubles.	So	the	main	thing	one	should	learn	and	know	is
the	nature	of	the	mind	in	all	its	states	of	existence,	supersubstance,	substance,	ethereal,
and	cross-matter.
And	our	life	in	these	worlds,	not	only	the	material	world,	the	other	worlds,	the	psychical
and	the	nautical,	what's	the	aim	behind	it?	Knowing	the	world,	not	suffering	in	the	world.
That's	 a	 blasphemy	 against	 God.	 But	 feeling	 happy,	 satisfied	 in	 these	 worlds,	 the
material,	the	psychical	and	the	nautical,	until	we	find	out	that	we	are	what	we	are,	not
the	shadow	of	ourselves,	which	is	in	time	and	place,	the	personality,	which	is	all	the	time
changing	and	changing	and	changing	and	changing.
To	find	our	real	self	now,	the	self-realization,	I	put	it	in	the	words	of	Christ,	seek	the
kingdom	of	the	heavens	and	everything,	everything,	will	be	added	to	you.	He	didn't	say
certain	things	will	be	added	to	you.	Certain	material	things	only	will	be	added	to	you,	or
psychical,	everything	will	be	added	to	you.
But	 we	 should	 find	 the	 kingdom	 of	 the	 heavens,	 which	 are	 you.	 The	 kingdom	 of	 the
heavens	is	in	you,	not	inside	you,	in	your	nature	as	self-consciousness,	as	God.	Now	you
say,	is	it	wrong	to	wish,	to	desire	having	certain	things?	Of	course,	no.
You	have	eyes	and	you	see,	and	of	course	there	is	no	wrong.	Why?	You	shouldn't	have
what	you	like	having.	God	the	Father	created	everything	around	us,	not	only	for	human
beings,	for	all	phenomena	of	life.
So	denying	yourself	is	not	right.	Having,	and	being	satisfied	of	having,	there	is	nothing

wrong	in	it.	What's	wrong?	Enslaving	this	self,	even	the	petty	time	and	place	self,	your
personality,	in	the	things	which	are	not	permanent.
They	 are	 changing,	 they	 are	 passing.	 So	 there	 is	 nothing	 wrong	 in	 desiring	 and	 the
desires	to	be	under	reason	and	the	mind,	under	your	decision.	God	did	not	create	all
these	things	around	us,	prohibiting	us	having	them,	or	enjoying	them.
He	is	not	just	a	satisfied	Father.	See?	But	you	do	not	have	it.	No!	And	what	the	Heavenly
Father	had	created	in	the	material	world	is	good	and	holy.
And	 we	 are	 allowed	 having	 anything	 we	 like,	 but	 not	 enslave	 ourselves	 under	 those
things.	 Besides,	 enslaving	 yourself	 in	 certain	 things,	 you	 can	 have	 more.	 You	 are
enslaving	yourself	to	certain	things	only.
And	Christ	said,	Seek	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens,	and	everything.	I	have	some	things,
and	not	everything,	in	all	the	world.	Now,	what	are	these	everything,	and	how	one	can
have	 everything,	 I'm	 afraid	 I'm	 not	 allowed	 to	 speak	 more	 on	 it,	 because	 you'll	 not
understand.
We	have	to	develop	in	our	present-day	personality,	self,	those	conditions	of	purifying	it,
casting	away	shadows,	illusions,	desires,	not	cleaning	the	desires.	No	need	to	kill	desires.
Nobody	ever	managed	to	kill	an	elemental,	dis-energizing	it,	yes,	or	re-energizing	it,	yes.
So	we	have	to	study	all	these	things,	concerning	the	mind,	the	using	of	the	mind,	the
elementals,	 control	 them,	 instead	 of	 being	 under	 their	 influence,	 the	 masters	 of
everything.	Everything.	Now,	let	us	see	the	life	of	Christ,	and	what	He	has	done,	people
are	calling	miracles.
And	why	He	has	done	it?	Fishermen,	His	disciples,	went	just	to	fish	and	have	some	fish	to
sell,	 get	 money	 for	 their	 family.	 They	 couldn't	 do	 anything.	 Who	 created	 these
circumstances	of	not	having	anything?	By	themselves	being	anti-magnetic,	not	throwing
things	towards	them,	but	parsing	them.
How?	Maybe	by	not	believing	they	could	fish	that	day.	So	these	psychical	dispositions
are	affecting	everything	around	us.	Sir,	all	the	night	we	are	trying	to	fish	and	have	some,
and	we	got	nothing.
Just	go	again	now,	with	me.	Be	with	me.	You	will	find	this	in	the	New	Testament	Bible.
They	went	to	fishing	boats	with	Peter	and	with	the	others.	They	couldn't	just	throw	up
the	nets.	They	got	so	much	fish	that	nearly	the	fishing	boats	were	going	down.
We	are	looking	at	Him.	How	did	He	gather	all	that	fish?	For	them.	Magic.
No.	But	showing	them	another	example.	How?	Yes.

We	can	gather	living	fish	and	come	in	the	nets	and	you	bring	it.	Here	it	is.	But	I	can
provide	you	with	cooked	and	ready	fish	from	the	inside	out.
They	are	looking	at	Him.	They	are	preaching	Him,	teaching	Him,	giving	Him	psychical
food.	But	Christ	thought	that	they	were	hungry	and	the	stomach	needed	material	food.
And	 He	 thought	 of	 providing	 even	 that.	 He	 said	 to	 His	 disciples,	 look	 here.	 All	 these
people	are	worried.
Tired.	Listening	to	me.	No.
We	can't	tell	them,	go.	Hungry.	We	are	looking	at	Him.
What	do	we	have	here?	Two	fish	and	five	little	loaves	of	bread.	Tell	them	to	sit	down.	Sit
down.
He	said,	bring	them.	He	blessed	them,	started	working	with	them.	Giving	them,	giving
them,	without	being	exhausted,	the	two	fish	and	the	five	little	loaves	of	bread.
They	were	looking	at	Him.	He	gave	food,	fish	and	bread	to	5,000	men	except	the	women
and	the	children	in	one	occasion.	And	repeating	this	again	for	a	second	time,	maybe	to
stimulate	more	their	faith.
He	 gave	 the	 fish	 and	 bread	 to	 4,000	 again	 except	 the	 women	 and	 children	 in	 two
occasions.	I	believe	He	has	done	it	on	many,	many	occasions	but	they	just	mentioned
only	 two	 occasions	 which	 means,	 who	 are	 from	 Kikwot?	 All	 that	 substance	 from	 this
earth.	Yes.
He	knew	how	to	transform	substance	into	matter.	And	what	is	God	doing	all	the	time	for
us?	Is	not	God	the	Father	not	doing	this	to	our	eyes	now	without	being	able	to	see	it?	All
the	food	you	will	eat	after	a	year	does	not	exist	now.	You	come	from	this	earth,	from
water,	from	circumstances,	from	things	to	grow.
What	are	those	things	you	will	eat	after	a	year?	As	animals,	flesh	and	all	these	things,	do
they	exist	now?	No.	But	is	not	the	same	miracle	repeated	all	the	time?	Yes.	What	is	the
creation	now?	We	are	gods.
We	can	develop	in	us	this	creating	ability	but	we	must	find	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens
which	is	in	us	to	be	able	to	do	all	that.	So	what	is	now	the	wrong	in	enslaving	ourselves
in	little	or	more	things?	You	may	say	much.	Yes,	from	certain	point	of	view.
But	much	means	everything.	You	can	have	everything.	Once	a	fellow	learns	how	to	use
the	ether	around	us.
Like	 little	 fish	 swimming	 in	 an	 ocean	 of	 energy.	 And	 yet	 we	 say,	 I	 feel	 I	 don't	 have
enough	energy.	Just	a	little	fish	swimming	in	an	ocean	of	water	saying	there	is	no	water.

Nothing	more	stupid.	So	we	have	just	to	know	which	is	this	energy,	which	is	the	mind.
Use	the	mind.
And	find	who	we	are	being	able	to	use	the	mind.	But	to	reach	to	that	point,	we	must
know	how	to	construct.	I	don't	want	to	use	for	the	time	being	the	word	create.
These	elementals	we	are	doing	it	now	subconsciously	and	most	awkwardly.	Consciously
and	let	us	self-consciously	to	be	able	to	do	that.	We	must	find	in	us	our	real	nature	which
is	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens	which	is	in	us.
Our	father	who	is	in	heaven	in	us.	Hallowed	be	thy	name.	How?	Just	by	realizing	what	is
that	name?	God.
Thy	kingdom	come	on	earth	in	our	material	bodies	as	it	is	in	heaven.	In	your	heavens,
everywhere.	Who	understood?	Just	this	prayer.
The	only	one	prayer	that	Joshua	Banner	of	Christ	has	given.	He	didn't	give	any	other
prayers.	Only	one.
But	we	should	enter	in	the	meaning	of	this	prayer.	So,	what	is	our	aim?	It	is	just	to
understand	who	we	are	now	as	human	beings	the	shadow	of	the	self	having	in	it	the
parts	of	life	which	is	our	real	self.	Find	out	the	difference	between	the	shadow,	petty,
time	and	place,	created	self,	which	is	nothing	more	than	your	egoism.
The	sum	total	of	your	emotions	and	thoughts	of	those	elementals.	Start	now	consciously
at	the	beginning	creating	constructive	elementals.	Not	listening	to	that	state	of	our,	let
us	call	it	material	earthly	self,	which	is	the	egoism.
But	 instruct	 it.	 Deprive	 from	 it	 its	 influence	 and	 its	 power	 over	 nearly	 everything
concerning	 our	 life.	 Master	 it	 until	 we	 get	 the	 experiences	 in	 the	 material	 world	 and
teach	that	little	devil	called	the	egoism	that	your	behavior	and	your	works	are	evil.
The	parts	of	life	in	you	is	me.	You	are	not	me.	I	am	you.
And	 I	 can	 purify	 you	 and	 change	 you	 and	 draw	 you	 back	 as	 the	 parts	 of	 life.	 Which
means	we	are	not	going	to	hate	our	present	day	personality.	For	God's	sake.
We	are	going	just	to	transmute	it	to	our	real	self.	Nobody	hates	his	children.	He	loves
them,	even	if	they	are	naughty.
They	will	grow	up.	So,	our	aim	is	not	destroying	or	dissolving	but	transmuting,	changing
to	the	inner	reality.	Tomorrow	we	speak	more	about	the	creation	of	elementals.
This	subject	is	never	exhausted.	But	we	have	just	to	study	the	desires,	the	emotions,
how	they	are	created.	How	we	see	them	in	a	different	light	than	the	light	emanating
from	the	sun.

From	another	kind	of	light.	A	psychical	light	who	is	giving	knowledge	and	understanding.
This	light	emanating	from	the	sun	or	from	any	other	object	is	giving	you	the	sense	of
knowing	the	existence	of	certain	things.
It	does	not	give	you	this	light,	understanding.	But	there	is	another	light.	A	purer	light.
The	psychical	light.	The	nautical	light.	And	still	there	is	the	great	light	which	is	the	light
which	is	never	extinguished.
Which	is	Joshua	Manuel	Christ's	love,	the	selfhood.	I	am	the	light	of	the	world.	He	didn't
say,	I	am	the	light	of	the	sun.
He	said,	I	am	the	light	of	the	world.	And	of	course	we	shall	understand	these	sentences
with	which	Johanna	or	St.	John	the	Evangelist	starts	his	gospel.	In	him	is	life	and	the	life
is	the	light	of	men.
We	will	analyze	even	that.	Yes.	Now	we	make	a	meditation.
Relax	completely.	Feel	you	are	in	the	material	body.	From	the	toes	to	the	head.
See	that	you	are	relaxed	completely	in	the	material	body.	This	minute	and	always	in	this
material	body	you	are	now	calling	it	yours.	Definitely	not	yourself.
The	heart	is	beating.	It	started	beating	at	the	time	of	your	birth.	And	it	will	continue
beating	 until	 the	 silver	 cord	 joining	 your	 other	 body	 with	 the	 material	 body	 will	 be
broken.
So	the	silver	cord	is	in	your	material	heart.	And	that	silver	cord	is	making	your	heart
beat.	Try	to	feel	the	parts	of	life	in	your	body.
You	are	living	who	you	are	living	in	that	material	body.	Your	personality	yet	having	in	it
the	parts	of	life	which	is	you.	The	personality	is	not	you.
The	 sum	 total	 of	 you	 are	 elementals.	 And	 the	 egoism	 is	 the	 expression	 of	 these
elementals,	good	or	bad.	It's	not	you.
You	are	the	parts	of	life.	The	parts	of	life	is	the	selfhood.	You	have	to	study	who	you	are
as	a	human	being	now.
Living	in	this	material	body.	And	by	studying	that	you	will	be	able	just	to	concentrate
your	attention	and	the	observation	on	the	other	bodies.	And	you	will	develop	what	you
call	the	self-consciousness.
Who	do	you	think	you	are	as	a	man	or	as	a	woman?	You	are	preaching.	You	started
preaching	the	time	you	were	born	and	will	be	preaching	until	you	leave	the	last	breath
and	leave	the	material	body.	You	are	preaching	subconsciously.

But	now	you	can	control	breath.	You	can	breathe	consciously.	And	later	to	be	taught	to
breathe	self-consciously.
Now	you	are	preaching	the	vital	energy	around	you.	In	the	air	you	are	preaching.	But
that's	not	all.
Now	start	preaching	deeply,	consciously.	Feel	the	air.	Feel	your	lungs.
You	are	feeling	the	lungs	with	this	vital	energy.	Now	you	are	working	on	the	etheric
double	of	your	material	body.	Feel	your	body	with	this	energy.
You	have	to	value	this	material	body	of	yours.	And	value	the	work	done	using	the	total
wisdom	and	the	divine	plant,	the	holy	archangels,	the	lords	of	the	elements.	Because
you	are	brethren	in	spirit.
A	great	work	every	moment	is	accomplished	in	your	material	body.	Even	the	nails	of
your	hands,	of	your	toes	are	growing.	Every	hair	is	growing.
Feel	that	you	are	completely	relaxed	in	your	material	body.	And	ask	from	the	lords	of	the
elements	and	the	lord	of	the	selfhood,	the	human	selfhood,	Christ,	to	give	perfect	health
in	your	material	body.	He	is	willing	to	do	so	if	you	don't	interfere	with	the	work	of	the
holy	archangels.
In	living	and	in	a	disturbed	way.	Feel	completely	relaxed	in	your	material	body	and	put
this	question,	who	am	I	really?	A	man	or	a	woman?	Without	knowing	a	reality,	who	I	am,
yet	I	think	I	know.	But	I	must	know	so	that	I	will	know	later	what	I	am	as	a	spirit,	ego,
self-consciousness.
Enough.	Now,	let	us	work	also	on	the	psychical	plane	a	little.	By	what	you	call	seeing	by
the	mind.
Visualization	by	visualizing.	Later	we	shall	know	what	it	means	remembering	or	bringing
from	the	self-consciousness	to	the	surface	of	our	self-consciousness	images,	elementals.
Bring	 in	 front	 of	 you	 the	 face	 of	 a	 certain	 fellow,	 man	 or	 a	 woman,	 you	 had	 certain
differences	 which	 had	 created	 enmity,	 hatred,	 certain	 other	 feelings,	 and	 bring	 that
person	in	front	of	you	now	and	see	from	your	heart	emanating	a	sun	of	rosy	light,	the
rays	of	rosy	light	emanating	from	a	sun	in	your	heart.
See	covering	this	face	of	that	fellow,	man	or	a	woman,	with	that	light	of	your	heart	and
see	that	person	smiling,	satisfied,	and	tell	that	person	that	you	love	him	or	love	her.	Love
now	has	a	different	meaning	to	you	than	real	love.	You	wish	nothing	evil	to	come	on	that
person.
See	that	person	smiling,	satisfied.	It	doesn't	mean	that	you	will	just	approach	again	on
the	material	plane.	Make	the	approach	mentally	enough.

Feelings	like	complaints,	hatred,	jealousy,	enmity	are	dangerous	poisons	in	your	system.
They	may	create	cancers,	ulcers,	and	many,	many,	many	other	illnesses.	So	it	is	for	your
own	sake	to	banish	these	feelings	from	you.
Loving	 your	 enemies,	 you	 are	 benefiting	 yourself	 by	 casting	 out	 dangerous	 poisons,
because	 all	 illnesses	 are	 caused	 by	 these	 poisons	 in	 our	 system.	 The	 meditation	 my
daughter	is	giving	you	is	on	a	higher	plane,	the	nautical	and	the	psychical.	They	are
most	 necessary,	 but	 you	 must	 start	 also	 purifying	 the	 material	 body	 and	 the	 etheric
double.
They	are	also,	through	the	etheric	double,	in	higher	realms	of	consciousness.