

Elementals	Part	2
The	Tzadukis,	Tzadukis,	a	sect	of	the	Hebrew	Israelites,	during	the	time	of	Joshua	the
Christ,	 came	 to	 Christ	 and	 asked	 Him	 and	 said,	 Lord,	 just	 amongst	 us	 there	 was	 a
woman,	who	was	married	to	a	certain	person,	he	died,	and	the	second	son	got	her	as	his
wife,	the	second	husband	has	died,	and	the	third	one	got	her	as	his	wife.	There	were
seven	male	persons	in	the	family,	and	all	of	them	had	taken	that	woman	as	their	wife.
The	Tzadukis	did	not	believe	in	the	resurrection	of	the	soul.
Now	in	the	after	death	life,	this	woman,	to	whom	she	will	belong?	Of	the	seven	brothers,
and	Christ	said,	in	the	kingdom	of	the	heavens,	they	are	not	marrying	or	getting	married,
but	there	the	self	is	like	the	angels	in	heaven.	He	spoke	clearly	about	the	self.	So	the
self,	the	I-ness,	has	no	sex.
How	shall	we	find	our	self?	We	are	a	man	or	a	woman,	living	a	certain	environment,	in	a
certain	 place,	 in	 the	 present	 time.	 Now,	 we	 hear	 to	 a	 name	 given	 us,	 and	 we	 are
influenced	by	the	circumstances	all	around	us.	We	are	shaken	by	desires	and	emotions,
we	are	tortured	by	thoughts,	entangled	with	desires	and	emotions,	and	we	feel	unhappy
and	unsatisfied.
Sometimes	we	are	crying,	we	are	getting	angry,	we	express	a	very	bad	temper,	we	try
just	to	enforce	to	others	our	will,	whether	we	succeed	to	that	or	not,	we	are	causing	pain
to	others	also,	and	to	ourselves,	to	find	out	that	we	are	all	the	time	unhappy.	Then	we
start	 reasoning,	 who	 am	 I,	 who,	 in	 the	 course	 of	 time,	 I	 have	 all	 these	 experiences,
painful,	sometimes	pleasing,	and	that	goes	on.	Who	am	I?	Mary?	There	are	thousands	of
Marys	hearing	to	that	name,	and	they	are	not	feeling	the	same	thing.
So	the	name	has	nothing	to	do.	A	coincidence.	Then,	who	am	I?	It's	clear.
Let	me	start	from	the	very	beginning.	I	am	George.	I	cast	away	George.
What	remains	is	I	am.	Now	let	us	think,	what	is	that?	I	am.	I	shows	my	nature.
Am	shows	the	way	I	exist,	living.	Even	if	I	cast	am	out,	it	remains	the	I,	the	I-ness.	It	is
necessary	to	cast	out	the	second	word,	am.
It	is	impossible	to	cast	away	my	nature,	which	is	eternal	life.	Am	is	not	denoting	any
period	of	time.	And	out	of	necessity,	I	say,	I	am	I.	That	I	is	just	counting.
That	I	is	the	self.	So,	our	self	is	immortal.	It's	life	itself.
It's	God.	A	being,	as	billions	and	billions	and	billions	of	other	beings,	immortal,	in	the
everlasting	 life,	 in	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness.	 Then	 what's	 the	 absolute	 infinite
beingness?	The	absolute	infinite	selfhood.

Then	what's	the	selfhood?	Knowing	what	I	am.	And	how	the	absolute	infinite	beingness
knows	itself.	Because	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	expresses	its	total	wisdom.
So,	expresses	a	will	pleasure.	And	what	do	we	find?	Being	similar	to	the	absolute	infinite
beingness,	we	are	expressing	a	self	and	a	will.	Now	it	depends	what's	this	will?	How	do
we	express	our	nature?	Now,	for	the	research.
We	say	that	the	present	day	personality,	which	is	the	sum	total	of	the	elementals	we
have	created	or	revitalized,	and	which	exists	now	in	the	etheric	double	of	our	material
body,	 in	 the	 psychical	 body	 and	 its	 etheric	 double,	 building	 for	 us	 our	 hells	 or	 our
paradises.	And	in	the	nautical	world,	again	extending	our	hells	or	paradises.	Now	I	know
what	is	our	present	day	personality.
A	human	body,	energy,	emotions,	desires	and	thoughts.	What	more	can	be	our	present
day	personality?	Plus	the	I-ness	in	it.	So	our	personality	is	the	dress	we	are	wearing	in
time	and	place.
And	if	we	take	out	these	dresses	of	ours,	another	coat,	a	coat	or	a	shirt,	we	are	we.	We
are	not	changing.	By	introspection,	one	will	find	it	out.
But	 before	 being	 able	 to	 detach	 ourselves	 from	 our	 dresses,	 we	 must	 examine	 them.
How	do	we	make	them?	Are	they	clean?	Dirty?	Do	we	need	to	clean	them?	Do	we	have
to	check	our	emotions	and	make	changes	in	our	personality?	Because	our	personality	is
the	sum	total	of	the	elementals.	Now,	in	introspection	we	find	that	the	sum	total	of	the
elementals	 has	 created	 around	 our	 bodies	 a	 new	 entity,	 which	 is	 the	 egoism	 of	 our
present	day	personality,	ruling	now.
And	 we	 make	 the	 mistake	 to	 think	 that	 it	 is	 our	 self.	 Now,	 this	 sum	 total	 of	 the
elementals,	 according	 to	 their	 nature	 and	 vibrations,	 is	 composing	 what	 we	 say	 our
subconsciousness.	And	we	are	always	under	its	influence.
Whether	we	are	aware	of	it	or	not,	we	are	under	the	influence	of	these	elementals.	So,
shall	we	say	that	this	subconsciousness	of	ours	is	our	storehouse	of	something	valuable
or	filthy	we	are	keeping?	Keeping	things	alive	now,	powerful.	Yes,	that's	it.
So,	 this	 is	 the	 one	 side	 of	 our	 so-called	 subconsciousness.	 A	 storehouse	 of	 the
elementals,	 good	 and	 or	 evil.	 Having	 a	 ruler	 imposing	 its	 obstinacy,	 not	 will,	 on	 us
misleading	us	that	we	are	that.
This	is	the	one	side	of	the	subconsciousness.	Now,	we	said	that	every	elemental,	apart
from	its	form,	has	a	vibration	projecting	it	around	it.	So,	our	subconsciousness	has	its
aura,	its	vibrations.
Now,	another	side	of	our	so-called	subconsciousness,	which	is	our	etheric	double	of	our
material	 body,	 is	 the	 storehouse	 of	 the	 etheric	 vitality.	 The	 one	 side	 is	 ruled	 by	 the

egoism	of	the	personality.	But	on	the	other	side	of	our	subconsciousness,	the	storehouse
of	the	etheric	vitality	is	under	the	orders	of	the	holy	archangels	of	the	elements	and	of
the	Holy	Spirit,	Spiritus.
So,	 it	 is	 in	 us.	 We	 said	 that	 the	 holy	 archangels	 of	 the	 elements	 are	 building	 up	 our
bodies.	So,	we	see	in	our	so-called	subconsciousness	a	dirty	underground	of	personality.
An	ice	building,	the	abode	of	the	archangels	and	of	the	Holy	Spirit.	And	now,	what	is	the
Christ,	 the	 Locus?	 Who	 is	 the	 Christ,	 the	 Locus?	 Staying	 or	 leaving,	 according	 to	 our
religion,	in	the	whole	subconsciousness	of	ours.	Because	the	Locus	includes	in	its	local
selfhood	the	selves	of	all	of	us.
Says	Yohanan	in	his	Gospel.	In	Him	is	life.	And	life	is	the	light	of	all	men.
So,	 expressing	 a	 selfhood	 ourselves,	 we	 are	 in	 Him,	 in	 the	 Locus.	 And,	 of	 course,	 in
Joshua	 the	 Christ,	 which	 is	 an	 immaculate	 ray	 of	 the	 Locus.	 So,	 the	 Church	 is	 right,
saying	that	He	is	shouldering	the	burdens	and	the	sins	of	all	men.
And	this	is	the	truth.	What	is	He	advising	us?	He	is	stronger	to	shoulder	the	burdens	of
the	weaker.	This	is	the	difference	between	Christianity	and	all	other	systems	of	religions,
especially	the	Hindu	religion.
So,	in	our	subconsciousness,	in	the	dirty	underground,	the	sum	total	of	the	elementals,
composing	our	personality,	is	ruling	the	egoism.	And	the	Locus	Christ	there	is	trying	to
wake	us	up	and	tell	us	that	you	are	gods	and	sons	of	the	Almighty.	You	are	not	unhappy
creatures	of	time	and	place.
And	He	is	also,	in	the	main	building,	who	are	the	Holy	Archangels,	being	in	Him	also,	and
the	Holy	Spirit,	which	is	in	Him	also,	expecting	us	to	leave	the	underground	and	live	in	a
better	place.	Read	in	the	Bible	the	parable	of	the	lost	son.	It	is	clear.
And	 what	 did	 Joshua	 the	 Christ	 say	 to	 His	 disciples?	 In	 the	 home	 of	 my	 Father,	 the
Kingdom	of	the	Heavens,	which	is	in	you,	there	are	many	mansions,	and	I	go	to	prepare
a	 place	 for	 you.	 Or	 I	 go	 to	 prepare	 a	 place	 for	 you.	 So	 the	 sense	 of	 place	 is	 in	 the
Kingdom	of	the	Heavens,	which	is	in	us.
One	should	understand	the	real	teaching	of	Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Christ.	But	who	is,	not
was,	 Joshua	 Emmanuel	 the	 Christ,	 an	 Immaculate	 Ray	 of	 the	 Locust,	 who	 willingly
humanized	and	materialized	a	self	in	a	young	man,	who	had	lived	as	a	human	being
thirty-three	years	only,	had	been	crucified	by	men,	knowing	He	was	the	Locust,	not	yet
being	thirty	years	of	age.	He	said,	before	the	foundation	of	the	world,	before	mountains
and	earth	existed,	I	am.
He	finished.	I	am.	Which	means,	what	is	He	now?	He	is	the	Locoic	Selfhood,	including	in
Himself	the	selves	of	every	one	of	us.

So	we	are	in	Him,	and	He	is	in	us.	He	is	also	the	Lord	of	the	dirty	underground.	We	make
dirty,	which	is	our	subconsciousness.
Now,	 it	 says,	 the	 King,	 which	 means	 after	 He	 entered	 in	 His	 Kingdom,	 His	 Divine
Kingdom,	yet	keeping	His	human	selfhood,	what	did	He	say?	He	said	to	some,	come	near
me,	you	blessed	ones,	because	when	you	saw	me	hungry,	you	gave	me	to	eat.	When
you	 saw	 me	 thirsty,	 you	 gave	 me	 to	 drink.	 When	 you	 saw	 me	 naked,	 you	 gave	 Him
something	to	put	on.
And	so	on.	He	said,	Sir,	when	we	had	seen	you	hungry	and	we	gave	you	to	eat,	or	thirsty,
or	naked,	He	said,	in	so	much	as	you	have	done	to	one	of	these	least	brethren	of	mine,
you	have	done	it	to	me.	Because	He	is	in	every	one	of	us.
And	we	are	in	Him.	Whatever	one	is	doing	to	another	human	being,	He	is	doing	it	to	him.
Now,	what	do	you	think?	It	was	the	cup.
The	 last	 moment	 before	 being	 arrested.	 He	 had	 asked	 His	 Father,	 if	 it	 is	 His	 will,	 to
remove	it	from	Him.	The	crucifixion	of	His	body?	No.
He	predicted	it	many	times	in	the	Bible	to	His	disciples.	And	He	said,	for	this	moment	I
came.	I	am	telling	you,	the	flesh	is	nothing.
It	is	the	Spirit	which	is	giving	life.	I	prove	it.	He	said,	I	can	lay	down	my	life	and	take	it.
Because	I	am	an	immortal	self.	He	said,	I	will	be	crucified.	And	I	will	rise.
Even	my	material	body.	Because	He	said,	I	am	the	resurrection.	And	He	had	proved	it.
So,	what	is	Christ,	the	Josiah	the	Christ,	doing	now?	Working	for	the	resurrection	of	every
one	of	us	as	gods	to	wake	us	up	from	the	slumber	of	time	and	place.	So,	Christ	is	in
every	one	of	us	and	we	are	in	Him.	We'll	ask	Him	just	to	help	us	clean	that	underground
which	is	our	subconsciousness.
So,	to	know	the	quality	of	our	subconsciousness,	we	must	start	studying	one	by	one	our
desires	 and	 emotions	 and	 weaknesses	 and	 try	 to	 clean	 them.	 Clean	 them.	 How?
Disenergizing	them.
Because	the	substance	by	which	they	are	made	is	holy.	It	is	the	mind.	So,	we	have	just
to	make	the	substance	clean	again.
And	sooner	or	later	this	will	take	place.	The	mind	super	substance	cannot	remain	a	filthy,
bad-smelling	mud.	power	enslaving	the	thoughts	to	the	emotions	and	to	the	desires.
As	water	and	earth	we	created	a	bad-smelling	mud.	But	a	higher	principle	which	is	heat.
Mind	risen.

By	 heat	 it	 will	 be	 evaporation.	 And	 the	 filthy	 water	 in	 the	 mud	 sooner	 or	 later	 will
become	the	dew	on	the	leaves	of	the	trees.	And	the	matter	the	earth	will	be	clean	and
pure	again.
So,	courage.	Ask	Him	to	be	the	heat	and	the	light	in	us	to	help	us	transform	this	dirty
mud	which	is	our	subconscious	to	see	the	water	again	as	dew	on	the	leaves	and	the
flowers.	And	the	earth	pure.
Now,	boldly	we	should	enter	in	our	subconscious.	Start	checking.	Finding	and	examining
every	elemental	in	it.
And	by	using	the	heat	the	willpower	and	the	light.	Understanding.	Reason.
Disenergize	 all	 those	 elementals.	 Making	 thought	 mind	 pure.	 And	 make	 weaknesses
vanish.
Use	the	heat.	Cautiously.	He.
We.	Which	is	love.	The	heat	which	will	make	the	miracle	to	transform	the	muddy	bad
smelling	just	that	mud	our	hatreds	our	jealousies	our	enmities	our	wishes	of	attacking
and	causing	harm	to	others	can	be	overcome	by	love.
We	 cannot	 say	 that	 other	 fellow	 men	 being	 in	 Christ	 and	 Christ	 is	 in	 them	 are	 our
enemies.	 How	 did	 Christ	 Joshua	 the	 Christ	 had	 proved	 this	 great	 love?	 He	 said	 to	 his
disciples	they	will	arrest	me.	And	the	high	priests	and	the	scribes	the	high	priests	and
the	scribes	will	strike	me	will	spit	at	me	will	matrid	me	will	give	me	to	the	Gentiles	to	the
Romans.
They	will	crucify	me	and	kill	me.	He	said	that.	Now	we	go	to	Jerusalem	for	that	moment.
He	was	a	perfect	human	being.	Just	see	what	he	suffered.	Let	us	follow	his	martyrdom.
He	didn't	complain.	He	didn't	get	angry.	Serene	and	calm.
He	 was	 carrying	 his	 cross.	 Just	 imagine	 nailing	 him	 on	 the	 cross.	 They	 threw	 him	 a
crown.
A	body	full	of	blood	and	wounds.	When	he	was	on	the	cross	they	were	mocking	him.
What	were	his	last	words?	Father,	forgive	them.
They	don't	know	what	they	are	doing.	Finish.	To	your	hands	I	commend	my	spirit.
Was	he	God	or	not?	Could	a	human	being	do	that?	He	has	proved	he	was	God.	Even	as
Joshua	Emmanuel	the	Godman.	He	had	asked	his	father	to	move	that	cup	of	bloodshed.
How	much	bloodshed	was	in	the	past?	Lots	of	blood.	In	his	name.	The	name	of	God.

And	now	even.	So	have	in	your	mind	whatever	the	one	is	doing	to	the	other	is	doing	it	to
him.	And	he	knows	and	he	feels	the	pain	of	everybody	that	he	says	to	his	father	forgive
them.
They	do	not	know	what	they	are	doing.	And	repeating	it	just	seeing	the	weaknesses	of
human	beings	killing	others	make	others	suffer.	It	doesn't	mean	that	this	is	making	us
free	from	our	responsibilities.
We	should	love	one	another.	If	we	are	to	be	called	Christians.	Some	do	not	like	to	have
this	name.
Never	mind.	If	we	are	to	be	called	human	and	not	beasts	we	have	to	love	one	another.
Now.
We'll	make	a	minute.	Relax	completely.	Christ	is	here	with	us.
Where	there	are	two	or	three	gathered	in	my	name	I	am	amongst	them.	And	those	who
can	feel	him	now	I	can	feel	him	and	I	can	see	him.	In	every	one	of	you.
And	everywhere.	Now.	Calm	completely	your	material	body	and	thank	him	for	giving	you
the	material	body	to	live	in	it.
And	thank	him	for	giving	you	the	mind	as	the	light	to	enlighten	your	life.	See	in	front	of
you	someone	with	whom	you	have	problems	and	troubles.	In	the	world	you	will	have
troubles.
He	said.	But	rejoice.	I	have	won	the	war.
And	you	can	do	it.	Overcome	weaknesses	and	hatreds	and	enmities.	See.
See	people	with	whom	you	have	differences	happy.	Don't	allow	the	equals	to	come	and
interfere.	See	that	there	is	a	sun	in	your	heart.
Reflecting	light.	It's	he.	In	him	is	life	and	the	life	is	the	light	of	men.
Reflect	his	light.	On	the	face	of	the	people	of	the	person	you	have	differences.	See	that
light	of	your	heart.
His	love.	Make	that	person	now	happy.	Smiling.
Tell	him.	You	love	him	or	you	love	her.	Bring	another	person.
Now.	You	have	certain	difficulties	with	that	person.	Keep	from	your	heart	his	light	and
your	light.
See	happy	faces.	Clean	our	hearts	to	reflect	your	love	towards	you	and	towards	other
human	beings.	Now	bring	persons	that	you	love.

Tell	them	so.	And	tell	them	not	to	allow	differences.	To	alter	this	love.
Maybe	the	devil	as	your	personal	egoist	may	appear	now.	Chase	that	egoist	away.	Gods
are	not	slaves	of	egoism.
Or	personally.	Gods	are	love.	Now	make	your	heart	shine	as	a	sun	of	love.
Spread	your	love	everywhere.