

Elementals	Part	1
In	the	absolute	infinite	beingness	God,	apart	from	its	self-sufficiency,	there	is	also	the
will-pleasure	to	express	itself	in	itself	as	his	total	wisdom.	This	will-pleasure	causes	the
emanation	 from	 itself	 of	 the	 mind.	 There	 was	 never	 a	 time	 the	 total	 wisdom	 of	 the
infinite	 beingness	 was	 not	 expressed,	 and	 there	 will	 never	 be	 any	 time	 in	 which	 the
absolute	beingness	will	not	express	itself	as	phenomena	of	life	using	his	divine	plan.
Now,	 the	 time	 the	 absolute	 beingness	 reflects	 itself	 in	 itself,	 which	 was	 always	 the
absolute	 beingness,	 is	 the	 locus.	 The	 time	 the	 absolute	 beingness	 expresses	 itself
dynamically,	using	the	mind	as	energy	in	its	creativeness,	the	absolute	infinite	beingness
is	 the	 Holy	 Spirit.	 We	 have	 the	 absolute	 infinite	 beingness	 in	 too	 much	 of	 being	 and
existing.
Now,	the	mind.	The	mind	is	everywhere,	in	various	degrees	of	vibrations.	The	human
intelligence	 can	 understand	 the	 mind	 as	 formless	 super-substance,	 as	 substance,	 as
ether,	and	as	matter.
So,	everything	existing	is	made	of	the	mind.	The	mind	is	not	God,	but	it's	holy.	So,	a
human	 being,	 what's	 a	 human	 being?	 An	 entity	 using	 a	 material	 body	 and	 the	 other
bodies,	is	using	the	mind	subconsciously.
Now,	the	mind	being	everywhere,	a	super-substance,	is	ready	to	take	forms.	A	fellow,
someone,	seeing	something,	even	before	thinking	about	it,	this	creates	an	elemental.
Now,	an	elemental	is	a	form	made	of	mind.
Everything	that	is	interesting	to	us,	drawing	our	attention	and	occupying	our	thoughts,	is
creating	 an	 elemental.	 An	 elemental	 has	 always	 a	 form.	 Without	 a	 form,	 nothing	 can
exist.
So,	 shall	 we	 say	 that	 everything	 existing	 in	 the	 material	 world	 are	 materialized
elementals	 of	 the	 Archangels?	 Everything	 has	 a	 form.	 Yes.	 So,	 everything	 around	 us
having	a	form	is	an	elemental.
Now,	this	elemental	has	its	own	life	because	the	mind	is	living.	But	what	kind	of	life?	This
is	something	we	must	study.	So,	every	elemental	has	a	form.
Every	wish,	wish,	every	emotion,	every	thought	by	a	human	being	creates	an	elemental
having	a	form.	If	the	human	being	is	not	making	the	form	for	the	elemental	by	his	or	her
thought	and	desire,	the	elemental	gets	a	form	according	to	its	nature.	The	forms	of	the
elementals	of	evil,	of	weaknesses,	of	hatred,	of	envy,	of	enmity,	they	have	terrible	forms.
And	 if	 a	 man	 could	 see	 them,	 he	 would	 be	 terrified	 himself	 by	 what	 he	 is	 doing
subconsciously.	Sometimes	people	see	these	elementals	thinking	they	are	dreaming	and
they	are	terrible	nightmares.	So,	all	the	elementals	have	a	form	according	to	their	nature

or	according	to	our	visualization.
They	have	a	life	of	their	own.	They	have	intelligence.	This	intelligence	is	according	to	the
intelligence	of	their	creator	or	of	the	ones	who	revitalize	them.
So,	these	elementals	are	active	on	the	aura	of	the	etheric	double	of	a	human	being.	They
are	 active.	 If	 they	 are	 de-energized,	 they	 enter	 in	 the	 mind-cosmic	 consciousness,
inactive,	to	the	group	which	is	vibrating	according	to	their	vibration.
So,	we	have	groups,	many	groups,	in	our	atmosphere,	in	the	psychical	plane	and	in	the
ethical	 plane,	 groups.	 We	 have	 a	 group	 of	 stealing,	 of	 adultery,	 of	 gambling,	 of
alcoholism,	 and	 of	 many,	 many	 other	 things.	 These	 are	 group	 elementals	 which	 are
everywhere.
So,	 the	 elementals,	 a	 fellow	 de-energizes,	 enters	 in	 the	 relative	 group	 elemental,
tormented	in	the	cosmic	consciousness.	You	say,	but	all	those	elementals	have	the	same
strength,	stealing.	It	might	be	something	very	serious,	it	might	be	just	not	very	serious,
stealing.
That	 elemental	 gets	 a	 place	 in	 the	 group	 elemental	 according	 to	 its	 strength	 and
purpose.	The	same	thing	with	the	elementals	of	adultery,	of	drinking,	of	gambling.	So,
when	a	fellow	vibrates	in	its	psychical	body,	to	a	certain	degree	of	that	elemental,	it
draws	from	the	group	elemental	an	elemental	sleeping	just	to	the	same	vibrations	of	his
vibration.
Then,	 he's	 revitalizing	 that	 elemental.	 That	 elemental	 enters	 in	 his	 aura,	 if	 that's	 an
intense	desire	or	strong	emotion,	they	enter	in	the	etheric	table	of	the	psychical	body
and	are	reflected	on	the	etheric	table	of	the	material	body,	even	taking	a	form	in	the
noetical	body.	So,	as	a	human	being	has	a	material	body,	his	etheric	table,	a	psychical
body,	his	etheric	table,	and	a	noetical	body,	and	his	etheric	table,	an	elemental	has	a
noetical	table,	a	noetical	form,	a	psychical	table,	the	same	form	in	psychical	substance,
and	a	form	in	the	ethereal	world,	remaining	on	the	aura	of	the	fellow	who	either	creates
it	or	is	revitalizing	it.
The	 elementals,	 90%	 of	 them,	 do	 not	 possess	 a	 material	 body,	 but	 they	 can	 be
materialized,	because	our	etheric	table	is	ether	matter.	In	certain	circumstances,	they
are	materialized,	and	they	can	be	seen	by	people	with	their	material	life,	though	they
are	not	visible,	these	elementals,	the	so-called	negative	body	elementals,	created	by	bad
action.	They	have	such	great	strength	in	them	to	create	disasters	on	the	material	plane,
not	visible,	but	sometimes	terrible.
These	elementals,	many	times,	are	causing	accidents.	Now,	an	elemental,	apart	from	its
form,	its	strength,	and	the	purpose	in	it,	has	a	radiation.	The	elemental	has	a	certain
form	in	a	certain	place,	but	the	radiation	is	going	sometimes	kilometers	away	from	the

elemental.
Now,	what	these	radiations	have	in	them,	not	the	purpose	the	elemental	was	revitalized,
but	the	character	and	the	nature	of	the	element,	be	it	good	or	evil,	is	something	I	have
observed	 myself.	 During	 the	 national	 day,	 many	 people,	 Greeks,	 have	 just	 their
celebration,	 trumpets	 and	 drums,	 parodies.	 They	 create	 an	 elemental,	 call	 it	 Greek
national	elemental,	but	at	the	same	time,	this	elemental	vibrates,	covering	the	whole
island,	and	maybe	further.
What	it	makes,	this	vibration?	Exciting	the	same	feeling	to	the	Turkish	Cypriots,	even	to
the	Turks	in	Turkey,	they	are	not	very	far	away,	to	the	Armenians,	to	others,	and	just
they	have	that	excitement,	that	national	feeling,	which	means	that	everybody	influences
the	environment	around	him.	These	kinds	of	elementals	are	clashing,	because	the	Greek
national	 elemental	 and	 the	 Turkish	 national	 elemental	 are	 not	 coinciding	 in	 their
purpose.	They	are	causing	evil,	which	means	the	evil	fights	evil.
Now	about	the	good	elementals,	so-called	good	elementals.	There	are	certain	days	of
celebration,	like	Christmas,	Easter,	the	celebrations	about	the	saint,	there	are	services	in
the	church,	because	these	elementals	get	the	form	of	the	saint,	they	are	just	honoring.
Do	saints	exist?	Yes,	definitely	they	exist.
They	are	super-consciousness	around	the	planet,	and	when	those	who	are	called	faithful
to	 them,	 create	 such	 an	 elemental,	 those	 super-intelligences	 are	 using	 it.	 The	 Virgin
Mary	is	using	such	elementals.	Christ	is	using	these	elementals,	even	presenting	what
people	are	calling	miracles,	curing	people.
So	 it	 is	 the	 super-intelligences,	 again,	 and	 actually	 it	 is	 not	 the	 hand,	 it	 is	 the	 mind
behind	it.	So	the	good	elemental	is	the	hand.	Necessary	to	do	something.
Now,	 when	 Greek	 Orthodox,	 or	 Catholics	 in	 Cyprus,	 are	 just	 making	 their	 mass	 and
celebration,	the	vibration	exists,	it	excites	in	the	Turkish,	in	the	Muslims,	their	prayers	to
Allah,	 or	 to	 other	 people,	 just	 praying	 to	 their	 own	 deity,	 which	 means	 good	 is
strengthening	what	is	good.	So,	we	know	what	are	now	the	elementals,	having	a	and
radiating	their	nature.	How	long	is	this	radiation?	We	said	sometimes	some	kilometers.
If	they	are	very	strong,	many	kilometers.	And	certain	elementals,	as	Christmas,	Easter,
and	such	celebrations,	they	are	covering	the	whole	planet.	The	radiation	exists	always.
Even	when	an	elemental	is	dis-energized,	the	vibration	in	the	group	elemental	of	its	kind
exists	 always.	 So,	 getting	 an	 elemental	 from	 the	 group	 elemental,	 soon	 we	 vibrate
according	to	this	rate	of	vibration,	we	vibrate	in	this	radiation,	through	that	radiation,
that	elemental	comes	in	Aurora.	So,	around	us	now,	on	the	planet,	in	the	planet,	many
kilometers	 around	 the	 planet,	 where	 is	 the	 so-called	 Psychical	 World?	 There	 are	 this
group	elementals	of	desires	and	emotions.

The	vibrations	are	existing,	whether	the	elementals	are	dormant,	inactive,	or	not.	So,
these	elementals	are	affecting	only	those,	good	or	evil,	who	vibrate	according	to	their
frequency	of	vibrations.	No	good	man	can	be	influenced	by	evil	elementals	or	radiation.
But	sometimes,	what	you	call	bad	people,	are	influenced	by	the	good	elementals	and	the
good	radiation.	And	I	repeat	again,	evil	attacks	evil,	and	good	is	strengthening	good.	The
light	is	stronger	than	the	darkness.
Now,	what	these	elementals	can	do?	When	a	fellow	starts	vibrating	to	the	rate	of	their
vibration,	 that	 fellow,	 being	 under	 the	 influence	 of	 those	 radiations,	 is	 attracting	 an
elemental	 of	 that	 nature,	 which	 is	 attached	 on	 his	 aura,	 of	 his	 etheric	 double	 of	 the
material	body,	on	the	etheric	double	of	his	Psychical	Body,	and	on	the	etheric	double	of
his	 Nautical	 Body,	 that	 means,	 on	 his	 personality.	 Now,	 what	 is	 the	 personality	 of	 a
human	 being?	 His	 material	 body,	 with	 its	 etheric	 double,	 his	 Psychical	 Body,	 with	 its
etheric	double,	that	means,	his	desires,	intentions,	and	emotions,	and	his	Nautical	Body,
with	 the	 thoughts	 that	 person	 is	 doing,	 reasonable	 or	 not	 reasonable.	 This	 is	 the
composition	of	the	present	day	personality	of	a	human	being.
And	 I	 said	 that	 the	 personality	 of	 a	 man	 is	 not	 his	 ego,	 spirit,	 self,	 because	 the
personality	is	changing,	his	material	body	is	changing,	his	emotional	body	is	changing,
and	 his	 Nautical	 Body	 is	 changing,	 but	 the	 spirit,	 soul,	 ego,	 life	 is	 not	 changing,	 it's
everlasting,	being	in	eternity,	and	existing	from	time	to	time.	After	serious	research	of
the	 truth,	 one	 finds	 this	 great	 truth,	 it	 is	 entangling	 himself	 from	 the	 personality	 in
expression.	His	or	her	ego	is	taking	with	it	the	nature	of	the	personality,	which	is	life.
So	 our	 ego-self,	 creating	 a	 time	 and	 place	 personality,	 carries	 with	 him	 again	 that
selfhood	of	the	personality,	which	is	itself	leaving	behind	the	events	in	time	and	place,
but	 having	 in	 it	 the	 memory,	 the	 lessons	 and	 the	 experience,	 which	 means	 that	 the
spirit-soul-ego,	being	the	same	with	the	spirit-soul-ego	of	the	permanent	personality,	is
expressing	 itself	 in	 the	 time	 and	 place-space	 personality.	 The	 time	 and	 place-space
personality	 is	 continuously	 changing,	 storing	 in	 itself,	 which	 is	 the	 permanent
personality,	 all	 the	 experiences	 and	 the	 lessons	 received.	 Shall	 we	 say	 that	 the
permanent	personality	is	the	backbone	of	the	present-day	personality?	As	life.
So	 the	 selfhood	 even	 of	 the	 present-day	 personality,	 life,	 is	 the	 selfhood	 of	 the
permanent	 personality,	 and	 the	 selfhood	 of	 the	 spirit-soul-ego.	 We	 don't	 have	 three
selves,	one	self,	the	I-ness.	When	I	see	that	I-ness	in	the	place	and	time	personality,	or	if
I	see	it	in	the	permanent	personality,	or	in	the	spirit-soul-ego	personality,	it's	one	self.
I	 am	 I.	 That	 I-ness	 is	 immortal,	 whether	 it	 is	 in	 the	 present-day	 personality,	 in	 the
permanent	 personality,	 or	 in	 the	 spirit-soul-ego	 personality.	 So	 what	 is	 going	 to	 be
eternal	events	for	our	selfhood?	So	our	selfhood.	And	we	can	find	it	after	we	get	the
upper	hand	of	controlling	the	time	and	place-self	against	ourselves,	freeing	it	from	the
influences	of	time	and	place.

After	being	able	to	know	and	control	our	emotions,	after	being	able	now	to	use	the	mind
constructively,	and	not	slave	of	the	emotions	and	the	desires.	So	practicing	what	we	say
introspection,	meditation,	and	concentration,	which	is	the	self.	And	the	self	is	Mary	and
George,	until	it	disentangles	itself	from	the	so-called	egoistic	personality,	realizing	that
that's	not	the	self,	but	a	time	and	place	expression,	awkwardly	or	not.
So	 there	 is	 only	 one	 self.	 Now,	 Joshua	 the	 Christ	 said,	 the	 perishable	 should	 become
imperishable,	 and	 the	 ever-changing	 will	 become	 immortal.	 Now,	 looking	 at	 this
statement,	it	sounds	stupid.
This	quote	is	characterized	even	by	some	clergymen,	because	they	don't	understand	the
meaning	of	it.	The	perishable,	phenomenically,	but	imperishable	in	a	sense,	will	become
again	imperishable.	And	the	immortal,	your	changing,	will	become	immortal,	will	reach
to	the	self-realization.
It's	explained.	We	are	not	going	to	become	something	we	are	not.	So	we	say	Mary	and
Helen	and	George	and	Alexis	are	immortal.
Yes,	 as	 self	 and	 an	 I-ness,	 they	 are	 immortal.	 But	 as	 an	 expression,	 desires,	 way	 of
understanding,	way	of	living,	way	of	thinking,	they	are	not.	The	nature	of	everyone	of	us,
our	selfhood,	our	I-ness,	is	God.
Our	expressions	are	in	the	world's	only	existence.	And	of	course,	they	cannot	last	for	a
long	time.	So	everyone	should	find	his	immortal	self,	even	in	his	present	depersonality.
Many	 will	 say,	 how?	 By	 trying	 to	 get	 the	 control	 of	 your	 life	 as	 a	 phenomenon,	 by
controlling	 the	 sum	 total	 of	 your	 elementals	 composing	 the	 personality.	 Because	 the
quality	of	each	one's	personality	is	the	quality	of	the	elementals	composing	it.	So	our
personality	is	the	sum	total	of	the	elementals.
We	 create	 or	 re-energize	 using	 the	 mind.	 So,	 finding	 a	 self	 as	 our	 self,	 who	 now
expresses	 its	 divine	 nature,	 which	 is	 the	 will,	 and	 start	 now	 checking,	 trying	 to
understand	and	to	control	desires	and	emotions.	Start	to	study	the	nature	of	the	mind	as
a	super	substance	he	is	using,	either	to	serve	the	desires	and	the	emotions	or	use	it	to
control	emotions	and	desires.
In	the	course	of	time,	a	burning	question	mark	is	presented	in	itself.	Who	am	I	who	can
be?	Who	am	I	who	can	control	the	material	body?	Who	am	I	who	can	use	now	thought,
the	super	substance	of	the	mind,	and	expressing	my	will	and	decision?	I	can	change
everything.	So	one	finds	out	what	he	or	she	is.
I	didn't	say	who,	I	didn't	say	who,	I	said	what.	Because	we	will	find	that	it	isn't	he	or	she,
because	their	self	has	no	sex.