

Stylianos	Atteshlis	Daskalos	-	The	Etheric	Double	of	Our
Material	Body	1	-13	02	1990
Our	 Father	 who	 art	 in	 heaven,	 hallowed	 be	 thy	 name.	 Thy	 kingdom	 come,	 thy	 will	 be
done	on	earth	as	it	is	in	heaven.	Give	us	this	day	our	daily	bread,	and	forgive	us	our	sins,
as	we	forgive	those	who	sin	against	us.
And	lead	 us	not	 into	temptation,	 but	deliver	 us	from	 evil.	For	 thine	is	 the	kingdom	 and
the	 power	 and	 the	 glory	 forever.	 God	 of	 love,	 life	 and	 mercy,	 enlighten	 our	 minds	 to
understand	that	you	are	truth.
Clean	 our	 hearts	 to	 reflect	 your	 love	 towards	 you	 and	 towards	 our	 fellow	 men.	 Amen.
Today,	we	will	speak	more	about	the	so-called	etheric	double.
The	 etheric	 double	 of	 our	 material	 body.	 Of	 course,	 everything	 is	 mine.	 The	 etheric
double	is	mine.
Why	 do	 we	 say	 etheric	 double?	 Is	 the	 etheric	 double	 not	 a	 separate	 body	 from	 our
material	body?	No.	We	have	three	bodies	with	their	etheric	doubles.	The	material	body
with	its	etheric	double.
We	 have	 our	 psychic	 body	 with	 its	 etheric	 double.	 And	 our	 mind	 body,	 with	 its	 etheric
double	again.	This	etheric	double	is	the	link	between	the	bodies.
The	etheric	double	is	material.	Matter	is	not	always	visible.	The	air	is	not	visible.
Yet,	the	air	is	matter.	So,	in	the	etheric	double,	we	have	the	three	most	subtle	natures	of
matter.	We	have	seven	kinds	of	matter.
Before,	we	can	consider	them	tangible	and	solid.	The	other	three	is	the	etheric	double.
This	is	what	we	call	the	etheric	vitality.
So,	 the	 etheric	 double	 is	 matter	 substance.	 It's	 matter	 again.	 Because	 all	 the
materializations	are	done	by	the	etheric	vitality.
Materialization	 means	 becoming	 matter.	 And	 dematerialization	 means	 something	 solid,
material,	 to	 become	 energy.	 So,	 shall	 we	 say	 the	 three	 natures	 of	 matter	 substance	 is
the	etheric	double?	Exactly.
So,	the	etheric	double,	we	said,	is	the	mould	in	which	and	by	which,	as	it	is	mind,	as	it	is
etheric	 vitality,	 the	 material	 body	 is	 built	 and	 kept	 in	 good	 health.	 And	 kept	 in	 good
health	means	continuous	being	in	good	health.	That	nature	of	the	etheric	double,	we	call
it	creative	ether.
This	creative	ether,	that	kind	of	vitality,	is	under	the	authority	of	the	Holy	Spirit	and	the
Holy	 Archangels.	 The	 builders	 of	 the	 bodies,	 not	 only	 of	 the	 material	 body.	 So,	 the

builders	of	the	bodies,	the	material	body,	the	psychical	body,	and	the	neurotic	body,	are
working	through	the	etheric	doubles	of	the	bodies.
And	 extend	 their	 work	 in	 the	 bodies.	 So,	 we	 have	 the	 etheric	 double	 of	 our	 material
body.	 In	 form,	 the	 etheric	 double	 of	 our	 material	 body	 is	 exactly	 as	 it	 is	 the	 material
body.
Because	as	it	is	the	mould	in	which	the	material	body	is	built,	there	cannot	be	any	other
form.	 But	 what	 is	 the	 form	 of	 our	 material	 body?	 In	 time	 and	 in	 space,	 in	 occupying
space.	It	starts	from	spermatozoa,	pregnancy,	birth,	growing	and	growing	and	growing	in
time,	changing	completely	our	form,	the	shape	of	the	material	body.
The	 change	 is	 on	 the	 etheric	 double,	 and	 then	 it	 follows	 the	 change	 on	 the	 material
body.	How	is	the	etheric	double	composed	of?	We	said	etheric	vitality.	But	what	are	the
qualities	 of	 this	 etheric	 vitality?	 To	 make	 into	 form,	 what	 is	 behind	 the	 form?	 Which
means	the	law	in	existence.
We	said	our	etheric	double	is	the	mould	in	which	our	etheric	body	is	built.	How	it	is	built?
Each	 cell	 in	 the	 material	 body	 has	 its	 etheric	 double.	 Each	 blood	 cell	 has	 its	 etheric
double.
Each	 part	 and	 organ	 in	 the	 material	 body	 has	 its	 etheric	 double.	 And	 then	 the	 whole
body	 has	 its	 own	 etheric	 double,	 which	 is	 the	 collection	 of	 all	 those	 etheric	 doubles,
moulds,	 forms,	 creating	 each	 cell,	 each	 atom,	 each	 organ	 in	 the	 material	 body.	 So	 just
imagine	what	work	is	done	for	the	building	of	a	material	body.
The	 holy	 archangels,	 workers	 in	 the	 bodies,	 are	 working	 with	 their	 archangelic	 super-
consciousness.	 Super-consciousness	 means	 at	 the	 same	 time	 in	 many	 points	 and	 in
many	kinds	of	work.	All	the	archangels,	the	Michael,	the	Gabriel,	the	Raphael,	the	Uriel,
the	Cherubs,	the	Cherubs,	under	the	supervision	of	God,	the	Absolute	Beingness,	as	the
Holy	Spirit.
So	our	material	body	and	all	the	other	bodies	are	more	holy	spiritual,	what	happens	to
the	 personality	 then?	 Are	 we	 not	 holy	 spiritual?	 The	 material	 bodies	 are	 holy	 spiritual,
and	 holy	 spiritual,	 but	 mainly	 we	 are	 logoic.	 That's	 why	 we	 are	 very	 different	 from	 our
material	bodies.	Our	material	bodies	are	not	ourselves.
The	material	body	has	a	sub-consciousness	and	a	consciousness	of	its	own,	completely
independent	  from	  our	  sub-consciousness.	  Consciousness	  and	  more	  our	  self-
consciousness.	The	material	bodies	are	not	self-conscious.
They	 obey	 the	 workers	 and	 the	 Holy	 Spirit.	 The	 Holy	 Spirit	 is	 the	 material	 body	 and	 its
etheric	double,	under	our	command.	Our	command,	that	means	us.
Self-consciousnesses,	 for	 the	 time	 being,	 no.	 The	 material	 bodies	 and	 the	 etheric

doubles,	very	little	known	to	our	present	day	personality,	are	not	under	the	command	of
the	present	day	personality	of	a	man.	Definitely	they	are	not.
Will	some	time	be	under	the	command	of	the	present	day	personality?	Yes.	If	the	present
day	 personality	 would	 change	 its	 self	 now	 in	 time	 and	 space,	 and	 from	 egoism	 finds
herself	as	the	sole	self-consciousness,	yes.	The	bodies	would	be	under	the	command	of
the	entity	or	the	present	day	personality	living	in	those	bodies.
We	are	living	in	those	bodies,	yet	we	are	not	our	bodies,	and	the	common	man	is	not	in
command	of	these	bodies	or	knows	anything	about	them.	Even	orthodox	aliens	now	start
knowing	something	of	the	functioning	of	the	etheric	doubles	in	the	material	bodies.	Even
scientists	 today,	 doctors	 of	 medicine,	 do	 not	 know	 about	 the	 existence	 of	 the	 etheric
double.
They	 say,	 yes,	 energy,	 but	 what	 is	 energy?	 Far	 from	 comes	 the	 energy.	 And	 I	 had	 a
doctor	of	medicine,	an	Englishman,	who	taught	me.	He	says,	of	course,	sir,	the	material
body	creates	that	what	you	call	etheric	double,	which	energy,	the	brains	create	thought,
I	said,	what	is	it?	The	material	brains	create	thought,	and	the	liver,	he	says,	secretes	bile.
I	said,	yes,	of	course	you	know.	No.	They	still	have	to	learn	more	and	more	yet.
So,	we	know	that	our	etheric	doubles	are	the	morphs	in	which	and	by	which	the	bodies,
the	material	body,	the	so-called	psychological	body	and	the	neurotic	body,	are	built	and
kept	in	good	order	and	are	going	on	growing	and	living.	So,	the	life	of	the	material	body
depends	 on	 its	 etheric	 double.	 And	 if	 the	 etheric	 double	 withdraws	 from	 the	 material
body,	 the	 material	 body	 tends	 to	 decay,	 to	 dissolve	 itself,	 not	 to	 die,	 because	 they	 are
not	subjecting	us	to	death,	but	constant	change.
So,	 when	 one	 is	 living	 the	 material	 body,	 every	 night	 everybody	 is	 living	 the	 material
body,	in	what	we	call	unconscious	exosomatosis.	And	others	are	living	the	material	body,
in	 what	 we	 call	 conscious,	 a	 little	 self-conscious	 exosomatosis.	 Do	 they	 take	 with	 them
the	etheric	double?	No.
The	etheric	double	cannot	leave	the	material	body	for	a	single	moment,	because	when
the	etheric	double	leaves	the	material	body,	the	material	body	tends	to	dissolve	itself,	to
decay.	What	do	we	take	then	with	us	in	exosomatosis?	We	are	with	our	psychical	body
and	its	etheric	double,	the	neurotic	body	and	its	etheric	double,	in	exosomatosis,	living	in
what	 we	 call	 the	 sub-planes	 of	 the	 psychical	 world.	 And	 of	 course	 later	 we	 can	 leave
behind	even	the	psychical	body,	and	be	only	with	our	neurotic	body,	our	mind	body,	in
the	neurotic	world.
Living	 the	 same	 way	 as	 we	 live	 the	 material	 body,	 lying	 in	 bed,	 sleeping,	 to	 leave	 our
psychical	 bodies.	 So,	 the	 material	 body,	 during	 what	 we	 call	 sleep,	 sleeping,	 or	 in
exosomatosis,	 conscious	 exosomatosis,	 is	 lying	 in	 the	 bed,	 on	 rest,	 and	 the	 etheric

double	 in	 it,	 working.	 When	 we	 are	 out	 of	 our	 material	 body,	 in	 a	 phenomenal
nothingness,	or	annihilation,	the	body	is	living,	we	are	breathing,	the	heart	is	beating.
The	 parts	 of	 life	 are	 in	 the	 material	 body,	 because	 in	 it	 is	 the	 etheric	 double.	 So,	 the
etheric	 double,	 as	 a	 whole,	 as	 a	 form,	 never	 leaves	 the	 material	 body,	 especially	 in	 its
nature	 as	 the	 creative	 it	 has.	 But	 we	 said	 that	 the	 etheric	 double	 has	 other	 qualities,
besides	the	creativeness	of	the	material	body.
And	we	know	it	as	kinetic	ether,	aesthetic	or	feeling-giving	ether,	and	imprinting	ether.
And	we	have	explained	each	nature	of	this	functioning	of	the	etheric	double,	which	is	the
proof	that	really	we	are	not	mistaken.	And	we	know	these	things	to	be	real,	because	we
can	use	them,	make	use	of	them,	and	be	sure	of	their	nature	and	existence.
Otherwise,	we	simply	can't	be	sure	of	the	existence	of	something,	we	cannot	prove	it	is
real.	Using	the	imprinting	ether,	in	visualization	and	in	making	what	we	call	elementals,
projecting	 elementals,	 and	 studying	 their	 nature,	 their	 strength,	 the	 existence	 of	 them,
we	shouldn't	be	sure	that	they	exist.	And	if	we	are	not	doing	conscious,	at	the	beginning
subconscious,	use	of	them	we	are	making.
But	 we	 should	 make	 conscious	 use	 of	 these	 qualities	 of	 our	 etheric	 double,	 so	 that	 we
will	make	use	of	it	later	as	self-conscious	use.	Then	we	are	absolutely	sure.	But	even	by
making	conscious	use	of	these	qualities	of	our	etheric	double,	we	are	sure.
So	we	will,	by	certain	exercises,	get	the	skill	and	get	the	habit	of	making	daily,	not	daily,
every	 moment,	 conscious	 use	 of	 these	 qualities	 of	 our	 etheric	 double,	 which	 we	 call
kinetic	ether,	aesthetic	ether,	feeling-giving	ether,	and	the	imprinting	ether.	Do	we	make
conscious	 use	 of	 the	 imprinting	 ether?	 Building	 consciously	 what	 we	 call	 elementals?
Most	  people	  don't.	  They	  are	  building	  elementals	  subconsciously,	  not	  to	  say
unconsciously,	  without	  distinction	  of	  consciousness,	  creating	  what	  we	  call	  evil
elementals.
So,	 subconsciously,	 everyone	 is	 creating,	 projecting	 these	 kinds	 of	 elementals,	 without
seeing	them,	knowing	them,	yet	under	their	influence	all	the	time.	And	because	they	are
not	 seen	 to	 the	 common	 people,	 these	 elementals,	 this	 is	 what	 renders	 them	 more
dangerous,	because	they	cannot	trace	them.	They	are	under	their	influence,	but	they	are
not	in	a	state	of	checking	them.
I	mean	the	common	man.	Projecting,	creating	what	we	call	elementals,	as	Christ	taught
them,	 meaningless,	 empty,	 and	 reading	 the	 Bible,	 the	 New	 Testament,	 we	 see	 what
these	 elementals	 were	 doing.	 In	 a	 case,	 a	 man	 possessed	 by	 a	 collective	 elemental,
calling	itself	legion,	was	throwing	the	man	on	the	street	with	an	epileptic	fit.
We	find	these	things	in	the	New	Testament.	We	find	them	even	now	in	the	society.	And	a
psychotherapist,	 a	 psychiatrist,	 should	 know	 the	 nature	 of	 these	 elementals	 definitely

before	being	in	a	state	to	make	just	a	good	therapy	on	certain	people.
Unless	he	knows	the	nature	of	these	elementals,	never	mind	that	he	cannot	see	them,
he	is	not	a	clairvoyant,	yet	he	should	know	the	nature	of	them,	just	to	deal	with	them,	to
make	 a	 serious,	 what	 I	 call,	 psychoanalysis.	 That's	 why	 most	 of	 the	 psychiatrists	 and
psychotherapists	are	not	successful	in	their	work,	because	they	are	working	blindly.	They
don't	know	what	these	elementals	are.
But,	 do	 they	 know	 them?	 In	 them,	 so	 that	 they	 will	 recognize	 them	 and	 know	 them.	 In
the	 others?	 So	 every	 psychiatrist	 and	 psychotherapist	 should	 know	 the	 nature	 of	 these
elementals,	 composing	 his	 own	 present-day	 personality.	 If	 he	 cannot	 control	 these
elementals	 in	 him,	 how	 he	 will	 be	 able	 to	 control	 elementals	 in	 a	 patient?	 But	 is	 it
possible	not	to	do	good	work	before	becoming	clairvoyant?	That	means	seeing.
Of	 course,	 that's	 not	 necessary.	 To	 know	 the	 nature	 of	 these	 elementals	 by	 their
behavior	is	not	necessary	to	be	a	psychotherapist,	a	clairvoyant.	Though,	if	he	develops
clairvoyancy	in	him,	that's	much,	much	better.
He	 knows	 what	 he	 is	 doing	 now,	 and	 he	 can	 deal	 with	 them	 with	 authority,	 ordering
them,	 seeing	 them,	 tracing	 them.	 He	 can	 just	 control	 them.	 Christ	 is	 controlling	 them,
ordering	them,	seeing	them.
So,	clairvoyance	is	most	desired.	And	a	researcher,	after	the	truth,	or	a	psychotherapist,
or	 a	 psychiatrist,	 to	 have	 it,	 it	 will	 be	 for	 him	 a	 blessing.	 But,	 even	 before	 that,	 he	 can
know	their	nature	by	knowing	their	nature	in	himself,	studying	them.
They	 know	 the	 nature	 of	 these	 elementals	 in	 the	 patients.	 So,	 we	 have	 spoken	 about
these	elementals,	and	we	will	speak	much,	much	more	in	the	future,	because	this	is	not
a	subject	to	be	exhausted.	It's	an	exhaustible	subject,	the	subject	of	the	elementals,	of
describing	these	elementals.
It	is	as	difficult	as	to	describe	the	personalities	of	human	beings,	as	these	elementals	are
composing	of	the	present-day	personality	of	a	human	being.	But	even	so,	we	can	classify
them	and	study	them.	So,	how	are	the	elementals	created	and	projected?	Since	we	said
that	 the	 etheric	 double	 can	 never	 leave	 the	 material	 body,	 and	 that	 material	 body
leaves,	 how	 are	 these	 elementals	 created	 and	 projected?	 By	 the	 etheric	 double,	 of
course.
The	 whole	 etheric	 double	 composing	 the	 whole	 material	 body	 and	 the	 organs	 in	 the
material	body	as	created	ether	cannot	leave	the	body.	some	of	its	substance,	let	us	call
it	 so,	 is	 the	 stuff	 by	 which	 these	 elementals	 are	 born	 and	 projected.	 And	 it	 is	 in	 the
etheric	double.
So,	 part	 of	 the	 etheric	 double	 is	 the	 birthplace	 of	 the	 elementals.	 And	 especially	 in	 the
center	of	energy,	in	the	root	of	the	nose,	between	the	two	eyes.	In	this	center	of	energy,

the	Hindus	call	it	chakras.
But	 why	 should	 we	 use	 Hindu	 names?	 We	 call	 it	 centers	 of	 energy.	 How	 are	 these
centers	 assembled?	 Like	 discs	 rotating,	 moving	 around.	 The	 speed	 they	 are	 turning	 is
giving	them	the	quality	and,	of	course,	the	ability	of	the	present-day	personality	to	use
them.
So,	the	speed	they	are	moving	is	not	the	same	in	all	human	beings.	It	seems	that	every
one	of	these	centers	of	vitality,	of	energy,	coincides	with	an	organ	in	the	material	body.
So,	it	has	two	qualities.
The	energizing	and	keeping	good	life	that	organ	and	also	serving	in	the	economy	of	the
whole	etheric	double.	Of	course,	a	clairvoyant	can	just	see	and	distinguish	this	work	of
the	etheric	centers.	Now,	how	many	are	these	etheric	centers?	Hundreds.
But,	 no	 need	 to	 know	 them	 all.	 The	 fingerprint	 is	 the	 result	 of	 the	 rotation	 of	 these
centers.	 So,	 we	 have	 in	 every	 tip,	 of	 every	 finger	 in	 the	 hands	 and	 in	 the	 feet	 one	 of
these	centers.
Little,	very	little	discs	moving,	creating	the	fingerprints.	We	have	in	the	palms,	we	have
in	 the	 ankles,	 on	 the	 toes,	 on	 the	 knees.	 These	 are	 of	 not	 much	 importance	 to	 the
common	man	or	even	to	these	psychotherapists.
What	are	the	main	centers?	Bigger	discs.	The	one	is	at	the	base	of	the	spine	and	this	is
under	 the	 orders	 directly	 of	 Raphael	 and	 Gabriel.	 In	 your	 testament,	 it's	 mentioned	 as
the	sword	of	Michael	moving	around	the	center	of	fire.
We	call	it	the	sacred	fire.	That's	at	the	base	of	the	spine.	The	disc	behind	the	body.
Yet,	radiations	towards	the	genitals.	The	functioning	of	this	center	on	the	material	body
is	 just	 energizing	 the	 genitals.	 Another	 center	 is	 in	 the	 belly	 and	 we	 call	 it	 the	 solar
plexus.
When	 a	 glaboyant	 sees	 that	 center,	 it	 is	 a	 radiating	 sun	 of	 various	 colors.	 But	 the
development	 of	 the	 present-day	 personality	 is	 giving,	 in	 reality,	 the	 real	 colors	 of	 the
solar	 plexus.	 When	 that	 solar	 plexus	 is	 only	 under	 the	 dominion	 of	 Raphael,	 it's	 violet
color.
Of	Michael,	red	color.	Of	Gabriel,	bluish	color.	Or	combination	of	these	colors.
But	 all	 the	 time	 radiating	 like	 a	 sun.	 That's	 why	 they	 call	 it,	 the	 mystics,	 solar	 plexus.
What's	the	material?	Organs	coinciding	with	this	center.
All	the	glands	joined	with	nerves	in	them	and	around	them	is	that	glow	and	behind	them
the	 disc	 rotating.	 I	 have	 never	 seen	 in	 two	 men	 the	 same	 colors	 of	 their	 solar	 plexus
myself.	But	these	colors	are	giving	the	good	health	in	the	material	body.

You	see	radiating	from	these	discs	no	matter	what's	the	color,	you	see	usually	a	greenish
emerald	color	which	means	good	health	in	the	body.	This	solar	plexus	is	under	the	orders
of	 Gabriel	 who	 set	 this	 sacred	 fire	 the	 Hindus	 call	 it	 Kundalini	 is	 a	 red	 or	 deep	 violet
under	the	orders	of	Raphael	and	or	Michael.	But	the	solar	plexus	of	course	is	under	the
orders	of	all	the	archangels	but	dominates	there	the	archangel	Gabriel.
So	 I	 have	 another	 of	 not	 much	 importance	 center	 of	 energy	 the	 place	 of	 the	 liver.	 The
color	 depends	 on	 the	 health	 of	 the	 body.	 There	 are	 dominants	 sometimes	 Gabriel
sometimes	Michael	sometimes	Raphael.
Three	 of	 them	 are	 working	 yet	 from	 time	 to	 time	 we	 see	 one	 of	 these	 archangels
dominating	in	its	core	the	liver	is	the	workshop	of	the	blood.	It	is	the	combined	work	of
the	 archangels	 to	 give	 the	 human	 body	 red	 warm	 blood.	 So	 this	 center	 is	 of	 much
importance.
Another	center	of	energy	have	it	on	the	spleen.	Again	the	same	archangels	are	working
and	dominating	from	time	to	time.	This	also	is	center	of	cleaning	the	blood.
So	these	two	centers	are	for	the	blood	and	the	human	body.	I	have	another	center	now
the	most	important	center	for	us	human	beings.	This	is	the	center	on	the	heart.
This	center	on	the	heart	is	supervised	by	the	absolute	beingness	as	the	locus.	There	we
are	  expressing	  ourselves	  as	  spirits.	  Ego	  self-consciousnesses	  and	  soul	  self-
consciousnesses	through	the	heart.
Who	are	the	archangels	working	there?	All	of	them.	And	the	Holy	Spirit	but	mainly	it	is
the	locus.	Christ	in	one	uses	his	heart	to	express	love.
To	give	his	heart	to	the	Lord	of	love	that	means	to	the	locus.	But	unfortunately	there	are
certain	elementals	there	of	egoism	we	might	call	them	devils	distorting	love	into	hatred
because	hatred	is	distorted	love.	You	hate	somebody	because	that	somebody	either	you
loved	him	or	you	still	love	him	and	not	satisfying	your	egoism	because	if	that	is	not	so
why	not	forget	him?	Why	hate	him?	And	some	call	hatred	wounded	love.
So	about	this	center	in	the	heart	we	will	speak	more	because	that	concerns	our	present
day	 personality.	 Our	 present	 day	 personality	 is	 resented	 by	 the	 heart.	 And	 God	 Christ
says	in	the	New	Testament	Blessed	are	the	pure	in	heart	for	they	shall	see	God.
Through	the	heart	we	will	see	God.	Or	the	infinite	beingness.	So	for	us	human	beings	the
heart	is	the	most	sacred	center	conserving	us.
Another	 two	 centers	 are	 under	 our	 arms	 in	 these	 cavities.	 For	 them	 very	 little	 can	 be
mentioned.	Ancient	Greeks	were	using	the	cartidges	that	means	two	snakes	in	a	pole.
The	 heads	 of	 these	 snakes	 coincide	 with	 these	 cavities	 under	 the	 arms.	 I'm	 afraid	 I

cannot	speak	more	about	these	centers.	And	how	the	serpent	of	Moses	that	lives	in	the
spinal	cord	has	to	devour	them	the	two	snakes	of	the	Egyptians.
The	 Old	 Testament	 is	 symbolic.	 So	 another	 center	 is	 the	 thyroid.	 It's	 a	 small	 center	 of
course.
This	 thyroid	 resembles	 a	 ball	 of	 tennis.	 Yet	 inside	 this	 ball	 of	 tennis	 rotates	 a	 disc.	 Its
color	is	orange.
This	center	is	the	purification	of	the	blood.	The	liver	is	for	the	blood.	The	spleen	is	doing
much	work	to	give	to	the	blood	certain	qualities.
But	the	purification	of	the	blood	means	killing	of	the	microbes.	And	the	germs	is	in	the
thyroid.	So	the	thyroid	is	so	much	important.
The	orthodox	scientists	now	know	that	the	whole	blood	passes	through	the	thyroid	every
13	minutes.	Others	say	14.	Others	say	11.
It	doesn't	matter.	Maybe	it's	not	the	same	for	persons.	Why?	There	the	functioning	of	the
thyroid	is	to	kill	microbes	and	germs.
Another	center	 of	importance	 is	at	 the	root	 of	 the	nose.	 And	one	 over	the	 head.	 These
centers	are	to	give	the	present-day	personality.
I	 would	 say	 clairvoyance.	 Seeing	 anything	 in	 distance	 and	 even	 in	 time	 in	 the	 past.
Because	these	also	are	qualities	one	should	have	to	develop.
It's	not	only	the	opening	of	the	center.	Enough.	One	has	to	work	and	develop	this	skill.
The	center	above	the	head.	It	is	just	to	be	able	to	have	conscious	exosomatosis.	Unless
one	 opens	 this	 center	 he	 cannot	 have	 conscious	 exosomatosis	 and	 in	 coming	 back	 to
bring	the	memory	of	his	experiences	in	the	psychical	plane.
So,	 is	 that	 the	 only	 center	 of	 exosomatosis?	 Or	 waking	 us	 up	 in	 what	 you	 call	 the
psychical	 plane?	 No.	 Concentration	 and	 meditation	 in	 the	 solar	 plexus	 can	 give	 you	 a
kind	 of	 subconscious	 exosomatosis	 but	 one	 should	 be	 very,	 very	 careful.	 Unless	 his
present	 personality	 vibrates	 the	 right	 way	 that	 may	 be	 the	 door	 and	 the	 gate	 towards
the	hell	and	the	man	will	face	nightmares.
So	 one	 should	 be	 very,	 very	 careful	 before	 opening	 the	 gates.	 There	 is	 another	 fear	 of
other	elementals	or	even	what	we	call	evil	spirits	to	get	control	of	that	center.	Then	we
call	that	obsession.
When	an	elemental	is	obsessing	a	man	that	elemental	possesses	even	the	human	mind,
the	human	brains.	And	we	call	these	fixed	ideas.	Now,	possession.

Certain	 entities	 of	 departed	 ones	 who	 are	 not	 considered	 to	 be	 beneficial	 to	 humanity
and	 good	 are	 banished	 to	 the	 moon.	 For	 certain	 periods	 the	 etheric	 or	 rather	 the
psychical	 counterpart	 of	 the	 moon	 and	 the	 earth	 approach	 and	 touch.	 And	 these
banished	spirits	can	come	back	to	the	earth	but	cannot	stay	there	on	the	atmosphere	of
the	earth	for	long	because	they	have	to	go	back.
They	 are	 thrown	 back	 to	 the	 moon.	 But	 during	 those	 periods	 they	 can	 get	 entrance
through	the	chakras,	solar	plexus,	liver	and	spleen	wristly	chakras.	They	gain	entrance	in
the	body	and	in	that	personality.
What	will	be	the	result?	Feet	of	epilepsy.	You	see	these	people	throwing	themselves	on
the	ground	and	just	having	spasms.	When	it	happens	that	you	find	somebody	there	on
the	ground	what	you	do	simply	touch	with	your	fingers	the	place	of	the	spleen	or	of	the
liver.
Your	magnetism	will	force	it	depart	and	go.	No	need	to	push	there	but	touch	with	your
fingers.