01 - Mind In The Worlds Of Existence

Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifest in yourself, in your total wisdom, in your almightiness, in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen.

Living and thinking, being able to think, is a proof of the existence of God. I repeat it: living and being able to think is a proof of the existence of God, because it gives meaning to what we call life. Why? We see phenomena of life all around us in the cross-material world. Of course, studying all these phenomena of life, of the vegetable kingdom, of the animal kingdom, we can see, trace, and find the total wisdom behind every phenomenon of life.

You see harmony. Nothing is beyond the ability of an intelligence concerning that kind of life. You see many things in one kind of life, and you see in all things the total wisdom concerning that life. Therefore, we can think and reason. Seeing life all around us, we see that all those phenomena are living. Are they thinking? Are the dogs thinking? Are the cows thinking? Using the mind as thought? No, of course not.

They express instinct—a feeling of continuing existing. We see what we call instinct. But instinct is not thinking directly by the one expressing it. Animals express instinct, but instinct is not reasonable thought. There is in it the wisdom, the total wisdom of the Almighty and the intelligences creating those phenomena of life, living in which way? By creating angels to control them. But who is behind the angels? The archangels.

So we see the total wisdom of the phenomena of life all around us in the cross-material world. But these phenomena of life are not expressing thought as we call thinking. Some say instinct is a kind of thinking. No, it isn't. Maybe it is the thinking of the intelligences behind the phenomena of life, of the archangels. Let's go into that.

The archangels can think, are thinking, are manifesting a self. Now we have to see the relationship between thinking, using the mind, in a special way, with the self. Yes, we see that the self—the holy archangels—are expressing an archangelic self. Human beings express a human self. But there is still a self common to all, which is the absolute selfhood, proving to us not only the existence of God but the beingness of God.

So what is God for us now? We see God from a different point of view than we saw in previous lessons. See it in a more practical way. God is the absolute, infinite selfhood in its omnipresence. There is no place where we don't see the total wisdom, which is the expression of the divine selfhood. But who can do that? The cows? The dogs? The sheep? No, of course not. But a human being can do it.

Why? This is the proof that a human being, having and expressing a self, is God-like. He has his divine being self, expressing it as a phenomenon of life. Through the phenomenon of life we call a human being, we see the divinity—the right use of the mind in thinking. Now we are using the God-mind. We said in previous lessons that the absolute, infinite beingness, the mind is. But it is not existing in manifestation. It is the nature of the absolute, infinite beingness.

To feel is self-sufficiency. Now we see the mind in a different mode of beingness, not of existence. We have to understand the two different things: being and existing. The mind is unmanifested in the absolute, infinite beingness. Yet it is there as the total wisdom and the almightiness, inwardly manifesting in itself, not yet existing. The mind is of much, much importance in the world of beingness and in the world of existence.

We cannot understand what the mind is unless we study the mind in its lowest manifestations in the cross-material world. The lesson today is to understand the mind in the world of existence. Manifested. Who is manifesting the mind? It is the nature of whom this mind, as we call it, is the mind’s super-substance. What is the super-substance? We cannot know exactly, since it is formless. It is motion—motion without anything moving.

How can you trace motion if you don’t have something moving to see? You see the thing moving. Can you see motion causing the movement? It needs much thinking to understand that seeing something moving means there must be motion in it or using it to move. Can you connect now the mind, super-substance, and all these manifestations with movement? Definitely. Unless you see something moving, how can you understand what is mind? What is thought? Movement in time. Unless you have movement in time, how can you have a thought?

That is a little difficult to understand, but that is the reality. So now, we connect the mind to what we call movement, motion. It is the same thing. Then we see the mind in the manifested world. Everything that exists is mind. Now we can understand what is super-substance. From that super-substance, unconceivable, comes what is manifested, seen. It is creating something.

We said in previous lessons that all the universes have been created by the holy archangels, the holy intelligences, those selfhoods in the lokoic selfhood, using the mind. This mind super-substance emanates from the absolute infinite beingness and divineness, and the holy archangels as a result of the willful pleasure to manifest themselves. Where? In themselves. Because they are omnipresent, as is the absolute infinite beingness.

More—it is not easy to understand the real nature of all these things. Just using a handful of earth, our material brains. But of course, we can know much more when we reach that state of our existing self, the time and place self, awakened in the higher realms, not in need of using the material brains, but using directly the mind.

But then, we are not common human beings. We are solely ourselves. Still human, but on a higher level, away from the ground, the soil, the earth, the clay—call it what you like. So shall we say now that the material body and the material brains, that handful of earth in our skull, is barring out the reality from us? Keeping us in ignorance? Definitely.

This is what creates human consciousness, no matter how developed it is, to have the illusion of separateness. But in reality, we cannot get out of life. We are in the oneness of the locus of the absolute infinite beingness. Yet, being in a material body, we have the feeling that we are something separate—not the absolute infinite beingness. That’s an illusion.

We can understand what is life by studying the phenomena of life around us. That phenomena of life we call our time and place self. By using the mind now, individually, we can study the cross-material body. God the Father granted us the authority and the right to use the material mind, even separated from its oneness.

He was our daily bread. Now, that we have the right to use the mind, the proof is that we are using it as thought. We can use the mind as emotions, as desires. Still, we are using the mind as super-substance and substance. But we can’t use the mind as ether yet.

The mind as ether becomes energy, power. Power already manifested because the mind is power. But now we see manifested that power and cross matter. The cross matter is the mind solid. But what do we mean by solid? In reality, nothing is solid. X-rays pass through your body—so how is it solid?

We call something solid because we understand it by touching it with something vibrating at the same rate. Our hands are vibrating at the rate of the things we touch. That is why it feels solid. Touching it. What is solid in the cross-material world also gives etheric feelings—cold, hot, other kinds of feelings.

We have a material body. Our etheric double and psychical body mirror the same form. In the psychical plane, we don’t feel cold or hot the same way. But we have feelings there that mean pleasure or displeasure.

The same applies to the so-called noetical world. If I am out of my material body—self-consciously—I can see all of you, not your material bodies but your psychical bodies. In exosomatosis, one finds the cross-material world easy to approach but feels it is not their world to stay.

They must learn to lower their vibrations to remain here. This is the difficulty the “dead” face returning to the material world. They can see their beloved ones but cannot stay. The angels often help them not see their own dead material bodies to avoid trauma.

The psychical world is solid for them. The material world is not solid for them—they can pass through it. Solid is a relative experience. For the exosomatic person, the psychical body is real and solid.