01 - Labyrinth

Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifest in yourself, in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, our love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen. I welcome you to Cyprus.

Maybe the most interesting thing for a human being is to understand what is life. We are living as human beings. But if somebody will ask you, what is life? Can you answer? What can life be? And even if I tell you life, life is God. Again, what will you understand? What is God? What's life? Now, we are using words in all the languages without really understanding what is, or what might be the meaning in this word. What is God? What is life? What is love? All these are synonyms. Now, by using our mind, of course, the sympathetic mind, making it our own, by using it properly, by concentrating and observing things, we can come out of this labyrinth, out of this maze of ignorance.

You say, but why should there be ignorance? Of course, this is something in human nature. But what is most encouraging is that by using the mind consciously, we can come out of this maze, and we can say that we know. But doing that, subconsciously, we are expressing a self. Who knows? Who can concentrate? Who can meditate? Who can use the mind? Then we come to another point. What is the mind? What are these means I am using to know? Then again, to know what? It's something that needs much study. What can I know? What is everything around me? This I can know. But who am I? Who can know this or that thing? So meditation starts from the very beginning, and everybody can do it if he or she is willing to do it. So there is not any mystery, a secret way. What we need is to exercise our divine nature of observation, concentration, willpower, and come out of ignorance.

Willpower. What is willpower? Again, what do we find out after observation and meditation? That we have, and we can get, what we call knowledge, partly, and then continuing, more accurate, I would say. At the beginning, we don't get things accurately, and we need to concentrate. You say, why? Why can we not get things from the very beginning accurately, correctly? Because human nature is to be in a hurry, to get to conclusions. So we have to overcome this weakness of our human nature. And of course, an instructor will tell you, think slowly. Don't jump, don't rush. Concentrate. Now it comes to the point that you use your divine nature of observation. By observation, looking out, you can learn everything. Looking within, you can learn what you are, to make your study on your own self. So all these things will happen, it means we are living, and that can be life.

Now, it came to a point. What's life? We can study life all around us. I'm telling you, everything is life, and everything is living. There is no such thing as death, because if death existed or exists, it means that God cannot be mortal and everlasting. So what we call death is change. There is no annihilation of our so-called self-consciousness. Now we come to another point. What is it to be conscious? In life, it needs much concentration and observation. Be conscious of something, of the existence of something, and subconsciously to know that I am what I am, who I'm able to know. So it needs much, much attention, concentration, and our divine nature of observing. But now again, what's observation? We shall see not from the outside things, but from the inner meaning and power of it. To observe is our divine nature, and it is what we call the nature of our selfhood.

What's selfhood now? You say self-consciousness? Ah, no. Self-consciousness expresses the selfhood, but selfhood is common. What we call selfhood is the nature of absolute infinite beingness, a comprehensible way of selfhood. For us, limited now in a personality, then we have it in expression, what are called the locus selfhood, which is common. What are the characteristics of this locus selfhood, which is our nature, and we must find it out by using the mind? What is this? Locus selfhood.

Now, we should try just to see the meaning, think the words. Somebody will say, the total wisdom. Definitely, it is the nature of selfhood. The almightiness. Of course, it is. What is more important is love. Now, what is love? We are using the words every day, but what do these words mean to us? And how can we study this, the nature which is behind all these words? What is love in matter, the material world? You say, God is love, and love is everywhere, either not manifested or manifested love.

Now, let us come to orthodox science, what people find out, the scientists. We ask a fellow, what is cohesion? What can he tell me? Unless there is this love, cohesion—is that not what you call it?—matter would not exist. Attraction. What is attraction? What is this force, this great power? We can detect by observation and meditation, studying things in the cross-material world or around us. Nobody can deny, no scientist can deny the law of cohesion or attraction. We see two things or more things attracted and uniting, and we call that cohesion. But what is that? Why does that exist? I think we are in very deep waters. It is difficult to enter into it unless we learn introspection, observation properly, and how to use the mind.

Where do we come in conclusion? Let us call it the will of God, more easy expressions. But now what is God? Don't try to imagine God, something beyond our comprehension and our daily life. It is everywhere. You must understand what is God. When I was giving this lesson to some persons in their time, a fellow who happened to be a dignitary of the church said, but you minimize God now. Minimize God? And can you see God better in your imagination? And can everybody have the same kind of imagining God? Why should we not find him, find it rather, in everything? How will we minimize its most divine majesty? Because you will understand this great force, power—let us call it almightiness—even in the smallest things, in the cohesion, in the formation of an atom.

Because you can see the almightiness, the total wisdom of beingness in the smallest and in the biggest thing. It is the same in an atom and in the galaxy. So we don't minimize God in studying an atom. This is what orthodox scientists are doing now. They say, seeing an atom, they can see a solar system, nucleus, neutrons, so many things behaving in the same way that all planets and all heavenly bodies are behaving in a solar system. There are many solar systems in our galaxy. Happily now, astronomy is a good science to make people find God as love and manifestation, manifestation in himself. Let us see things imagining using the mind and the proportions. Again, what orthodox science knows today—sizes in space.

The Earth, our planet, is not more than a small little marble. The children are playing now, according to the comparison we'll make. And the Sun, a mass as big as this house, maybe bigger. One million times the Sun is bigger than the planet Earth. There are other planets in our solar system. What studying can I observe? Motion, movement, the circular motion, around the center. And we know that our planet Earth is very, very big for us. Just comparing it to other heavenly bodies, it's just like a little marble compared to a mass like this house. And we see it accurately, moving around its axis every 24 hours. And according to its position, going around the Sun, turning to one side or the other side, it gives us every year, from old times until now, the same phenomena, winter, spring, summer.

This day, last year, or 20 years, 50 years, 100 years ago, the Sun was rising at the same time. And you have shorter days and longer nights, and longer nights and shorter days according to the season. And one can study all these things and know which is this mind behind it. And within the rotation of the Earth around its axis, let us take the Earth, that little marble-like thing, going around the Sun. Just make your imagination, have a marble. And the distance between the Sun and the planet is, say, 15 kilometers. Just moving around its axis, and accurately in a year's time, it will make its movement around the Sun. Put your mind on that distance and the size of the masses, the Sun, the Earth. Who is holding this marble-like mass, which we are calling Earth and we are living on it, moving around the Sun and around its axis without changing? Only fools and people who cannot use their mind are denying this all-mightiness and the total wisdom of what? Of course, we say God. But again, I am telling you, what is God? Is it a human being? Not only a human being. Then we come again to our question, what is life? Now, you have to think deeply.

I don't want the characteristics of life now. We'll study them later. What is life? Because unless we understand what is life, we cannot understand what is God. What can life be? The beingness incomprehensible, but it should be so that things will exist in it. What is life? Is that space? And space, not only space. Of course, it needs much introspection, observation, and meditation just to understand a little about creation. Yes, Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ, the God-man, the most perfect expression of the Locust, had manifested all that in the Sefer HaTzirakh, the study on the creation given by him to the Essenes. Of course, the Jews, the Hebrews, the old Egyptians, and many knew something revealed to them by the holy archangels. But was the human brain able to grasp the truth about all this creative work of the archangels and of the Locusts and of the beingness?

Now we come to study the words, the archangels. What are the archangels? We are using words, but we must understand what are the archangels. We should go step by step studying the phenomena and the causes behind the phenomena. Of course, when we say to a fellow an archangel, the human being and the human mind or brains understand something known to them according to their nature, not beyond that. This is the human nature, to try to bring everything into its measures, which is the mistake. We should not decree truths, try to bring them to the measures of a human brain, but we should expand beyond that to understand the truth, beyond the limitations of what I call human understanding. Because we have to decide from the very beginning, starting to study and learn all these things, we should remove the barriers from us of the limited way of common human understanding.

When I say the archangels, they think that's one Michael, and they think that Michael is just like a human being, or a Gabriel, or a Raphael. I had a fellow the other day, a dignitary said to me, but are there many Michaels and many Raphaels and many Gabriels? I said, of course. Many billions, bigger number, yet one. What's that "yet one"? This is the point to understand. One in that kind, a nature of expression. But because a human being, a living God as a human being, is limiting its self-consciousness to an individual, to an individuality, it cannot understand what is called the common existence, and not the limited existence to a personality.

Now, I'll explain it more. Studying a human being, a man or a woman, you cannot say that you know every other human being. Different ways of living, all of them are living. Living means the common expression of infinite beingness to be as a human being living. That's common. But each human being, man or woman, has his own way of living, his own personality, his own individuality. An individuality, but in individuality you enter into the common selfhood, which you find in very, very deep introspection beyond what I call ecstasy, using the mind in a more perfect and impersonal way. Now, suppose I study the character, the nature, the way of expression of a human being. Maybe no other human being is expressing himself or herself in the same way.

Studying one Michael, you know all Michaels, because all Michaels have their own, not personality, maybe individuality—we don't have a better word to use—yet there are billions and billions of self-conscious gods in their common archangelic nature. The one and all, something unknown to the human being, living in the world of separateness, in the world of illusions. Because we are in very deep waters, we do not understand what is common locus selfhood. This is what Joshua Emmanuel the Christ came to teach us. He taught the Essenes and all those about this common locus selfhood. It is not easy to understand it as an individual, as a human being, having a name, a form. The form is common to all, to the body name.