1- God, Archangels & Human Beings Now, we will talk about Archangelology. What are the Archangels? And what is God? What is the absolute business? God, we will share now, is not from any books. Because no books have ever written anything about the Archangels. Why? Because people didn't have direct knowledge on this subject. They mentioned the books, the scriptures, about the Archangels. But no one ever said anything about the Archangels, or even the angels. They mentioned in the books, in the holy scriptures, about God. But no one described anything about this infinite beingness. Now, is it because they didn't dare to it? Maybe. But at least they could say something. At least to speak about the qualities of God, of the Archangels, and of our spirit ego. Who is God? So, to speak about these things is very difficult. Very, very difficult. But, again, to keep silent, it must be stupid. If I ask somebody to describe the sun, what can one know about the sun? We can imagine what is the sun. And our science knows that the sun is a heavenly body, burning, emanating heat and light. And they say that it is a million times bigger than the planet Earth. So they say, what can we know of the sun? Not being scientists, and having our telescope, and the means just to detect the sun. We can see it rising, just like a disc, giving us the heat. It gives us warmth, and giving us light. Yes, at least we can know that. We can feel the heat of the sun. If somebody would describe us, what is the sun? Saying that, yes, it's a sphere, it is rising in the sky, and we can get warm, it's giving us light. He is right. Yet, he is not absolutely right. Because the sun is a billion times bigger than the planet Earth, and in the Earth. Relatively speaking, it's just like a little macro, the children are playing with. The sun is as big as the Venus building. Anyhow, we can describe the sun. Even by saying that the sun is a sphere, a disc, just like a plate, rising in the sky, giving us light and heat. So far, we can speak about the sun. Likewise about the infinite beingness. What can we know about the infinite beingness? Just having the same thing in mind, we can speak about the infinite beingness. But we must be giving something accurate. Of course, I said the truth in saying that the sun is giving us heat and light. The dimensions, we should not attempt it. What can we say about the absolute beingness? In its self-abundance, my friend, very, very little. But to keep silent, it would be stupid. We must say something. We must try to understand something about the absolute beingness and its expression in what we call infinite beingness. Infinite will to express itself in itself as the locus and as the Holy Spirit. At least, we can know something. Locus means expression. Holy Spirit, again expression, dynamically. What can we know as human beings about the infinite beingness? That the infinite beingness and the locus and the Holy Spirit is the total wisdom, total love and total force of power. These three things we can understand by the symbol of a triangle. You can see in the symbol of life there. You see the triangle. Inside the triangle, we see a cross. What is the cross now? Is that the Christian symbol of sacrifice? It is that also. But for us, the symbol of life, it means something else. It is the balancing of the four elements. The upper part of the cross is the etheric or mental side, which is the ether vitality. The other side, left or right, doesn't matter. One side is water, the other side is fire. The lower part of the cross is the material plane. So for us, the cross means also the four elements and balancing the four elements. We are sure of the four elements. We have them in the material plane. So, who are the masters or the lords of these elements? Can we know? Of course we can. The lord of the vitality, you may call it in the human body ectoplasm, or vitality, etheric vitality, is a raffia. Its color is violet. You see it there on the symbol of life. The red color, blood red color, is fire. And the lord of fire and light is micro. The bluish color with all its hints, its space near the earth, around the earth, air and water, the element of water, is governed by Gabriel. The matter, the material world, is governed by a secondary archangel, if we can call him an archangel, which is Shammael. I think it's very little we are allowed to say about Shammael, because there should not be any connection between human beings and Shammael, if not being masters. He is the lord of separateness. People may call him the devil, but that isn't true. It's a necessary law for the creation. Now, what's a human being? What can a human being be? When we say human being, what must we mean? The present day personality? The soul, ego, self, or the spirit, ego, self? And these three, as long as a man is living in a material body. It's one ego, with three expressions. Now, as an ego, is he God? Yes, definitely. The ego is God. As ego spirit, as an ego soul, and as the shadow of the ego. So, again ego, which is constantly changing as a material body, as a psychical body, and as a mental body. These three together are making what we call the present day personality. But, the present day personality, these three bodies with the three doubles, plus the soul ego, is making what we call the permanent personality, which will be saved. It is the mortal part, which will become immortal, and the perishable one, which becomes imperishable. Perishable means in constant change. As a material body, as a psychical body, that means the body of the emotions, and as the neurotic or neurotic, or mental body as we call it, the body of thoughts. So, we see now the human being as a being, eternal God, and as an existing entity. Now I'm using a different word, the entity, which is the present day personality plus the permanent personality. Which will become immortal, because it is immortal in a sense, but in constant change. It gives the idea of not being immortal. It's imperishable, yet it seems to be perishable, since we are in that illusion we call time. We can repeat it, it's an illusion. And under this illusion, the imperishable seems to be perishable, and the immortal seems to be, or rather, the immortal seems to be mortal, because we see it in time as changing. Well, I'll give an example. When we come just to study ourselves and our behavior, rather, as a present day personality every night, before sleeping, and you bring in the surface of the subconsciousness into what we call consciousness, an event that happened during the day. You bring it up. So now you see time in a different way. You can see the event, succession of events, just as everything happened. Now, in what kind of time now you are seeing things? You can see them very, very slowly or very, very quickly. You have time in other dimensions. People are using it without just trying to study these things. So, you bring to the surface of the memory, again I say time, space, all the events have happened in the sense of space. A street, or an office, a house. Now, you bring again all those things in which street now you are in, just studying it, but in another dimension. So, what do you say for this thing you are doing now? Is that intelligence? Can you call it intelligence? The animals cannot do it. Using the mind, bringing the elementals in the surface, now you understand it after we gave the lesson about the subconsciousness, and the elementals, yes, so the elementals are living, and you can bring them in the surface any time you like, and see them, and study them, and just judge your behavior, and see what influence these elementals had on you during the hours now you are studying by remembering them. But now who gets the conclusions? Who gets the decisions now how to behave next day? You, who? The present day personality of that moment. God is now the so-called present personality before some hours. Has changed. You say, but no, that's me. No, that's not you. You are now the one who remembers that personality of yours before some hours, and how that personality, or never mind that you say, that's me, behaved. You now are judging, studying that behavior of yours. That time you call past. You have been a present moment personality. What are you now in relation to that which is past? That is the perishable which will become imperishable. That means all that elementals of yours, and the sum total of the elementals forming it, that you are calling you as an intelligence, as consciousness, is what you call the perishable, which in a sense is imperishable, but because it is under constant change, you call it perishable. That means nothing of you is lost. Everything is recorded in the cosmic consciousness. Everything that you have lived is living. That is a matter of bringing it into the surface. Now it's something I tell you, which very few know. The past incarnations, you can contact them in the cosmic consciousness. What is a past incarnation? From the moment of the conception until the moment of passing over inside the circle of possibilities and probabilities, because maybe the circle of probability will not be the same as the circle of possibilities. Maybe you have passed over prematurely. Yet you contact in the cosmic consciousness an elemental, the sum total of elementals of that life, you call that the present day personality, no, past personality. Now if you contact that elemental, is that elemental living? Yes, it's living, because it's composed of mind, and mind is not a dead substance, but life itself. So all our elementals are living. All the elementals we are calling past lives, now are living in the cosmic consciousness. They live their own life, as we live now the double life. They live a single life, as the life of the elemental. Now we are living a double life. The life of the elemental of our present day personality, a name where you are feeling and thinking, and yet living as ecosystems. This you realize after you become the master of the emotions and of the thoughts. But again, what is composed of a personality? Because we said that the infinite beingness has its plurality. We have our plurality also, and that's intelligent beings and entities existing, and that's bodies. You have the material body, you have billions of blood cells, billions of cells, other types of cells, and all those are composing what we call the various organs. The material body. And if you study the material body, we are calling it microcosm. It's just the same as the macrocosm. Also this is true for our psychical body, and our mental body, and the etheric doubles. That's true. So, the researcher after truth has much work to do, to investigate the truth, the relative truth, around his own entity and being, to different extent. I said in the morning that we are gods, or spirit, ego, self, and soul, ego, self, immortal, eternal, unchanging. And we exist now as an entity, as a human being. Is the soul equal to a human being? Of course not. Now we come again to the scriptures. Many are reading the Old Testament. They pass it, just like that, without just caring to think over these things. God said, said, expression. Did he say anything in words? Not necessarily. The expression is not only words or sounds. Thoughts are expressions. And God said, let there be light. And light, what is it? What is light, and what is darkness? We enter in the world of the opposite. What they call darkness, is a misconception. In the infinite beingness, there is not such a thing as darkness. Because God is light. And the Locust is light. In the creed of Thoth we say, I say that in Greek, I say that in Greek, Can you say it in Greek? In the German language? We are calling God light. And we call Christ light from light. So, what is light? Light. God is light. But what the light? The sunlight. And the sunlight. But that's not all. Because when we say light, we mean much more than the sun. Is light visible? No. Yet it's light. Even the sunlight, travelling in space, is not visible. You cannot see light. Unless it strikes on a solid thing just like a star and is reflected to you. And even so, you don't see the light. You see the star, you see the reflection. When you see the sky at night, it's dark. The light is travelling in space. Yet you cannot see it. Unless it strikes on a surface and is reflected. So we can see what we say light. When that thing as light emanates from a material object, a sun, or is reflected to another celestial body and returns to us. We cannot see light. We can see reflection of light. We cannot see the infinite beingness, but we can see its reflection. We cannot see life, but we can see the living forms. That's why they call light from light. What's life now? Infinite beingness. What is life in us, as phenomena of life? Beings of living forms all around us. So we can detect infinite beingness. Life being reflected in what we call living forms all around. In the creation. We can see it in what we call the words of the various dimensions, the heavens, the seven heavens. So, researcher of the truth should use his intelligence to pierce to the truth. Concerning what? Himself as a living entity, as a human being, and his eternal beingness, soul, and ego spirit. This should be the research after the truth. And how? We shall study the self of ours, starting from the bottom, from the material body, from the material plane, and knowing what we are so that we'll know later who we are, what we are, as an entity in the world of the opposites, of the material plane. A most wisely built up body, supervised by whom? We are human. We are becoming a man. Obey the idea of man, the heavenly man. Even Christ as Jesus, as Joshua, called himself the son of man. So, what are we as human beings, as, say, an entity living in a material body, in a psychical body, and in an ethical or mental body? That is our present-day personality, a composite entity, not me. Now I'll tell you how it is, so that we step in the archangelology. Any human being, as an ego spirit, is an archangel, belonging in the order of the authorities. This is a kind of order of the archangels. So, it says in the holy scriptures, and God said, let us create man to our likeness and image. To whom he said that? To the holy archangels. He said that to its plurality. Now, if you meet an archangel, any archangel of any order, and ask him, what are you? He will give those vibrations which will be translated by you as God, and he is right. Archangels are Gods, but Gods, we are also, as spirit egos, as I said, every human being is an archangel. Now, what is the difference between us and the archangels? We have billions, billions number of Michaels, billions of Gabriels, billions of Raphaels, billions of archangels of any other order. The same way we have billions of human beings. Now, there is a difference. Knowing an archangel of fire and light, as Michael, you know, every Michael, because their system, the church is calling them the system. So, one Michael is all the Michaels, according to the vibrations, and being lords of light and fire. All Gabriels are one, yet there are billions of Gabriels. All Raphaels are one, though there are billions of Raphaels. When the infinite being has said, let us create man according to our likeness and image, he didn't mean to create one man, one human being, but a human race. So, for each man in his body, psychical body, nautical body, is one Michael, one Gabriel, one Raphael, one Guria. Yet, attuned to, with all of its order, there is not the law of separateness in the archangelic orders. Well, for the human beings, not two men as present personalities are the same. Because we are living in the world of the separateness, as human beings. This is maybe what the church is calling the form of man. Now, time and space. It's an illusion that human beings as entities understand, but it does not exist in reality. Two archangels of any order know what is time, they say now. And after some time, you tell him, what is time? Now. What's that now, in time? It is now. He knows what is the eternal now. So, they cannot understand what is past, present, and future. They know the eternal now. Human beings can know what is eternity by knowing what is time. That's the ring the father gave to the prodigal son, returning back. A ring which is a symbol of eternity. Because infinite beingness is motion. There is no right to motion, there is no beginning, there is no end. Is the human being or the human archangel returning privileged? I say, yes. Of course he is. This is what really makes him realize that he belongs to the order of the archangels we call authorities. So, let us say the descent of man into matter. We said, matter is mind solid. Everything is mind. So, when an archangel, the orders of the authorities, seeks the desire, which is the desire maybe of the infinite beingness, to project for incarnation, he is definitely accompanied by a metatronius, an archangel of the infinite. The metatronus. Why? Who knows? Who can know? Even the metatronus doesn't know. But, accompanied by the metatronius, this echo fight becomes one with that. So, we have the coin with two sides. The one side with the head is the metatronus. The other side, showing the value, is the present day personality. The different value, each coin. The clean side is the metatronus. We call it dirty side, which has to be clean. The metatronus is the present day personality. Now, on the coin, what is our echo spirit self and our soul self? The coin, the whole coin. Now, when an echo spirit of the authorities, accompanied by a metatronus, starts, then we hear the words of the infinite beingness, let us create man to our own likeness and image. I said, to whom he said that? To Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel, and then one from each order starts building the new entity's mental body. At the same time, the psychical body, the material body. In time, which time? Now, they are working in the sense of time, but they don't understand. What they do is super-consciously in the eternal now. That means constant work on the circle of possibilities. So, the holy archangels are the circle of the possibilities for the human race. Circles, many, many circles on one circle of possibilities. One circle of possibilities for each human being. Many circles of probabilities concerning every one of us. Probabilities. You may not give the whole round on the circle. You may step out at any point. The law of possibilities is unchangeable, constant, and that's in what we call total wisdom of the infinite beingness. Everything is in the infinite beingness. The absolute ruler is the infinite beingness. The mind in our head, the seizure, is the infinite beingness. The two hands obeying the orders is the Christos, the Lord God, and the Holy Spirit, and the holy archangels. What is Michael giving to the human body? The work of the archangels, Michael, Capri, and Raphael, is giving us the red, warm blood. It's their work. Now, we have the skeleton, the bones. Different kind of atoms. Those are created most wisely by the daughters of the Balancer, that's Uriel, by Samuel, the Lord of the Earth, because the bone is just like stone. It's material. But then we have in the human body the various organs, composition of the elements, heat, light, water, call it magnetism, energy, just to keep a human body working, living in good health. Who is just working to build a human body? Definitely the archangels. In us, a Michael, a Capri, a Raphael, a Uriel, and still other workers in it, the Cherubs, and the Seraphs, and many, many others. How do I know it? Reading it in books? No, by coming in contact with them, and knowing them directly. Maybe other masters did not dare reveal these things. I don't see the reason why Yohanan will not speak openly. Why not? It's time that people should know the whole truth. Know the truth, and the truth will liberate you from ignorance.