1- Shadows of the Light Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. What is, was, and always will be, is the absolute, infinite beingness, God the Father. The absolute, infinite reality. What is this absolute, infinite beingness? Only a few things the human intelligence can trace and can know. The things we know is that this absolute, infinite beingness is the absolute, infinite selfhood. Selfhood means knowing what it is. So the selfhood is in the absolute, infinite beingness. Other characteristics of this absolute, infinite beingness is the everlasting life. Other characteristics are the unextinguishable light. So this absolute, infinite beingness manifests itself as the light. Another is the love. Absolute, impersonal love. There are certain other things the human beings who can raise their self-consciousness in higher and higher levels can conceive, but they cannot express this splendor in words. Another nature of this absolute, infinite beingness is the self-sufficiency. Yet in it is also the will-pleasure of manifesting itself in itself. Now what is this manifestation? To manifest itself in itself. This will-pleasure is giving new characteristics now to the absolute, infinite beingness. Part of it is the absolute, infinite beingness now. The locus. According to the language Chris was talking, because he was talking in the Greek and in the Aramaic language. In the Greek it is Evarezkia, in the Aramaic it is El Shatay, which means the locus, the manifestation. Now, from this point we can see in the absolute, infinite beingness now new characteristics. The manifestation of itself as life. We can see now its total and absolute wisdom and its all-mightiness. Now we can trace more of the nature of the absolute, infinite beingness as the absolute, infinite beingness. In this manifestation, as the absolute, infinite wisdom, we see the selfhood of the absolute, infinite beingness expressed now in the forms. The various kinds of expressing the life. But we see something else also. We can trace the multiplicity of this absolute, infinite beingness. In it there are billions and billions and billions and billions. There is no name for it now. We cannot give them any name. But we can give them any name after the manifestation. Because all this multiplicity of the absolute, infinite beingness in its common, total selfhood cannot be given a name. Yet now, seeing the will-pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness to express itself in itself, in the manifestation this will-pleasure becomes a prism. Is that not what you call it? And we can see the absolute, colorless life now appearing in colors. And we can trace in the works of creation the seven colors. So, beings now, through this will-pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness, manifest, of course, the total beingness, the locus, and through the locus to the total selfhood, now expressing the archangelic orders. At the beginning I can see the triplicity, three. It is the white light, tending to become canary yellow light, or the golden light, which is the color of the locus, of the El Shaddai directly. Then we see the red, blood-red vibrations giving that light, and I see these beings passing through that, of course, these vibrations are giving sounds, and those passing through those vibrations, these sounds give them the word Macha-El. Now there is another, again, in the prism of the will-pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness, which is the blue color. This blue color, by its vibrations, it gives us the word Gabriel, the Gabriel. So we have these two orders, and ahead of it the El Shaddai. In every triangle I have two corners, down and one up. So, everything passes through the locus, self. Now, union in the cooperation of the work, in the creating work of these two classes, classes, it's not one Michael, it's not one Gabriel, there are billions and billions and billions, their name is the vibrations of them, are producing, we have these three colors, from these three colors, union of them, I have these seven colors, then I have union of Michael and Gabriel, I find the expression of other beings appearing to the world of creation, we call them the Raphaels, the Raphaels are not inferior to the Michaels or to Gabriels, but coming they pass through the work of these two, I have the union, of course painters can know the mixing up of the colors, we have the emerald, green color, which is work of certain classes of archangels, the archangels started creating, these seven heavens, these seven worlds of existence, now we are in the world of existence, the higher noetic, the noetic, the ornatical, the psychical, the ethereal and the material worlds, and these are worlds created by the vibrations of these archangels using the mind, now what is the mind? The mind, from this very first moment, the absolute infinite beingness, expresses, not conceives, because the total wisdom and the almightyness was always and will always be, the beingness self-sufficiency, but now we have the manifestation, so the manifestation, I have it, a certain part of what I call space, and space is the nature of the absolute infinite beingness, now seeing those vibrations, the light, so the religious are calling the infinite beingness and the beingness, the locus, light, sun from the light, it's true, they are not light, they express the light, this is the point, but certain entities, I won't call them entities, I'll call them not even beings, they are not God for it, because they get the word being after passing through this prism we call the will pleasure, certain passing, have thought that they could just create a word in themselves, separating themselves from the absolute infinite beingness, so they have been rejected, these are the fallen ones, and they have wrapped themselves by what we call word of separateness, they have entered in the words of the manifestations, now as thieves, robbers, to get what was not their own, just to steal the work of the archangels of the creation, of course, according to their vibrations, according to the way they have wrapped themselves in an illusion, they have created what we call the darkness, the darkness exists but it is not a reality, the darkness can be when there is not the light present there, so what they have created, those beings now, we can call them beings, the fallen ones, just wrapping themselves with their own way of conceiving themselves as gods, they have created in themselves the darkness, and then according to their vibrations, that darkness was in seven degrees, so all of them are not the same, as all the archangels are not the same, classifying themselves in their orders, so the fallen ones classify according to their vibrations, and to the degree of the darkness, of the veil, they have wrapped themselves to seven shadows, let us call it better shadows than darkness, because even those veils are pierced by the love of God, and by the light of God, so they think they are independent, yet they are dependent on the life and love of the father, otherwise they would not exist, to be, of course, they will return back to the nature, but they would not exist, now existing, though they are the lords of darkness, of the shadows, still that darkness is pierced by the light, the love of the father, I am telling you, the darkest hell has light in it, for those who are working in those hells, to help human beings who have followed these fallen archangels, now, what have they lost? They can project angels of darkness, they are elementals, they can do that, they can create veils of darkness, to cover human beings, they can do that, but they have lost the power of creating, the archangels can create, the fallen ones call them demons, call them devils, of course, I am not allowed, according to their vibrations, of the shadows to give their names, they are known their names, but they are not allowed to pronounce them, so, what happened? Happened, it is happening now, it will always happen, because this is an expression of the eternal present, the eternal now, when the lords of the light, the archangels, using the real pleasure, of the infinite beingness, its and their own total wisdom, and their almightiness, in creating, they have created the worlds, and the universes, and the heavens, these fallen ones, entered in those heavens, having their own, as they believe, independence, which it is not, so, just by permission of God, that they are doing what they are doing, maybe, it is also in the divine plan, to create the world of separateness, so, now we come to the human being, to the animals, it is a different thing, they cannot use the animals, the devils, but what happens with the human being? The holy archangels of the elements, started working, to give, in the words of existence, to a human being, what I would call them, the bodies, using what you call the permanent atom, the form, the human form, always existed in those who had been humanized, even at the time they were in the absolute infinite beingness, but passing through that, they have found the light, of the selfhood, in the El Shattai or the Locos, so, the holy archangels started working to dress those spirit beings, with their bodies, maybe, a metathron, a high spirit of the dominions, and the thrones, to accompany the spirit soul being now, it is, just to balance the influence of the fallen ones, so, when the holy archangels of the elements, started creating, the permanent atom, our real self, our spirit, soul self, who is God, light, we are light, we are life, we have never revolted, it is a revolt against God, yet, in expressing ourselves through the permanent atom, and while the archangels have created, our bodies, perfect, the archetypes are kept by the holy archangels, our guardian angels, yet, a little, time and place based self, has been created, and they got the chance, the fallen ones, to wrap that little self of ours, our personality, with their veils, of darkness, and of shadows, I said that these veils, according to their density, and the kind of being transparent, are classified in seven classes, these are not to be, taught publicly, so, it's left to the holy archangel, the guardian archangel, and to the soul, manifesting itself now, in the world of form, to be influenced, misguided maybe, and so, we find human beings now, the little self, the personality, wrapped with these veils, all human beings are not covered with the same density of veil, but it is our responsibility, what we have accepted, so, now I have, the bodies, of the human being, the material body, the third example, the psychical body, the noetical body, the noetic body, perfect, created by holy archangels, and the fallen ones, cannot touch them, but, the reflection, of the spirit, soul ego, in the bodies, has been influenced by these fallen archangels, by their vibrations, so we find, our spirit, soul ego, God perfect, having a reflection, which depends, and we have, our duality, though we are Gods, perfect, luminous, light, everlasting life, yet we have a little self, petty little self, our personality, male or female, a personality, shall we call, this personality, evil? No. Influenced? Yes. So we have, present the personality of a man, divine, and covered by shadow, but the shadow, is not a reality, it is a phenomenon, so, the work of the fallen ones, can be found, in the material world, they claim, the material world, to be their own, what is the work of the holy archangels, of the elements, working in them, because they don't care, the holy archangels, of the elements, if robbers are coming, claiming, their property as their own, and of course, they have that claim, on the bodies of the human beings, that isn't true, because the human body, of a human being, is built up, perfectly, on the form, of the human form, keeping it, in good order, and the El Shaddai, the locus, always is working, in the material body, to keep it, in order, in good order, in good health, but, to the new created, time and place, little self, our personality, they have, just done, well, I won't call it, just a bad thing, but, maybe, it is in the divine plan, as well, they have, wrapped it, with a veil, of shadow, of darkness, according, to our choice, our choice, according, to the reflection, of our vibration, is the veil, that, had been accepted, to be on us, so, these fallen ones, cannot affect, the material body, which is under, ability, and power, of the loss, of the elements, of the archangels, to build it, can't they affect, the etheric double? No, they cannot approach it, but, they can affect, the so- called, psychic body, of the personality, because, the personality, in reality, starts from the psychical body, the body of the emotions, that's why, the archangel, keeps the archetypes, perfect, and a human being, as a present day, little, personality, given the substance, of the emotions, just, work on it, free yourself, from the shadow, of the fallen ones, so that you'll become light, and make it, just brilliant, splendid, as the archetypes, kept in the holy archangel, our guardian archangel. So, we can see, the influence, of the fallen ones, on what I call, the personality, of a man, which is, the psychical, created body, and not the archetype, and the noetical body, not the noetic, that's, only the place, they can, influence a human being. Why, did the El Shaddai, or the Locos, permitted that? Who can say? Anyhow, we know that, the El Shaddai, or the Locos, respecting the free will, and the freedom, of the created, in time and place, self, of the personality, to choose, not interfering. So, in the El Shaddai, or the Locos, the greatest, the greatest principle, is the freedom, to choose. What about, now, the Shekinah, or the Holy Spirit? The Shekinah, had rejected, the fallen ones, and by rejecting them, they have lost, the power, of creating. So, the fallen ones, cannot create anything. Still, they kept, a pride in them, to feel, being Lords, of the darkness, that be inferior, Archangels, in the light. Why? It's their own business. Anyhow, they can influence, a human being, I mean, the personality, of a human being, not more than, that human being, can resist, so that the human being, will be responsible. They cannot influence him, to the point, that a human being, will say, what can I do? After all, that's my destiny, I am under the influence, of the devil, or of the fallen ones. They are not true. They can never influence, the personality of a man, more, than it can afford, and can counteract, to them. Maybe this is the divine plan, to strengthen, the, newly created, in time and place, personality, self, in assimilating itself, with the real self, inside, which is, our own reality, our spirit, ego-self. So, the seeker of the truth, should know, all this great truth. He should know, now, as a human being, I have been given, a material body, perfectly built, by the Lords, of the Archangels, the Archangelic Order, so the Lords of the Elements. And, all the time, any single moment, the El Shaddai, or the Logos, is working, in my body, to keep it, in perfect order. Wounds, are cured, that are closed, and broken bones, are joined. So, though, we have, as, time and place, persons, selves, allowed, to be wrapped, with certain veil, of shadow or darkness, the Logos, cares about the material body, we are using, the greatest gift. I am the bread, from the Heaven, nourishing, that material body. That was, where the words, of Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ. The El Shaddai, humanized. So, but, though, the Logos, tolerates, seeing, the personality, of a person, being wrapped, by various, intensity, shadow veils, he lives, even the newly, created, self, that personality, to work, for its own, purification. Not interfering, but, he decided, to be incarnated, as a human being, in Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ, to show the way, to wake us up. Saying, that, the perishable, should become imperishable, because, it is imperishable, in nature. It is perishable, in manifestation. And, the seemingly, mortal, during the time, under the law, of change, should become, immortal, because, it is immortal, in nature. That was why, a ray of the El Shaddai, the Logos, have been incarnated, into Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ, who became, perfect God, and perfect human. So, there is no excuse. We are given, the mind, the holy, super substance. The Lords of darkness, and shadow, try, to stop us, from using the mind, using the mind, in lower vibrations, as emotions. Even so, expressing ourselves, now, as the present day, personality, we are using the mind, subconsciously, instead of, self-consciously, of our divine nature. There, we are again influencing, the human beings, in transforming, the mind, emotion, which is love, into desires. They know that, because, that desire, has turned them, from archangels, into demons, passing from the, say, total, wisdom, pleasure of God, they didn't keep, their identity, in the whole, but created in themselves, the desire, of separating themselves, from the absolute, infinite selfhood, by wrapping themselves, with the veil, they have created, of darkness, because darkness, is not something permanent, it is something, created. Now, I give the definition, how, are called, according to, our expressions, these veils, of shadows, or darkness, will give them, in other lessons, you call them, egoism, you call them, pride, you call them, feeling, tendency, for adultery, and many, many, many other things, because, these have been, classified also, so, whether we classify them, or not, it doesn't matter, we feel them, we live with them, we can know, their influence, on our, personality, and, we are, free to choose, free to choose, but, violating, the laws of order, and, when these laws, return, to their, harmony, we have to feel, the consequences, so, the consequences, can wake up, a human being, because, a human being, even, as a personality, has in himself, the sense, of good, and bad, I won't call it evil, so, one has to choose, I said in a lesson, what is light, an extinguishable light, life, and love, is in us, we are living, in a body, with just, using the mind, seeing, the work of the holy unconscious, and of the locus, keeping it in good order, work with them, and live, the life, we should live, so, we are the life, but now wrapped, with these veils, of the shadows, we are making our own life, and of course, the life, of two persons, is not the same, different way, of thinking, different way, of feeling, different way, of expressing themselves, different way, of feeling, the reactions, from their own, way of life, so, living, an evil life, again, I don't want to, use this word, a bad life, why should we call it bad, we'll say, just, a way of life, which, will make us, understand, what we are, who we are, and where, we are going, in every violation, of the law, of that law, is the consequence, the consequence, is to wake us up, it's not a punishment, where is then, the success, of the fallen ones, on the human beings, they are not successful, they are influencing, a human being, for some time, until that, human being, that little self, will understand, that my nature, is that I am the self, misguided, blinded to the light, but I have now, to open my eyes, and see the light, and because, there is the light, an extinguishable light, everywhere, the prodigal son, has to, return back, to his home, besides, wrapping themselves, the human beings, with the veils of shadow, let us call them vices, and just, not a normal way of living, we can understand, what is now, the light, we can appreciate the light, we can appreciate, what is, life. Now, if you are born in a room, full of light, you have been in the light, the extinguishable light, you have been, while, our ego selves, were, in our, beingness, in God the Father. Now, if you are born, just in a room, full of light, and I put you the question, what is light? Can you tell me, what is light? No. But if, I take you out, where it is dark, darkness, just only for a moment, and then bring you in again, and tell you, what is light? You say, no, no, no, I know what is light, because I know, what is darkness. But before, you couldn't know. So, we came as light, we are light, we have a self, we know, what is life, we are living, it is our life. Now, exposed, to our way of life, and to the shadow, of the following ones, the end, will be to, make us appreciate, what is life, what is light. Maybe that is why, the Shaddai is allowing them, to tempt us. So, what is the duty now? Of a seeker of the truth, man or a woman? First, to acknowledge, his or her, divine nature, life, living. To value, by using the mind, the work of the Holy Archangels, in providing that self, that petty self, the personality, with a body, which, he or she, can keep in perfect order, keeping it, under the law. It is not difficult to do that. Everybody can use the mind, if he wants to use it, and use it as reason. And thank, the Holy Archangels, for their, work, in creating, that material body. And find, the self, the real self, which is God, in their body, entrusted to them, given to them, and all the time, under the care, of the absolute, infinite beingness, to keep it in good health, considering them, gods. Christ says, your bodies are, temples of God. Great truth. So, now, knowing this truth, everybody can come, to this conclusion. And seeing now, the way, human beings, are living, all the time, transgressing the laws, and seeing, the illness, as consequence, of their transgressing the law, on their material body, and seeing, at the same time, they are suffering, they are ill, the locals, working, insistently, to keep them in good, health. So, who is the cause, now, of illnesses, that are not, the evil ones? Because, human beings have, just that bad habit, of never accepting, the fault, that it is theirs, and trying to put it, on somebody else. And many, all the time, are just, putting the responsibility, their own responsibility, to the fallen ones. But, why? Even the work, of the fallen ones, is just to strengthen us. Maybe it is necessary. Because, if that was not so, the El Shaddai, would not allow it. He even, have allowed, the tempter, I think, that is the word. Of course, we know the names, of those, who came to tempt, even Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ. You have become, a human being now. Yes, I know, you are the perfect ray, of the El Shaddai, the Lord. Yes, but, now you are a human being, and that body, belongs to me. No, it does not belong to you. Of course, in the new book, I am writing, I will write, the whole dialogue, between, Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ, with the tempter. Because, he had delivered it. So, to help the others, his, disciples, to resist, the evil. Why, they have taken it, out of the Bible? I am wondering, those first fathers. Why? That was a crime. Now, I will put it, in my new book, the whole dialogue, so that people, will be enlightened, and understand, what is going on, in them, and how, they can just, find their way. He said, I am the way. I am the way, the truth, and life. Great, words indeed.