1- The Christ Logos and the Divine Selfhood Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation. Deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We repeat that the absolute infinite beingness, God, is the everlasting life. The nature of this absolute infinite beingness is life. In the absolute beingness we see as its nature the self-sufficiency. This absolute infinite beingness is lacking nothing. In it is what we say the total wisdom. Apart from the total wisdom in the absolute infinite beingness and its self-sufficiency, there is also the real pleasure of expressing itself in itself, since it is life. To manifest itself as life in all the phenomena of life. So, what else do we see in this absolute infinite beingness? God. Its multiplicity. In this absolute infinite beingness are beyond any number beings. These beings are composing the absolute infinite beingness. And these beings in the absolute beingness are similar to the absolute infinite beingness. They are not inferior, they are not lacking from the father absolute infinite beingness. Which means these beings have in themselves the total wisdom, the self-sufficiency. But now, how can we understand from our human intelligence the real nature of this absolute infinite beingness? Unless we have something tangible. What do we have? We ourselves as living beings. We are living. A human being is just a manifestation of the absolute infinite beingness. A living being. What are the expressions of the living beings? Knowing themselves. Who they are. That means this selfhood. We cannot have something from nothing. So, as we get everything from the absolute infinite beingness, as matter, mind and everything else, so we are part of the absolute infinite selfhood. So, the main nature which we will understand the absolute infinite beingness, is the absolute infinite selfhood. It knows who it is. If it is, if it was not, how the absolute beingness would manifest the total wisdom? Now, the expressions and the manifestations of the absolute infinite beingness maybe are many, too many. Yet, we understand only three modes of this beingness. The absolute infinite locus, the word, which is just expressing the absolute infinite selfhood and also dynamically. It's not only just the selfhood. Now, manifesting the absolute infinite beingness itself now dynamically, we can see in it the all-mightiness. Nothing is beyond its power. And then we call that manifestation the Holy Spirit. So, it is the three states we can understand. The main nature of the absolute beingness is self-sufficiency. The real pleasure of manifesting itself, which is the selfhood, Christos Logos, and the dynamical expression, which is the whole creation is in the absolute beingness, which is the Holy Spirit. I said there may be many, many other modes of beingness, but these three, the human beings and the human intelligence can understand. Now, we said that in the absolute infinite beingness there are beyond, beyond any number, beings. These beings in the absolute infinite beingness are similar. There is not any distinction. But, passing through the manifestation, through the Logos, they have their own, now, expression. And we see these beings now expressing a certain order of archangels, of beings. Then we have the Holy Archangels. I repeat, all the Holy Archangels beyond any number are similar to the absolute infinite beingness. In the self-sufficiency, in having the total wisdom, and now passing through the Logos and through the Holy Spirit, through both these modes of beingness, they have their own expression. Now, the very moment, the absolute infinite beingness and the Logos and the beings, that very moment, which is when? There was not any time that this didn't happen. That moment, from the absolute infinite beingness and the beings, start emanating the mind. I would rather call the mind more in the authority of the Holy Spirit, because the mind is the energy and the means by which the absolute infinite beingness and the beings will manifest themselves as the life. Now, studying the mind, we see that the mind, in the absolute infinite beingness, in the boundless space, is the super substance. The super substance is formless. Yet, in this super substance, there is the total wisdom of the Almighty, which is the cause of everything, the laws governing everything, the principles which are governing everything. So, the real might and power of the mind is beyond the world of forms. It is in the world of the principles, of the laws, of the causes. We shall call this the noetic world. Now, we have the mind in lower frequencies of vibrations, which is like a super substance and substance together. Now, we see that in this world, the noetical world, the forms appear. Forms. Hot forms. Beyond number forms. Because this is the total wisdom of the absolute infinite beingness. And why the forms are appearing? Hot forms. To manifest life. Nothing can exist, living, unless it has a form. Any form. From the amoeba, the worm, the butterfly, the birds, the animals, the trees, the galaxy, the planet. Is the planet living? Yes, the planet is living. The stones are living. The rocks are living. In the stones and in the rocks, you have the crystals. It's life there. So, there is no place to be conceived where there is not the life. Because the life is the omnipresent, absolute infinite beingness. So, what is the cause of the creation of the universes? The pleasure of the absolute beingness to manifest itself in itself. And so, by the human intelligence and the human way of conception, we can just approach and study seven heavens. Now, which are these seven heavens? And from what are these seven heavens made? Definitely by the mind. It is the mind. So, the various frequencies of the mind are giving me the heavens. Maybe there are many more. Many, many more. Who knows? The archangels may know better than human beings know. But human intelligence cannot go beyond the seven heavens. And even those who can go to the seventh heaven, returning to the lower heavens, they cannot find words to describe the splendor of those heavens. And what are these heavens? Not only these seven heavens, and even more than these seven heavens. What are they? Joshua, the Christ, who was the immaculate ray of the locus directly incarnated and materialized into Joshua, the Christ, said that plainly, the kingdom of the heavens is in you. In every one of us. Which means, every one of us can approach it. Because it is in us. Or the kingdom of the heavens. Which means that we are gods. We live and the nature of life is divine. Our expression as a self, as a self-conscious being, proves that we are gods. And as such, as gods, we can use the intelligence, express the intelligence, and use the mind for self-recognition to understand who and what we are. Then what do we find? By concentration, direct meditation, observation, contemplation, we understand the various modes of life. Because all the modes of life are not the same. We have the life of the rocks, of the earth, of the planet, of the crystals, of the diamonds, of the metals, of gold, of everything. So, we can study all these modes of life and find our place in these modes of life. Because we have a place in these modes of life, which is from the lowest to the highest. That is why a human being is called the microcosm in comparison to the macrocosm. Which means, in the macrocosm, we have the absolute infinite beingness. That corresponds to our spirit, ego-self. We have the locus, the loquoic super- consciousness. That corresponds to our soul, the manifestation of the soul of the absolute infinite being. Then, we have the bodies, our bodies, which correspond to the Holy Spirit. Because we said that the Holy Spirit, dynamically holding the almightiness of the absolute infinite beingness, is creating the worlds and the heavens. So, what we shall see now? Two states and conditions of things. The eternal, the absolute infinite beingness, never changing, everlasting, which is the absolute infinite selfhood. Self-knowing. And, of course, what I see in the absolute infinite beingness, eternal, I see it in the expression. Now, the expression is changing. The manifestations of the worlds are leading us to the worlds of the existence. Now, the world of the existence is in the world of the beingness. It's not separate from it. Because to exist, it means that it has in it the beingness. And so, we see the worlds of the existence. These worlds of the existence are the worlds of the various dimensions. See now the worlds of the existence. We have the noetic world. I said the world of the principles of the laws of the causes. And then I have the noetical world, the world of the forms. So, so that a form may appear, may be created, it must have behind it a cause and a law. And the law and the cause is all the time, in all the manifestations of the forms, controlling it. Because this is what we call the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. So, it is not just simply because the Church or the Fathers of the Church mentioned these words to mean nothing to us, these words. Because in these words, there is great, great meaning which we must approach it with our mind, not just whispering the words. Because words are for meanings, to give meanings. So, we come to the conclusion. Every kind of a form is in the world of the existence. And it is the expression of the total wisdom of the infinite beingness using the mind now. We said we find the mind now as supersubstantial. The world of the ideas of the laws of the causes. Now I have the noetical world, the reflection of these laws and causes to be formulated, creating the forms. All kinds of forms. And we said that the forms tend to serve life. To have now life. Life away from the source of life. No. In it. Yet independent. These are the characteristics of the selfhood. And this selfhood is expressed by human beings and by the holy archangels. Now, what about trees and animals and parasites? Don't they have a self? No, they don't. They are the expressions of a hidden self behind them, which are the angels and the archangels. And their creation is creating them. So there is a self behind them, but these forms are not expressing a self. This is why the human being is God. You cannot say a lamb, a cow, a lion, a God. Because all those are crystallized, materialized thought forms of the archangels. Elementals. So the archangels, using the mind, with their creationism and their wisdom and their all-mightiness, are composing all those living forms around us. The vegetable kingdom and the animal kingdom. And they implant in these forms life. But that life is their life. It is not independent life of the animals or the trees. This is the point. While a human being is expressing his own life. Because he is God. So, we are similar to the archangels. As what? As human beings. Yes, and as human beings, but not absolutely as human beings. Because considering ourselves as human beings, our bodies, we are not different from the animals. As an expression, living expression, phenomenon of life, a human being is not different from the animals. Having the human form, which is of course the image of God according to the Bible, yet we have bones, blood, flesh, organs, and so many things functioning to keep that human form alive. This is in the animal kingdom also. So, studying deeply, trying to find who we are and what we are, we understand what the animals and the plant kingdom are penetrating through this form. We see the angels and the archangels. Angels. The angels are the elementals of the archangels. Now, an archangel is a being, spirit, ego. But the ego, the I-ness of an archangel is not exactly as the I-ness of a human being. There is a great difference in the expression, not in nature. In nature we are similar. There is no distinction, but in expression we are different. Now, how a human being has been created? We go back to the Old Testament. There it is stated that God, the absolute infinite being, said, that means expressed as logos, the will, pleasure. To whom? Let us create man according to our image and according to our likeness. Not different. Of course we know that he said that to the other gods, the archangels, the lords of the elements. He said that. Which means in which language? That means the absolute infinite being- ness vibrating the total wisdom, such as vibrating the same in the archangels. It was not given an order because the will, pleasure of the infinite being-ness was the will, pleasure also of the archangels. And of us a spirit solikos. So we also have created our own material self. What happens then? One ray, not more, of our real self, which never departed from God. A spirit started projecting itself in itself, in the absolute being-ness, and from that moment the spirit ego-self becomes also, without changing, as our soul. So, according to the study of the great ones, and anyone even now can approach this truth, from the great throne of the archangels, another ray of an archangel of the thrones descended, had been ego-fied with the soul becoming our guardian archangel. So we have the twin one, ego-fied. What does it mean ego-fied? By at-one-ment becoming one, yet not being one in nature, in expression being one. Let us make man to our image and according to our likeness. All the other archangels, similar in the absolute being-ness, now manifest their separate selves. As Michael's, Gabriel's, Raphael's, Uriel's, Cherub's, Seraph's, to start their own work. A great honor for a human being. You know that you are, in your material bodies, and in the etheric double, and the psychical body, and the etheric double, and the nautical body of yours, you are living in it now, in a body, in a material body. A Michael is working, a Raphael is working, a Gabriel is working, a Uriel is working, the Seraph's and the Cherub's are working. Now, this moment, just to keep your material bodies alive, is not a great, great honor. Do we appreciate that? Do we know that? By introspection and serious study, we will come to know all these things, and even come in self-conscious contact with these archangels. Know them. And when we do that, entering the so-called self-realization, according to Joshua the Christ, he said, joy is to your angels in heaven, which is in you, for one who returns back to his nature, back home. So, a Michael is arranging in your material bodies the necessary heat, the temperature. That's not you as a person doing that. A Gabriel is providing the liquids in the body. Shamal is providing the earth of it, the skeleton, and many others. Matter, not substance. Let us call it substance, but the way it is, matter, not substance. And then, Uriel is balancing the things to keep them in order. Raphael is giving the etheric vitality in our bodies. They all cooperate wisely, creating the red, warm blood. In our bodies only? No, in the animals also. And something like the blood is in the trees. Liquids going up the trunk, to feed the leaves. So, studying the nature around you, you'll be wondering at the total wisdom and the all-mightiness of these archangels, the lords of the elements, and of the locus. Now, studying the things around us, we study the nature of the archangels and the angels. Studying our nature now, as a personality, our personal self, we can approach the locus. Because the lord of life, selfhood, is the locus. Now, what is the relation between Joshua, Emmanuel, the Christ, with the locus? What is the relation? There must be a relationship between them. Of course, a wise one, Buddha, Bodhisattva, Buddha, predicted the coming of the one God in a human being, directly, without ascending the scale of reincarnations. Because before passing away, he said to his disciples, 500 years from today, God himself will be humanized. This is what they had, the wise men of the East, in their mind, the time when they came just to worship Joshua the Christ, the time of his birth. Now, we shall recognize now the relationship between Joshua the Christ, a young man who lived only 33 years. Did he live more? He crucified. But what was that young man, Joshua, Emmanuel, the Christ, to the locus? Of course, the locus was always, that was the real pleasure of the infinite absolute beingness, the ocean, the boundless ocean of life. And what it can be now, Joshua, a human being, a young man, a man just like any one of us? Yes. That young man knew from the very beginning who he was, and he knew, he was calling himself son of God, he knew it. And he has proved it with what he was doing, with all his life, and knowing Joshua. Before his crucifixion, when the Pharisees came provoking him, he said, before the foundation of the world, before Abraham, I am. He didn't say, I was, because he was speaking in the eternal now. So that means, Joshua, the God-man, so we must call him, was God, perfect God, being in his material body. And when, of course, they questioned about that, the Pharisees and others said, you don't believe, telling you that I am the son of God, and God believed to the works I am doing. So, Joshua existed 20 centuries, for 33 years, existed, was, all through the eternity behind us, is now, and will always be, the locus, and the son of man. Not only the locus, and the son of man. He said, I am the son of man. That means, I have passed through the idea of man, in the total wisdom of the Father, and of myself. So, while being on earth, Christ was feeling like anyone around. He was conscious of everybody. What is he now? As the King, the Divine Majesty in the Kingdom of the Heavens, which is inside everyone of us also. You read it in the Bible. What was he feeling, and what is he feeling? He said, you come blessed ones, because when I was hungry, you gave me something to eat. When I was thirsty, you gave me something to drink. When I was naked, you gave me something to put on. When I was in the prison, that means in the material body, incarnated, you visited me. And I told him, sir, when did we see you? Hungry, or thirsty, or naked? He said, in so much you have done to one of these lists of brethren of mine, you have done it to me. Because he was and he is in every human being. He had proved it. How? When he was speaking to his disciples, giving them instructions, and to the wise ones who visited him, to Philip and to Nicodem, he said, the flesh is nothing. It is the spirit which is giving life. He said, you are spirit. God is spirit, and those who approach him, should approach him in spirit and in truth. And Yohanan the Baptist said, I baptize you in water for the forgiveness of your sins, but you are coming after me. His first cousin, Joshua the Christ, will baptize you in fire and in spirit. In fire and in spirit. It is in the Bible. Who cares to understand what it means? This is what's wrong. They don't just try to understand what it means. And so, where is Christ now? Where is Joshua the Christ now? Was Joshua a man or the Christ? Just a human being who lived 33 years, was crucified, and he passed away to oblivion. No, he is now in every one of us. And what, as he said, the one man is doing to the other, good or evil, he is doing it to him. Does he feel pain? Yes. What did he say himself? Seeing people tortured, and others torturing people. My soul, as Joshua the Christ, is grieved unto death. Now, Christ, Joshua the Christ, was speaking in the Greek language. Because being himself in flesh and in sin, a Greco-Israelite, he was preaching mainly in the Greek language. In Aramaic, in Latin, and in many other languages. So, yes, Joshua the Christ is grieved to death as human being, as the locus. That's another matter. We don't know as locus how he is feeling. So, why did he come to the water, Joshua the Christ? Because he is telling it in his parables. But why? To wake us up, and tell us, you are gods, and you are in deep slumber with a little petty self, living in sufferings, in pain, in sorrow. In the God of separateness, the one fighting the other, and causing harm, the one to the other. That's why he came, and was humanized and incarnated. To wake us up to our divine nature. Yes, nice words, very good words. But there is no way how. How we should be sure about all that? He has shown the way. I am the way, the truth, and life. Which is the way? The way, we have to cover it with our own legs, and we have been given feet just to cover the way. He has shown us the way. By studying the phenomenon of life, which is our present day self, we must try to understand the various levels of selfhood. And see, who are we really? We are standing now. All people are not standing on the seventh step of the ladder of evolution. Why not all human beings on the same level? Because they are not. They don't want to. If they want, they can. Because the infinite beingness and the logos, as the lord of selfhood, is giving us in abundance the mind to use it. That's the ladder, it was said. The mind. And the mind is not the handful of earth which are the brains in the skull. So, everybody has the right to breathe and live as the human body. And everybody has the right to the daily bread which comes from heaven, which is the mind. Do we use the mind? We are all persuaded by Christ to use the mind and know the truth. Know the truth and the truth will set you free. That's clear. So, this ladder is the mind. And every step is to develop the mind.