1989.12.12
December 12, 1989 Stoa Lesson by Daskalos Transcribed by RTT
Opening Prayer
Our Father, who art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory.
God of Life, Love, and Mercy. Enlighten our minds to understand your Truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your Love towards You and towards all our fellow men. Amen.
Daskalos: Yes. Questions to be answered.
Questioner: What is the relationship between a master in the heart, a living master and an etheric master? D: Which is the difference…
Q: Relationship…
D: What do you mean by a master? (Indecipherable answer by questioner)
First of all I don’t like this word at all. Because this word means a kind of superiority from the one fellow to the other. What does it mean, master? To master. Well, we’ll put it another way. Who is a senior brother knowing more? Senior means knowing more and of course is under obligation to help the others who know less. Not a master. A servant. Because master means authority. Speaking from a higher position. That’s why I don’t like the word master. And I never accept it, anyhow. Who can be, as you say, the master of our hearts? Now, from this point of view I’ll accept the word master. Who is ruling in our hearts? Or rather who should be ruling in our hearts as a master? The Logos, Christ. But who is now ruling in the hearts of most men all around us? As really a master who is just dominating over the sense.The villain as we call him. Others call him the devil or others call it our own elementals in the world of separateness. Now in our hearts should be ruling the Logos. Why? Who is really the Logos? Christ. The Light which lighteth every human being coming to the world. That means the principle giving, the living entity in the body is self-consciousness. So the master in our heart should be the Logos.
5’00”
Because afterall we are here and he is our selves, all of us, according to the parable(?). Under this term I accept the word Master. For Him. No
human being should be called a master. A guide, yes. Loving brother? Yes. Servant? Yes. So, this is the Master in our hearts, The Logos. Now the Logos. In what capacity? We have, we are expressing rather a self-consciousness. As a self-consciousness, ourselves, are under the law or the master of certain regulars(?) call him the devil if you like which are our egoism. Our egoism is the sum total of the elementals we project and they come back concerning our person becomes our master. And our torture all the time. Present itself as desires, wishes for [not to say the same things?], torturing us, torturing the present day personality. Now, who is the master in our hearts? Our egoism or the Logos? The Logos, reason. Because the Logos or the expression of the Infinite Beingness is Life and we are Life. The Absolute Beingness is Life. Is what we can call self-conscious reasoning. Then we are expressing the Logos. So now I will put to you the question. Who is the master in our hearts? Which of the two? Because it can be either one of the two. It cannot be both at the same time. So, who should be the master in our hearts? And being the master in our hearts through at-one-ment. At-one-ment. Feeling we are He. Because when you listen you are using Mind. You are expressing His principle as self-consciousness you feel that’s you. You see a flame coming from two candles and you make the mistake that the whole flame is you and you just take the two candles apart you see two flames. Now, distinguish who you are, and who is He in at-one-ment. Just by at-one-ment Christ says that He is all of us. So, what’s our duty? To give our ego-self-consciousness to reason. To Him. To the Truth. He said He is the Truth. So we must not just imagine that the Logos, now, is a person living in a material body
10’00”
but Christ, the Logos, is a God living in the hearts of everyone of us expecting to be recognized. Because He is loving us. So, now we have already the Logos, not exercising any force, but awakening in our hearts for us and a devilish entity which is our egoism. Both are presenting themselves as ourselves by what we call at-one-ment on the lowest plane. That means in the material world. Now, a master, as you said before, you mean guide. Can be any man who knows more than we do and willing to help us or to serve us. Serve Him. By serving us he is serving Him, the Truth. So, not using the word master I accept a personality wishing to help the other fellow men. But don’t call him a master. He will not accept it if he is really a true guide. We know that Jesus Christ or Joshua is directly the incarnation of the Absolute Beingness as Logos. They called him Master and he did not accept it. They called him a [ravuni]? Which means master. He said only one is Master, God. Why are you calling me with this name? I
didn’t come to be served but to serve. You will find it in the Bible. So, if Joshua, the God-Man, didn’t accept this title, why should we accept it? So, guide? Yes. But who is the real guide now? So that we will follow him? Again Joshua is telling us. The lamas, the sheep know the shepherd by his voice, He said, and follow him. By His voice calling them with love. On this [indecipherable]. Now who must be a guide to us? Many people I know: German, Switzerland, England, America, everywhere. They feel the need of following something and they think they will find it when a certain person they want him as their master. Again, I insist not master. Guide. Or loving brother. This one presents himself like that he should not be accepted. What’s the difference now of a guide from what people call a master?
15’00”
If you approach such a guide and he shows himself superior to you, don’t accept him. If he’s a loving brother he can be a guide. So, people from all countries now after visiting many many masters as they call them they come here to us. Definitely I don’t accept this title of a master. Daskalos? Yes I accept it because the word Daskalos means a teacher and you can call Daskalos a teacher in the elementary school. The children call him Daskale. So that isn’t any title showing superiority. I accept it the word Daskale. Good. They are coming here. They want to call me master. I don’t know if I disappoint them to tell them no. This is what i have to offer. The truth as I know it whether you want to accept it, accept it. But I am just wondering why do people want...? Do they feel there a safety by seeing a man near them superior? Considering him just superior? Why? A loving brother is not enough. Do you want a master? Why should we just to make our way slave to his way? Whatever he says should be authentic and we will believe it? And if what he is giving is not the correct teaching just close our eyes and blindly follow him because he adheres to this or the other name and others call him a master? What did Jesus Christ say? Know the Truth and the Truth will liberate you from ignorance. You will know it. The heart will know it by using your own what I call sober thinking. Not by closing your eyes and believing blindly what one called a master will say. During the centuries, past centuries, until now reading the history how many such masters and leaders presented themselves and in the course of time it’s proved that they have not been the real guides to the humanity? So, each one of us has been given from the Infinite Beingness the greatest gift which is not given to the animals to men. As Infinite Beingness it has given us Mind as a super-substance, formless, to use it. Now if you really consider this great gift from God to have just the right to use the Mind as sober thinking, real thinking, is that not enough? And then he gave us the
Mind again in different rate of vibrations as emotions. Just through our heart through him by his guidance to express ourselves as Life.
20’00”
Is that not enough just to call our master in our heart the Logos? Love. Have this in mind. The Logos, Love. What is not Love is devilish. It is the egoism. Which I insist all the time should be killed and by killing your egoism you are freeing yourself from that evil master. By killing evils then you will find yourself because the danger in the egoism is that egoism is presenting himself as yourself while it isn’t. Ego and you find yourself and take from egoism the dress he is bearing that is your name and your emotions and your thoughts and your desires torturing you, you will find that you are not egoism. You are not...that is not yourself. You will sense a difference. So, who can be your master now? Can we be without a master? Some people want to have a master calling him a master to guide them. Well, I insist guide, not master. But your egoism claims this name. Master. How he claims that? Because he is mastering you all the time, torturing you. Torturing the present day personality while the real master we should have in our hearts is loving you. He is calling you his brother though he is the God-Man. That means Christ. Josua. Now I’m a Christian. Why do you think I am a Christian? Because I was born in a Christian family and brought up in that or that way? No. Because I know the truth myself personally. Which is my master? In my heart. He. I’ll give him another name: Love. Because unless He is Love, it isn’t He. It’s an egoism. So, your master in your heart should be Love. But now what’s Love? Egoism will come forward and say “Oh, yes, I will teach you what’s love. This is love.” Because the egoism is presenting itself with many many masks. Is that what we call them? We will say no, take it off. To see you, to know you. Know the truth and the truth will liberate you from ignorance. So, who are you? And you love? To what? Life? Synonym. Love and Life are synonyms. So, I am Christian because I know Joshua reflecting as a human being the Logos. As Love.
25’00”
So, we are on a safe, now, way with the Light, Truth, and Love. Why should we like to have a human being as your master in your heart? Personal worship is devilish. What is written in the Bible? Cursed is he who relies on man. Now do you want a human master? Why? But you are in need of a guide. Somebody to guide us. To teach us how to think. How to love. Don’t call him a master. Call him a loving brother and a guide. That fellow is bones, flesh, blood just like yourself. What makes him different to you? Knowing? Knowing what? What a man can know, learn and know,
everyone can do that because the Absolute Beingness is not giving you that super-substance of the Mind to you only depriving it from the others. Everybody is free of breathing and living and using the Mind in the same way. Are not favorites(?) are there? So the guide should be the one who will teach you the Truth. What’s life. What’s Love. What you are. Now we come to another point: Who you are. He will teach you that. He will teach you the way to find out yourself Who you are. Not to impose to you his opinions but guide you to show you the way how you yourself will find the truth. So, again now we see that we don’t need a human being as master of our heart or as our guide. But our master should be He and reason. He. Who He? Now as we said today in the morning he has put it rightly St John the Evangelist in the first paragraphs of his Gospel: He, the Light which Lighteth every human being coming to the world. That means who makes a human being self-conscious. No animal is self-conscious. Is it any animal self-conscious? Only human beings are self-conscious and they can develop slowly slowly this kind of self-consciousness as super-self-consciousness. That means realizing that they are ego-souls. Gods. This is the Way. All those who can guide you this way will not call themselves masters but your brothers. Brothers. We must give them some qualifications. What kind of brothers and what kind of master they are. But since they are teaching you and showing you love the only guide is love. Call them loving brothers. Loving. Loving you.
30’00”
Now should we love them? Whether either your guide, a real loving brother, loves you he doesn’t if you love him or not. Because God loves everyone of us. He doesn’t care if we love him or we don’t love him. If we love him we don’t give him just any honor because he doesn’t need that, but if we love him when we love God it’s for our benefit again. You are too benefitted attuning ourselves with Him. The same with a brother guide loving, who is loving you. If you love him it is for your again benefit. You attune yourself to that guide. So, the one who is loving is seeking self-benefit. So in the same way a loving guide is not so much interested if you love him or not unless by realizing that he’s benefitting you not having himself an interest in that. Now we will come again to Joshua the Christ. He loved everybody. In all His life he served everybody. To hoist his shoulders what we call the shortcomings, other term I call the word sins, of all the others. Did they love Him? They crucified Him. The time they were crucifying Him, that great Love, who just made a complaint to Judas when he kissed Him with a kiss you are betraying your teacher? Teacher, he didn’t say your master. That was a complaint. Yes. He loved everybody and they have crucified Him.
Did he hate anybody? What did he say, the last words. “Father, forgive them. They didn’t know what they are doing.” Then He passed over to His Father. Where to His Father? Where was His Father? Wasn’t His Father in Him all the time? Yes, because these things have to be known by deep meditation and contemplation.Is that the right word? Yes, to know the Truth. Can you do that? We don’t need any master. You need a guide to show you the way to do it. Now, do we have another kind of master? He mentioned three kinds of master. Master in the heart, the master as you say…
Q: The master who has passed over. The master living and the master who has passed over.
D: Do we need one? It’s all the time YOU who will acquire what I call the faculty or the ability at first of all attunement and then at-one-ment. Now, if you will you are the small ego present day personality self-consciousness if you can call it self-consciousness and you need a master your master must be your inner self, your soul. Now, God the Absolute Beingness, when we are supposed to project our self in time and space, gave us a guide: A metathronios, our Guardian Angel, who is in us, inside us.
35’13”
The Guardian Angel in yourself is not your soul-ego. You will find it out when you proceed and then you analyze what I call your self-superconsciousness. Only then you can just see your Guardian Angel ego-fied with you becoming your self yet having his own identity, archangelic self-superconsciousness. But this of course needs much work and meditation and contemplation. So, is your guardian angel a dictator to you? A master to you? Why should he? Though he could have the right to do that. Yet he is doing it sometime, not as a master, but rather like the one loving rather who will just shake you a little bit up causing in your present day personality what I call stings of consciousness. While the present day personality obeying blindly that devilish egoism of yours is over doing certain things we call evil he is within you, the guardian angel, and also in your soul ego-self and then you have what we call the stings of consciousness. Is that not what we call it? Did you ever think what can that be as stings of consciousness? Constantly do them(?). Since what we do and we overdo it is so pleasing and sweet to the present day personality sometimes. Why have what we call the stings of consciousness? But I tell you we don’t have a master just to present himself say I see and you are a sinner and I am coming to tell you are doing wrong. He is doing it in such a way that you don’t understand his presence, can you? Yet you will find
what is what when you deep meditation you try to start it. The stings of consciousness noting others in you, in your self, when you commit something and you feel the stings of consciousness. Do you need another human being coming to you to tell you you are wrong? You shouldn’t have done that or that or that. Many are coming to me but they are not the master. They are not the guardian brothers and they don’t have the right to do it. Now for the psychotherapist who should try to help certain fellow beings who are in confusion what do I teach them? When you try to persuade others by thought, not by talking, because when you talk and say something it is as if you dictate that to him or to her. Not by talking but by using the mind and direct an elemental loving that person you create in him the thought that he meant the thought.
39’55”
This doesn’t matter why he feels he is doing it or you present that to him but how do you present that to him? Many occasions I have been brought here who are under very very bad habits of drinking, spending their money here and there, coming in the night at home beating their wife, beating their children shouting causing much trouble to the neighbors there. So many things. So we should help them. How? Accusing them? Calling them drunkards? Calling them evil? Evil people? Yes, people are very ready just to get the role of criticizing judge. We said don’t have the right. How you can help them? How? Attune yourself to that fellow. No need to become one but if need be do that also. Not desirable just to attune yourself by at-one-ment with a harlot or with a homosexual or with a criminal. So, no need to reach to that stage but if need be, you do it. I do it. There are dangers of course. If one is not strong enough he shouldn’t do it. Just what I call at-one-ment. Attunement yes. To attune yourself to that fellow you can do it. But what you are supposed to do “Oh you drunkard. Cruel fellow. Beating your wife. Beating your children Shouting. You fool.” In this way you will not be able to do anything good. What you are to do? Attune yourself to him, feel that you are he. This means love. Loving him. I had many protesting say “Oh Daskale. Shall I be one with that criminal? With that liar? WIth that thief? With that drunkard?” When you are a really loving brother and a loving guide, you have to do it. So at night when that fellow is asleep that’s the time he will receive your message no matter how far away you are from that fellow. It might be on the other side of the planet. Thoughts are going just like that[...] So what you do? You bring that fellow in your mind and you take his place. And say Look here. Were I in your place I could not do that for this and this and this reason to explain. Were I in your place should not have behaved in that way for this and this and this
reason. Explain. Make him see things as you see them. Then leave him alone. You will be successful because he will not do it because he feels that he should not do it. And that this is not imposed by anybody else on him. Now, either imposed by anybody or him or not it isn’t. It’s a suggestion. It’s up to him to take it or not. We have success. Why? Because in every human being when the egoism, the devilish egoism, is asleep he takes the suggestions and he has the right to use the mind as reason.
45’12”
So you must not just think that all other human beings are bad and cannot reason. So have that in your mind, help that brother or that sister. Not coming as a judge but come as a loving brother and guide. Then you have just the chance of seeing success and you are not doing anything to him. He receives the suggestion and he works on it and he is really benefitted by getting his own decisions and experiences. So, this is the real work of a real psychotherapist working on a higher plane. Not only in the material plane. So, come to the lesson. No one needs any master and the one who is calling himself a master, he is under a devilish egoism. The one who wants others to recognize him as a master he has a false self-adoration. Why should we permit others to adore us? That is slavery. Not to a fellow but to a stupid idea of superiority.
47’24” End of Part A
Part B
Have in mind certain fellows from the East calling themselves masters in their language, of course. Many Germans, Swiss, and others go to them. I said I will not mention names. They come to me. When they go to these people they are instructed by certain followers of these people to kneel before them and touch with their hands their feet. They are coming to me and they try to do the same, and I say no, get up. Why are you doing that? “But that master accepts that.” Of course, I keep silent. I don’t want to say anything. Yes, alright but I don’t like you to do it. I am a human being just like you. You came here. What I have to tell you I will do it. I don’t need that. Many many times even Swiss and Germans are coming they try to do that because they have done it to [...] Some of them coming adoring these personalities and believe me they enjoy it. That’s self-adoration and adoration by the others. So, one of these fellows came to me, he’s adoring his master. Sent to me by him bringing me his photo with dedication. To asking me what’s my opinion about his master. Said, that’s your idea of asking me or you’re sent by that fellow? He told me “Sir, what is [...]” But I
know, I said. I can get it from your mind. I tell you I said that he sent you with sending me his compliments and his photo with dedication. He asked will you give me one to take it to him. I said, no, I am not going to give you any photo of mine to send it to him. But he will put it in a place and say call you his brother. I don’t want him to call me his brother. Says “Why?” Because I don’t like any kind of self-adoration. And I do not accept it. But alright. Now I tell you, I told him, yes. He is well advanced I said. In spiritual upliftment there is huge steps yet to go up. But he’s panting and he cannot go further. You know why? Why? Because he has on his back I said a very very heavy weight. And suggest him that he should take it away. Throw it away and then free he will go forward. He has a heavy weight on his shoulders. Yes. What’s that? Course I told the name of the master. Seems like he understood what I mean. Yes of course he didn’t need that heavy weight on his shoulder. He needed his treasures. He shouldn’t carry them any further. I am sure I didn’t please this master but I believe that I have helped him.
4’53”
So, those calling themselves masters and imposing to the others that the adoration for themselves, they are slaves of an opinion about their self. Their personality in time and space. So, you don’t need any master. Your master will be the truth. Everyone has the right to use the mind as reason to know the truth. So, this is the safest way of spiritual upliftment. You cannot go carrying with you a master. Maybe he is too heavy for people. And for himself it is very heavy. So, you got the answer. You don’t need any master. You need a loving guide or a loving brother. You don’t need just to impose his opinions and expect you to do it without using your reason.
D:Yes. Loudly please.
Q: Is homosexuality in human...against [...scripture?]
A: On many occasions I’ve had just this question. On many many occasions I’ve had this question. What do you mean by homosexuality, first of all? Well, the passion of having contact with a fellow being of your own sex? A man with a man. A woman with a woman. A man, or usually a man with a woman is not homosexuality but heterosexuality. Or a woman with a woman. Well, really I have studied this matter seeing people all around me and having many many kinds of psychoanalysis. Now, homosexuality is the action or the supposed reason behind it. I have put the questions of many homosexuals. When I ask homosexual [...] what is after all this relation of
yours? They say love. I said don’t insult God. Love is God. It isn’t love. Because they protest, they put me the question another way. Can a man another man? Very much. Or a woman love another woman? Very much. When Christ said love your neighbor as you love yourself he didn’t make any definition on sex. Did he? Our fellow men is a man or a woman. Can they told me if you call it natural a fellow love more than one woman? Definitely. Every woman is a fellow man in the great [Greek language] Love your fellow man just like yourself. I said yes but now we must separate things. What does it mean love? Do you think that homosexuals love the one another, the other one? Or is it they’re slaves to a passion?
10’00”
Of a passion? Of an ignorance and a stupidity. Now, two women together. I call that stupid. They can love the one the other without caring about the human body. So, we must separate love from anything else. Now, put two men together and that’s a more serious thing than say, the relations between two women. More serious thing because it is really an action. With what we suppose organ or center of energy in the etheric double and organ corresponding to our material body we can love and we love? By the heart. Not by the genital organs. So I could not call that love. Of course, how did this homosexuality have started? From all times the awakening of the sexual impulse and they don’t find the right way. And it happens between young people, boys doing that, believing that they love each other. They believed it. But they come in a state to realize that that wasn’t necessary. Because they could embrace each other, even kiss each other, caress each other, take care the one for the other and that’s love. No need to have we call sexual intercourse. Now we take it from a reasonable point of view. What’s the penis of a man? Maybe the greatest gift given to a human being by the infinite beingness. What’s infinite beingness? Life. With that organ a man becomes co-creator with his creator bringing life with a woman. The right woman. So, the sexual intercourse is the means of giving life to a human being. This is a fact. This is the truth. Nobody can deny it. When a man and a woman have the sexual intercourse, of course they please themselves. They think they are under that condition. They don’t know what would be the outcome of their action. Yet, maybe, and with the birth of a child, a male or a female child. So, the genital organs of a man and of a woman are the seat of life. The greatest gift given by the Absolute Beingness to humans down here. Woman. In India I heard that when a pregnant is going around, even the maharaja going there has just to bow in front of her because she is the seat of creation. That’s a very very good habit. So, the holiest action which brought us into life in the material plane
and brings into life our children, had been in very very bad use.
15’05”
Is that evil? Is that a crime? I don’t want to see that. It is stupidity. Ignorance. It’s bad use of the greatest gift given by the Absolute Beingness. Now, love. Can a man, a boy, love another boy? Yes. When I was at school I had people I loved them very much. They loved me very much but that was not necessary to use any other part of our body than our heart. They kissed me. A kiss is a sign of love. Embracing sometimes? Yes it is the exchange of the ether, the etheric double, of two people strengthening both. Now if we study this from this point of view we will understand what is the truth under it. In love there is an exchange between the two people. Part of their etheric double, call it energy, but this can be done with shaking of hands, a caress, a kiss, an embrace which comes that embrace naturally. Not having any other reason. You see boys they are found stroking the other, embracing each other, playing. That’s good. That’s love. Now we must understand what is love and what is not love and to make the mistake to think that it is love. Now put it more natural way of a man and a woman, or a husband and a wife if there is not love between these two people even if they have been married by the church coming into sexual say intercourse, it’s prostitution because it is not an action to be judged but the motives behind each action. Now again you have two homosexuals. I had two who came to me the one having stings of consciousness. They got the habit from school. They came to me and I told them come here. With that organ you become co-creator with God. That thing I said the male organ just like the chalice. It is the seat of life. Would you like, I said, to get the chalice from the altar and put it in a toilet basin full I said of dirty things. Put it there? He said no! Then what you are doing? What you are doing? That’s what you are doing. It isn’t its place there in the basin of a toilet. Yes sir we understand now. And they gave it up because I call that the sin to the Holy Spirit. It is mentioned also in the Bible. Now, did this bad habit, I call it bad habit, exist in all times? Yes. In all the nations of the world. Even in the Bible you find this bad practice was done in the Bible by David and Jonathan. You read it in the Bible. And Saul accusing his son he told him sharing the bed of my enemy.
20’00”
Was that allowed in all times? In ancient Greece, in ancient Egypt, in India, in all parts of the world. Yes it was allowed. Why? Just to excuse a bad habit. But they should overcome all that by reason. And not by imposing the ideas on others that this is wrong and this is not wrong. We must show them why this is wrong and if they understand it then they behave
accordingly. Now, is homosexuality between two men, two male persons, right or wrong? It’s wrong because if I have stated what I have stated before the male organ is the chalice, the life bearing means and it shouldn’t be used in a stupid and dirty way. Did I satisfy you?
Q: I’d like you to talk some more about love between a man and a woman and about marriage and about two people finding each other. I mean do you think that when a man meets a woman he finds attractive in some deep sort of way and that that [...] of past lives or do you think that there are many people that you can meet? What do you think?
D: I think why God has made oblivion of past incarnations? Forgetfulness of past incarnations. Not to return to the past faults. Yes, maybe they meet in this incarnation a man with a woman who was his wife in past incarnation and now he is married to another woman. Now are new circumstances. Do you think that it would be right to have sexual intercourse because they have the impulse and because some fellow might tell him she was his wife? He has the right now to do it now? I said before that a man can love many many women. In which way? His wife as his wife and all other women in his age as his sisters. One is not going with his sister but loves his sister. And all women advanced in age as his mothers. As his mother. He has many mothers. And love all men as his brothers. And all grownups as being his father. When Christ said he who believes in me I will give him many sisters, brothers, and fathers. Didn’t he say that? What did he mean? Come to that state [...] feeling one with him then you feel all around you many people as your sons, brothers, and fathers and all women around you as your daughters, sisters, and mothers. It’s what he meant in the Bible. He who believes in me I shall give him many children, fathers, and mothers. They did not understand the sayings of Christ in the Bible. So of course you will know how many women in my age I love them now? They love me?
25’00”
Many. But how? Now I have some people who had been in past lives my daughters. My mothers. And I know them and they know me and they remember. But we take now the present circumstances in time and space. Now I had a lady girl when we were at school. She loved me very much and I loved her very much. When together when we were very very young. When I was sick she would sit by my side, read me stories, bring me flowers, kissing me, kissing her. One day her mother and my mother said, “Do you see how your some loves my daughter?” “Yes. Your daughter is sixteen and my son is seventeen. Shall we propose them to get engaged?” My mother told me, ‘Look her you love...daughter?” I said very very much.
“I know you do. And she loves you.” Yes. “What do you say…?” I said no she is my sister. Do not come now to think of anything else being my sister. Because they talked to her and the same thing her mother: “Do you love Stelios?” “Yes, very much. Don’t you know it?” “Yes. What about having him as your fiance and later as your husband?” She said, “No, he is my brother.” Now I got married. Just like Zora(?) I had many many other girls, I loved them and they loved me. When Zora(?) got married I loved her husband in the same way I loved her and he knew it. She knew it. When I got sick she told him I go to Stelios because he is in need of me. He said yes please do. When I finish on this I will come see him also. They would come there. What I would do? Just embracing and kissing them both. Then when they called children I was having them on my knees as if they were my own children. This is love but love doesn’t mean sexual intercourse.
Q: If we talk about marriage do you think there is such a thing as true love?
A: In marriage it’s a different thing if it is the proper marriage. And not out of interests.
Q: Okay. This is proper marriage which we are talking about. Is this something which a man and a woman may find with each other? One man for one woman or one woman for one man that they will find the one? In other words only a small number of chances that they will connect with the right person? A: Look here. No matter if one is a man or a woman. They should not be slaves of impulses and stupid ideas but use reason. When they use reason, then a marriage starts. Otherwise there are divorces, fighting, and making other human beings, the children, miserable. It is something we see all around us in all places now. So it is because a man or a woman now are under stupid ideas. Which is the worst of all? A woman especially Cyprus I don’t know in other countries thinks that getting married she should control her husband. Where you go. What you do. How you speak, do this or that. Of course the husband will not tolerate it. A husband marrying a women he expects to have a servant and a slave. He will order. She will not obey in this and that and what think happen?
30’03”
Even beating each other, breaking things. Why? It is because they made a marriage out of their own calculations and interests. I don’t know if this happens also in other countries. (MAN: All of them.) What is the result? They don’t use reason and they are slaves of stupid ideas and of a devilish egoism, both of them. The one having in its mind to dominate over the
other. That’s why there is so much misery and pain in our societies now. Sexual intercourse is not binding two people. If that was the sexual intercourse we wouldn’t have this trouble all the time in the society. So that means nothing in reality but just a self for a moment satisfaction and as people call it a need. Which I don’t think it is a need at all. So, when man will separate what you call sexual intercourse from love and then the sexual intercourse will become a duty to the creator. Yes, in this case he can give even by that his love...one and no more.
Q: He will give it to one woman. Can it be to any woman? In other words or is there a true love…
A: There should be an understanding between them. That means correlation with their etheric doubles or liking each other. Feeling that they can love each other. Love each other. They can love each other. What’s love now? Now I mean about sexual love now. Love in a family. It is something you have to make it grow. At the beginning from understanding what is mutual duties, responsibilities, and acknowledging the service of the other partner. The woman the duties of her husband. And the husband the woman and then having the satisfaction that they are both right in their way of living and in the course of years it will become what you call love. Because what they call love at the beginning is just an attraction. That’s not love. Now, I see so many cases day and night all around me reconciling people. Even stopping divorces. How do I do it? By opening their eyes and waking them up in the reality. What you are now? What you making in the society? You brought children. You have several responsibilities. You have to sacrifice your egoism and all that and believe me I succeed always. There are many many people who were in the ecclesiastical court for divorce, quarreling, breaking things, doing this and that. Now they are members of the circles and very happy family knowing their duties and responsibilities towards God and towards Life. Towards the family because a family is a sacred thing in life. And not just a kind of partnership. Yes.
Q: If I could just finish now...do you think that some people are made for each other? You talk about (Daskalos: What does it mean that?) Do you think that some people are made for each other or do you think that all marriages…
35’05”
D: What do you mean the one is made for the other? Coinciding their vibrations psychically? It can be with many. Not only with our fellow this coincidence in vibrations psychically. But it doesn’t mean that we will take that and then to the one with the one woman and to more...with the other and with the other. Above impulses should be reason. Reasoning. Because when we start our lessons in our circles just studying our emotions and our thoughts and our way of life through what we call introspection we know the truth now. What are the emotions? What’s the nature of emotions? What is the nature of desires? What is the nature of thought/desires and desires creating thoughts? So after meditation, contemplation, and reasoning above all, you know the nature of everything and then you know what is what. Now, suppose two people felt that impulse, shall we call it impulse?, of believing that the one is made for the other. They get married. Do you think that this marriage can stay long? I have known such cases many…
End
37’05”