1989.11.13
November 13, 1989 Part A Stoa Lesson by Daskalos
Now. We will talk about Archangelology. What are the Archangels, and what is God. What is the Absolute Beingness. What we will hear now is not from any books, because no books have ever written anything about the Archangels. Why? Because people didn’t have direct knowledge on this subject.
They mentioned, in the books, the scriptures, about the Archangels, but no one ever said anything about these Archangels. Or even the Angels. They mention in the books, the Holy Scriptures, about God, but no one described anything about this Infinite Beingness.
Now, is it because they didn’t dare do it? Maybe. But at least they could say something, at least to speak about the qualities of God, of the Archangels, and of our Spirit Ego. Who’s God? So, to speak about these things is very difficult. Very very difficult. But again to keep silent, you must be stupid. If I asked somebody to describe the Sun, what can one know about the Sun? You can imagine what’s the Sun. And our science knows that our Sun is a heavenly body, burning, emanating heat and light. And they say that it is a million times bigger than the planet earth. What can we know of the sun, not being scientists and having our telescopes? And the means just to detect the sun? We can see it rising, just like a disk, giving us the heat, keeping us warm, and giving us the light. At least we can know that. We can feel the heat of the sun.
If somebody will describe us, what is the sun? Saying that yes, it’s a fiery disk rising in the sky and we can get warm, it’s giving us light… he’s right, yet not absolutely right, because the sun is a billion times bigger than the planet earth, and if the earth, relatively speaking is like a little marble the little children are playing with, the sun is maybe the size of this building. Anyhow, we can’t describe the sun, even by saying the sun is a fiery disk
just like a plate, rising in the sky, giving us light and heat.
5’00”
So far, we can speak about the Sun. Likewise about the Infinite Beingness. What can we know about the Infinite Beingness? Just having the same thing in mind, we can speak about the Infinite Beingness. But we must be giving something accurate. Of course I say the truth in saying the sun is giving us heat and light. The dimensions, we should not attempt it. What can we say about the Absolute Beingness? In its self-abundance, avtakia? [mofed?] very very little, but to keep silent, it will be stupid. I must say something. I must try to understand something about the Absolute Beingness and its expression in what we call Infinite Beingness will to express itself in itself and the Logos and as the Holy Spirit.
At least we can know something. Logos means expression. Holy Spirit, again, expression, dynamically, yes. What can we know, as human beings, about the Infinite Beingness? That Infinite Beingness and the Logos and the Holy Spirit is the total Wisdom, total Love, and Total force or power. These three things we can understand by the symbol of a triangle. You can see it in the symbol of Life, there. You see the triangle. Inside the triangle, you see a cross. What’s the cross, now? Is that the Christian symbol of sacrifice? It is that also, but for us, on the symbol of Life, it means something else. It is the balancing of the four elements. The upper part of the cross is the etheric or mental side, which is the ether vitality. The one side, left or right - doesn’t matter - one side is water, the other side is fire. The lower part of the cross is the material plane. So for us the cross means also the four elements and balancing the four elements.
We are sure of the four elements. We have them in the material plane. So. Who are the masters or the Lords of these elements? Can we know? Of course we can.
The Lord of the Vitality, you may call it in the human body ‘ectoplasm’, or vitality, etheric vitality, is Raphael. Its color is violet. You see it there on the symbol of life.
The red color… blood red color, is fire. And the Lord of Fire
10’00”
and light, is Michael.
The bluish color with all its tints, its space, near the earth, round the earth, air and water. The element of water is governed by Gabriel.
The matter, the material world, is governed by a secondary Archangel - if we can call him an Archangel - which is Shamble. I think its very little we are allowed to say about Shamael, because there should not be any connection between human beings and Shamael, if not being masters. He’s the Lord of Separatedness. People may call him the Devil, but that isn’t true. It’s a necessary law for the creation.
Now, what’s a human being? What can a human being be? When we say human being, what must we mean? The present day personality? The Soul-Ego Self? Or the Spirit-Ego-Self? And the three, as long as a man is living in a material body, it’s one Ego… with three expressions. Now, as an Ego, your I-ness. Is he god? Yes. Definitely. The Ego is god. As Ego-Spirit, as an Ego-Soul and as the shadow of the Ego, again Ego which is constantly changing. As a material body, as a psychical body, and as a mental body. These three together are making what you call the present day personality. But the present day personality is these three bodies with their direct etheric doubles plus the Soul-Ego is making what we call the Permanent personality, which will be saved. It is the mortal part which will become immortal and the perishable one which will become imperishable. Perishable means in constant change.
As material body, as a psychical body - that means the body of the emotions - and as the noetical, or noetic, or mental body as we call it, the body of thoughts.
So, we see now the human being as a being, eternal, what and does and existing entity - now I’m using a different word - the entity, which is the present day personality plus the permanent personality. Which will become immortal, because it is immortal in a sense but in constant change, it gives the idea of not being immortal.
15’00”
Its imperishable, yet, it seems to be perishable since we are in that illusion
we call time… I said and I repeat this time “Is time illusion?” And under this illusion, the imperishable seems to be perishable. And the mortal seems to be.. or rather the immortal seems to be mortal, because we see it in time as change. Well I give an example.
When we come to study ourselves and our behavior rather, as a present day personality every night, before sleeping. And you bring in the surface of the subconsciousness into what we call consciousness, an event that happened during the day. You bring it up. So now you see time in a different way. You can see the event, succession of events, just as everything happened. Now in what kind of time, now, you are seeing things? You can see them very very slowly or very very quickly. Now have time in other dimensions. People are using it without trying to study these things.
So, you bring to the surface of the memory, again I say it time, space… all the events have happened in the sense of space - a street, or an office, a house - now, you bring again all those things… in which street now you are in, just studying it? You’re in another dimension. So what do you say for this thing you are doing now? Is that intelligence, can you call it intelligence? The animals cannot do it. Using the mind. Bringing the elementals in the surface - now you understand it after we gave the lesson about the subconsciousness and the elementals. Yes, so the elementals are living and you can bring them on the surface any time you like and see them, and study them, and just judge your behavior and see what influence these elementals had on you during the hours you are now studying by remembering them.
By now who gets the conclusions? Who gets the decisions now how to behave, next day? The ‘ukuru’ the present day personality of that moment. What is now the so-called present personality before some hours? It has changed. You say, ‘but that’s me’. No, that’s not you. You are now the one who remembers that personality of yours before some hours and how that personality - oh never mind and you say ‘that’s me’ - behaved. You now are judging, studying, that behavior of yours. That time you call ‘past’. You have been a present moment personality. What are you now, in relation to that which is past? That is the perishable which will become imperishable. That means, all that elementals of yours, and the sum total of the elementals
20’00”
forming it, that you are calling ‘you’, as an intelligence, as consciousness, is what we call the perishable which in a sense is imperishable. But because it is under constant change, you call it perishable. Which means nothing of you is lost.
Everything is recorded in the cosmic consciousness. Everything that you have lived, is living. Just is a matter of bringing it to the surface. Now something I tell you, which very few know. The past incarnations. You can contact them in the cosmic consciousness. What is a past incarnation? From the moment of the conception, until the moment of passing over, inside the circle of possibilities and probabilities, because maybe the circle of probabilities will not be the same as the circle of possibilities. Maybe you have passed over prematurely. Yet you’ll contact, in the cosmic consciousness, an elemental, the sum total of elementals from that life, you call that the present day personality, now past personality.
Now if you contact that elemental, is that elemental living? Yes, it’s living because it’s composed of MIND and MIND is not a dead substance, but life itself. So all our elementals are living, all the elementals we are calling past lives now are living in the cosmic consciousness. They live their own life, as we live now, the double life. They live a single life, as the life of the elemental. Now, we are living a double life… the life of the elemental of our present day personality, a name. Way of feeling and thinking. And yet living as Ego-Souls. This you will realize, after you become the master of the emotions and the thoughts.
But again now. What is composed of a personality? Because we thought that the Infinite Beingness has its plurality. We have our plurality, and as intelligent beings and entities existing, and as bodies… have the material body. You have in it billions of blood cells. Billions of cells… other kinds of cells. And all those are composing what we call the various organs. The material body.. and if you study the material body you are calling the microcosm, its just the same as the macrocosm. Also this is true for our psychical body and our mental body and the etheric doubles. That’s true.
So the Researcher after truth has much work to do, to investigate the truth. The relative truth.
25’00”
from his own entity and being. Two different things now. I said in the morning that we are gods, our Spirit-Ego-Self and Soul-Ego-Self immortal, eternal, unchanging. And we exist now as an entity as a human being. Is the Soul-Ego a human being? Of course not.
Now we come again to the scriptures. Many are reading the Old Testament. They pass it just like that without just daring to think over all these things. God said. Said. Expression. Did he say anything in words? Unnecessarily. The expression is not only words or sounds. Thoughts are expressions. And God said ‘Let their be light’. And light was presented. What is now, light? And what is darkness? We enter in the world of the opposites. What we call darkness is a misconception. In the Infinite Beingness, there is not such a thing as darkness. Because God is light. And the Logos is light. In the creative how-to-do we say. I say that in Greek. Phos y phodos theanalytenon exae ova litte ou. Can you say the [gret] in the German language? We are calling God ‘light’. And we call Christ ‘light from light’.
So what’s light? [some German comments ] God is ‘licht’. But what a light, is that light? And this a-light. But that’s not all. Because when we say ‘light’, we mean much more than the sun.
Is light visible? No. Yet it’s light. Even the sunlight traveling in space is not visible. You cannot see light unless it strikes on a solid thing just like a star and is reflected to you. And even so, you don’t see the light you see the star, you see the reflection. When you see in the sky at night, it’s dark. The light is traveling in space, yet we cannot see it unless it strikes on a surface and is reflected. So we can see what we say like when that thing as light emanates from a material object, a sun, or is reflected to another celestial body and returns to us. We cannot see light, we can see the reflection of light.
We cannot see the Infinite Beingness but we can see its reflection. We cannot see life but we can see the living forms. That’s why they call ‘light from light’. What’s life now? The Infinite Beingness.
What is life in us, as phenomena of life? Billions of billions all around us. So we can detect the Infinite Beingness, Life, being reflected in what we call
living forms all around us. In the creation. We can see in what
30’00”
we call the worlds of various dimensions. The heavens. The seven heavens. So researchers after Truth should use his intelligence to pierce to the truth. Concerning what? Himself as a living entity as a human being and his eternal beingness. Soul and Ego-Spirit. This should be the research after the truth. And how? We shall study this self of ours. Starting from the bottom, from the material body, from the material plane. And knowing what we are so that we’ll know later who we are. What we are as an entity in the world of the opposites, of the material plane. A most wisely built up body. Supervised by whom?
We are human, we are becoming a man, obey the idea of man, the heavenly man. Even Christ as Jesus as Joshua called himself the Son of Man.
So, what are we as human beings? As say, an entity? Living in a material body, a psychical body, in a mental or noetical body. That is our present day personality. What of? A composite entity, not being. Now what to do, how it is, so that we’ll step in the Archangelology. Any human being as an Ego-Spirit, is an Archangel, belonging in the order of the Authorities. It’s a kind of order of the Archangels.
So, it says in the Holy Scriptures “and God said, Let us create Man to our likeness and image.” To whom he said that? To the Holy Archangels. He said that to its plurality. Now, if you meet an Archangel, any Archangel of any order and ask him ‘what are you?’ He will give you those vibrations which will be translated by you as ‘God’. And he is right. Archangels are Gods. But Gods we are also as Spirit-Ego-Self. Because I said every human being is an Archangel.
Now, which is the difference between us and the Archangels? We have billions… beyond number… of Michaels. Billions of Gabriels. Billions of Raphaels. Billions of Archangels of any other order. The same way, we have billions of human beings. With us there is a difference. Knowing an Archangel of fire and light as Michael you’ll know every Michael. Because their system
35’00”
… the churches call it a system, Angelo do systema getropo Angeles. So one Michael is all Michaels, according to the vibrations and being lords of light and fire. All Gabriels are one, yet there are billions of Gabriels. All Raphaels are one, though there are billions of Raphaels.
When the Infinite Beingness said “Let us create Man according to our likeness and image”, he didn’t mean to create one man, one human being, but the human race. So each man in his body, psychical body, noetical body, is one Michael, one Gabriel, one Raphael, one Uriel. Yet attuned to with all of its order. There is not the law of separateness in the Archangelic orders. While for the human being, not two men as present personalities are the same, because we are living in the world of the separateness.
As human beings, this is maybe what the church is calling ‘the fall of man’.
Now. Time and Space. It is an illusion that human beings as entities understand. But it does not exist in reality. Do Archangels of any order know what is time? They will say now, and after some time you tell him ‘what is time now?’ What’s that ’now?’ Says ‘now’. [ ] what is the Eternal Now. So they cannot understand what is past, present and future. They know the eternal now. Human beings can know what is eternity by knowing what is time. That’s the ring that the Father gave to the Prodigal Son. Returning back. A ring, which is the symbol of eternity. Because Infinite Beingness is motion. As long as there is motion there is no beginning there is no end.
Is the human being or the human Archangel returning privileged? I say ‘yes’. Of course he is. This is what really makes him realize that he belongs to the order of the Archangels we call Authorities. [ ]
So, let us see the descent of man into matter.
We said, ‘matter is Mind, solid’. Everything is MIND. So when an Archangel, there orders of the Authorities, feels the desire, which is the desire maybe of the Infinite Beingness, to project for incarnation
40’00”
he’s definitely accompanied by a Metathronios. An Archangel of the Thrones. Why? Who knows. Who can know. Even the Metathronios doesn’t know why. But accompanied the Metathronios is Egofied - becomes one - with that, so we have they call it, two sides. The one side, say with the head, is the Metathronios. The other side, showing the value, is the present day personality. A different value, each coin. The clean side is the Metathronios. The call it dirty side which has to be cleaned, is the present day personality. Now, on the coin, what is our Ego-Spirit Self and our Soul-Self? The Coin. The whole coin.
When an Ego-Spirit of the Authorities, accompanied by a Metathronios, starts, then we hear the words of the Infinite Beingness, “Let us create Man to our own likeness and image.” I said, ‘To whom he said that?’ To Michaels, Raphaels, Gabriels, Uriels, and then one from each order, starts building the new entities Mental body. At the same time the psychical body, the material body. In time… which time?… now they are working in the sense of time, but they don’t understand it. What they do superconsciously in the eternal now. That means constant work on the circle of possibilities. So the Holy Archangels are the circle of the possibilities for the Human Race. The circles, many many circles, on one circle of possibilities. One circle of possibilities for each human being. Many circles of probabilities concerning every one of us. Probabilities.
You may not give the whole round of the circle. You may step out at any point. The law of possibilities is unchangeable, constant and that’s in what we call total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness. Everything is in the Infinite Beingness.
The Absolute Ruler is the Infinite Beingness. The mind, in our head, decision is the Infinite Beingness. The two hands obeying the orders are the Christo Logos and the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels.
What is Michael giving to the Human body? The work. The work of the Archangel Michael, Gabriel and Raphael is giving us the red, warm blood. Its their work. Now, we have the skeleton, the bones. Different kinds of atoms. Those are created most wisely by the orders of the balancer, that’s Uriel, by Shamael, the Lord of the Earth, because the body is just like stone. It’s material.
45’00”
But then we have, in the human body, the various organs, composition of the elements… heat, light, water, call it magnetism… energy, just to keep a human body working, living in good health. Who is just working to build a human body? Definitely the Archangels. In us, a Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, a Uriel, there are still other workers in it, the Cherubs and the Seraphs… and many many others.
How do I know it? Reading it in books? No… by coming in contact with them, and knowing them directly. Maybe other masters did not dare to reveal these things. I don’t see the reason why Johannon will not speak openly. Why not? It’s time that people should know the whole truth.
Know the truth and it will liberate you from ignorance.
[end of recording]