1989.10.05 (part 6) also labeled as 1989.10.17
Daskalos-October 5. 1989
Our Father Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory, forever.
God of Love and Life and Mercy, enlighten our minds to know the truth, fill our hearts with your love, to love you, and love our fellows. Amen.
Life, as a phenomena, is in need of using the MIND, but life, as the Absolute Beingness, and of course found in-most nature, innermost nature, is not in need of the MIND. So Life cannot be understood by human beings living as phenomena of life. What’s a phenomenon of life? All around us? A form, motion, and expression. These are the phenomena of life. Said all around us. When I say ‘all phenomena of life’, I don’t mean only the human beings. The trees are phenomena of life, the animals are phenomena of life, and the human beings on the planet are phenomena of life. Also, as phenomena of life, living forms in the psychical world and in the mental world, the noetical world.
Phenomena of life. The characteristic of the phenomena of life is the form. The human form. The form of all things… animals, the trees.
So. As a phenomena of life, it is necessary to have the form. And we said the form, any form, is the result of a certain idea. And we spoke about the world of ideas. Ideas, causes, laws. We said, one idea can project billions of forms. Phenomena in forms. What do we mean ‘project billions of living forms?’ Because the idea has the form in it to be projected. So an idea is not something abstract, but it is something very concrete not visible to the material eyes.
So, the cause projecting forms if the source in which you can read the Wisdom, the Total Wisdom of the Infinite Beingness.
Now, we spoke in a lesson about the Total Wisdom of the Infinite Beingness,
05’00”
Total Love, and Total Force, Energy, Might… call it whatever you like. How [ ] we can be sure of that Total Wisdom? And how can we comprehend that the forms exist and are? Two different states… exist - to project forms, the ideas and are - eternally in the Absolute Wisdom of God. We said ‘A form is because the law in the eternal now.’ Eternal now. And the forms are projected by the idea, now, what we call time and space. Now what’s space, as regards the forms? There are no space. Because the forms are everywhere. Laws, causes, the source from which all existing things are flowing. Flowing. Now flowing means continue flowing. And to have this conception we must have the idea now of time and space.
So the idea is, and the forms exist. Which forms exist? The forms which will dress the MIND to become now as living forms. Who will dress again, what we call the desire to exist, and then the material form. So, a form to become a phenomenon of life, living form, must definitely have as its beingness inside it, the Absolute Beingness. And express all the qualities of the Infinite Beingness in the Eternal Now, but now to develop them in time and space… which is motion.
So motion is necessary for the expression of life in the forms. In the living forms. Can you understand life without motion? It’s impossible. So, to study life and know what’s life, you must first of all know what’s motion, vibrations, called ‘black rad’ if you like. Because this has the characteristics of the phenomena of life. In, what we call, the material, the psychical, and the noetical forms.
Now, we take a human being, we said that a human being is a being in the Absolute Beingness, eternal. God. Is and exists, now, as a Soul Self-consciousness. Now what do we mean by ‘self-consciousness?’ What we must mean by the term ‘self-consciousness’
10’00”
expressing the multiplicity of the Infinite Beingness as a separate being. This is what gives to the phenomena of life the self-consciousness. Now is
the Absolute Being not self-conscious? Yes, in an absolute way, we cannot complicate, definitely. But we said that the Absolute Beingness is in its multiplicity. Yet, what? Absolute Beings. And we give an example of that. We have millions of blood cells in our bodies, yet we are we one individual, one human body. In the same way, the Absolute Beingness IS, and there are, in the Absolute Beingness, the beings to compose its multiplicity. So we have only one God, Infinite Beingness.
What we’ll see will be the expressions of this Infinite Beingness in Itself. There is not any space Infinite Beingness is not. So, the Infinite Beingness projects the living forms, where? In itself. We cannot be anywhere where the Infinite Beingness IS NOT. But now, we exist. And the Infinite Beingness exists now, as the Logos, and as the Holy Spirit. We see now two definite expressions of the Infinite Beingness. Definite expressions. Are there not more? Yes, but human beings cannot understand with their intelligence more than these two expressions. There are many, many, many more, in these two expression.
And we said the all expression is the Logos. Logos means expression in the Greek language. And the other expression is the Holy Spirit. And now, are the Holy Spirit and the Logos two different Gods from the Infinite Beingness? No. The Infinite Beingness on the Symbol of Life, is that triangle, in which there are three triangles, but yet one triangle. Symmetric triangles, and the three.
So, the upper triangle is what I call the Infinite Beingness in Itself. So the other two triangles forming the one triangle, is the Logos and the Holy Spirit. Yet its one triangle. So we don’t believe in three Gods. We believe in One God, and we say ‘the Trinity’. Yes but us, the Trinity is now, and exists. Man is also the same. The Man expresses the trinity. Our eternal, in the eternal now, self-consciousness, spirit self consciousness.
15’00”
is ‘god within us’, our Real Self. I said in the Eternal Now, and now as the Infinite Beingness expresses itself as the Logos and as the Holy Spirit, we express ourselves as a Soul and as a Personality. We express ourselves as a trinity. Now expressing ourselves as a trinity, we express a self-consciousness, which means and Ego, and I-ness. I don’t know if we have any different, more accurate term. So, as above, so below. As the
macrocosm, so the microcosm.
So, we are gods, as Ego Spirit Self consciousnesses. You are again gods as Soul self-consciousnesses. But what are we as a Permanent Personality and a Present Day Personality? As A personality. Are we gods? No. We are not. We are a phenomenon of life. Phenomenon of life. Since we are a phenomenon of life, it means that we express life. Yes, definitely. But how to understand that? As a phenomenon of life, you are expressing our two other natures. So, the Ego is god. Must have this in your mind. If you ask me now, ‘are you god?’ God? No. A god? yes. But not God as the Absolute Beingness. You are god, in what sense? As a human being, male or female? No. As an Ego, yes. Even with small, very small, letters. As an Ego, I-ness, yes I am god. But not as a phenomenon of life, in the sense of time and space. In reality, we are the likeness of the Infinite Beingness. The Infinite Beingness said, ‘let us create Man to our likeness and Image.’ Likeness and Image in what sense? From the one side as Logoic beings, express ourselves as a self-consciousness. But from the other sense, to express ourselves as consciousnesses.
What’s now the difference between consciousness and self-consciousness? To express ourselves Logoically or Holy Spiritually. We are both. Logoic and Holy Spiritual. How is that? This is something that you must think, now, deeply.
20’00”
I am an Ego. With small letters, with capital letters, and with Golden letters. But still an Ego. As an Ego, I express a self-consciousness. And also, a kind of different consciousness. Holy Spiritual.
As a self-consciousness, we are the present day personality in the Likeness and Image of God. What does it mean? To express ourselves as life, will… will? is an expression of God. Which is also Life, and Love. We are self-conscious, when we Love. And are self-conscious when we sense we live. And we are self-conscious when we express a will. Now I don’t use the word ‘desire’. Desire is not the will. So it’s mistaken as the will by many. So this is likeness of the Infinite Beingness.
And, to whom did the Infinite Beingness say ‘let us create man to our likeness and image’? To beings in its multiplicity. To the Holy Archangels.
To the orders of the Holy Archangels. And how is that? The first responded the order of the Archangels we call the Thrones. Which are next to the Infinite Beingness. In the Infinite Beingness, but next to the Infinite Beingness in Authority. We can call this order of the Archangels also ‘Authorities’ and ‘Principalities’. They are three orders in one. One of these, called Metathronios because he will project himself from that order will accompany the being that will be incarnated into a human being. Our Spirit Self-consciousness. It is the only order of the Archangels that can express the at-one-ment - not the attunement - the at-one-ment, becoming one, so one Metathronios is egofied…. I don’t know if these are the correct terms…. which means ‘being as one’. To understand this, is easy. Get a candle with a big flame. Get another candle, again with a flame. Attach the one candle to the other… you have one flame. Yet it is not one flame, because if you take apart the candles, you see two flames. We can put them together and have just one flame.
In this sense, the Metathronios is egofied, becoming one with our Ego, and that’s our Guardian Angel. Does he have a name? No. He has
25’00”
our name. But which name? When I say ‘our name now’ as Spirit Self-consciousnesses. There is one name. Ego. Greek ‘ego’, Ich. If you ask him ‘what’s your name?’ He will reply “I am I”… and he means you, because he’s egofied. Can we say ‘I am I’ apart from the Metathronios Archangel? Yes, we can, but not now. Later, when we reach HIS measures because this is something we’ll understand later. But for the time being, what I call ‘at-one-ment’ means assimilation. Words cannot convey the true meanings.
So. Then, what about the other Archangels? And I said in a lesson that there are billions of Michaels, billions of Gabriels, billions of Raphaels, billions of Uriels. Yet, one. Why one? And billions? And I have explained it. You have millions of human beings, yet one is different from the other as a personality. You can never find two men the same, they are human. They are human beings. But in the world of Separateness, each one has his own personality, though we have on the planet and we had and we will have in the future millions millions of human beings, one is not the same as the other as a present day personality.
Yet, though we have millions of Archangels, of various orders, all the millions of the Michaels are one. You cannot find a Michael different from the other. So the expression of the Archangels is to express their nature which is the will and the meditation of the Infinite Beingness in its Total Wisdom.
So, the Archangels are not in the World of Separateness? In their work, yes. But not in reality because any Michael, whether he is in my body, in your body, in the body of an animal in a tree, in a flame, in the Sun, they are one. They are never separated the one from the other, yet each one has it’s Archangelic self-consciousness. As self-consciousness, a Michael is the same as all the Michaels. So the Gabriels, the Raphaels, the Uriels. What is common now, among these Archangelic orders? And among these Archangels? Love and willing to obey the Infinite Beingness in creating the creations. Cooperation in the creation of the universes. When I say cooperation in the worlds of the universes, I include the human beings, the animal kingdom, the plant kingdom. Every form of life.
So, each one of us, there is a Metathronios egofied to our Ego self consciousness Spirit. What about the Soul self consciousness? To be egofied and Archangel means to become everything that we are.
30’00”
So He’s egofied to our Soul self-consciousness, and even to our Present Personality consciousness.
So, when you want to be in touch with our Archangel, he’s not far away from you, he’s in you, even in your Present Day personality. And to live in the material body as a Present Day personality, every moment you make a dialogue with him. You don’t understand it because he is egofied with you. When you start meditating, you’ll start consciously now having that dialogue with that Guardian Angel, as a part of yourself, because, I repeat it, that Archangel, our Guardian Angel, is egofied with us. You think that you are speaking to yourself, and you think you are getting replies from yourself. But of course, later with certain kind of meditation you will realize that, yes, the egofied Archangel, my Guardian Angel within me, coming as myself, is not in reality myself, because he’s pure. He’s not dirty, as myself in the Present Day personality. Then you understand the difference.
So, apart from the Metathronios, comes a Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, and a Uriel. These three first Archangels are to build our bodies. The noetical, or noetic, I might want to call it, the psychical and the material body. And the in-between them, etheric doubles. So the Michael is giving your material body with Gabriel and Raphael, red, warm blood. What about the bones? By them, they are created, yet cooperates with them Shamael, the Lord of the Earth. He’s not an Archangel. He’s an angel, an elemental of Lucifer. Shamael in the Phoenician language, the Egyptian language, and even in the South Greek language, means ‘the Light carrier Archangel’. You can call him ‘the Lucifer’. In Greek, Aeosols. Yet, it isn’t Lucifer, a projection of Lucifer, he becomes the Lord of matter.
Why? Why [ ] what’s matter after all? Light. Have an explosion of an atom.. only an atom, and what you have? Light and fire. Everything is fire. MIND is fire. As we’ll understand after we start meditation and approaching the Truth.
So. I said the cooperation of Michael, Gabriel and Raphael are giving to us everything in our material body, all the organs of the material body. What do they give? The elements and they work with the elements. But what about the form? The human form? So many organs in the material body. So much work in our material body. Matter again, it is matter,
35’00”
and there are the Lords of the Elements, joining, composing with the Elements, the two lobes of the material brain in the skull. The skull. The eyes. So many organs in the material body. The liver, the lungs, the heart, the spleen, the pancreas. So many things in the material body. So it’s not only the work of the Lords of the Elements, but the Total Wisdom behind them in the constant meditation in the eternal now of the Infinite Beingness. Because in reality Life is governing all the phenomenon of life. And life is the Absolute Beingness. And those for the law?love? Logos and the Holy Spirit.
So, we see now a plan. A plan which existed, is existing now, and will exist always. And by that plan, the human body is built up. How do you understand that a human body which is conscious, not self-conscious, what is in your material body considered self-conscious is the present day personality, our ego. But Our material body is conscious, not self
conscious. It has its own Wisdom, life instincts. And we have just to study that by observation, meditation, and concentration. When you observe that and you study that, then you come in conscious contact with the Archangels, the Lords of the Elements, to learn their work in creating the consciousness of the material body. Which is not your self-consciousness. Can you transmute our self consciousness to the consciousness of the material body? Yes. But the common man cannot do that. One advances, advances, advances, comes in conscious contact with the Holy Archangels within his bodies, he can do that through what we call Attunement. And later maybe, to at-one-ment. And in that state, his body is now his by right, and not by the mercy. He becomes the master of his own home. Of his own home. Not his own self.
We have separate now, the consciousness Holy Spiritual of the material body, and the various organs in the material body from what I call our self consciousness. There is much work for it. You must have that in mind.
So, we must study the consciousness of the material body, of the various organs, then come in touch, conscious contact with the Holy Archangels our brothers. While working. They are THE workers in the material body. And by observation and concentration, we can know now, the plan. The plan in which the body is built and by which the body is built. Who is the master of this plan? I said definitely the Absolute Beingness. And Christos Logos.
40’00”
And also the Holy Spirit. How do you know that? What did Christ say? Not even a leaf from a tree is dropping down unless it is the Will of God. He speaks about the Will of God. Why? Because in the Will of God, in His Absolute Wisdom, we see everything taking place through the Eternal Now in what we call time and space. I think I take you to very deep waters now. Better come up because some of you cannot follow.
So. It’s a great, great work to be done in studying the work of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels in our material body. And then in what we call the mould of the material body the etheric double. And then, there is not an end to it, we have to study our psychical body. The work of the emotions. And then, the etheric double of the psychical body. And, the noetical body. Because we are a composition of MIND, Mind-thought, Mind-emotion, and
Mind matter.
Everything is MIND, I said to a lesson. So we must study all the natures of MIND. Then by studying it, we step out of it and say, ‘yes, I am not the MIND, though the MIND is mine, have something else.’ Then you realize what you are as a self conscious infinite being. Eternal being…. therefore the time you disentangle yourself from the illusions of time and space. Not before. As long as we live in the material world, in the psychical worlds, planes and subplanes, and the Mind world, the worlds of thought. As long as we live in the worlds of form, all these worlds are worlds of form…. time and space is not an illusion. It’s a relative reality. Relative. Not THE reality. Yet when you step out of all those events… space and time are illusions. But this will be known by your Spirit self consciousness and Soul self consciousness, not by a Present Day personality ego.
Yet, what it seems to be us real, and we call it an illusion, we can testify it by seeing the course of events and we see that nothing is unchanged. Life in the phenomena of life, as a phenomena of life is continuous change. Yes, this continuous change, which make us suspect that space and time are illusions and not reality.
So, who will find out the truth? And study all these things as phenomenon of life? In the worlds of the phenomenon of life and will know the worlds of the various dimensions?
45’00”
Of course the animals cannot do that. It may be that if we open the skull of an animal, we find more voluminous brains, and maybe in better condition, than our human brains. So it’s not the matter composing the brains inside the skull which tend to know and through which we will know. We. Who we? Even ourselves as a Present Day Personality can use the formless supersubstance of the MIND to know. To enter into what I call the ‘Wisdom of the Infinite Beingness’. Total wisdom? Not yet. The Wisdom of the Infinite Beingness as regards the things we are going to study.
So. Now we come to a cross way. What we were doing until now. How we were using the supersubstance of the MIND, without knowing it? We were subconsciously using the MIND to serve our desires and our intentions in life. And now we must make a comparison. We must study our behavior
(end of tape side)
To my beloved daughter, Panayiota Thioki, who’ll form part of her book I’ll dedicate to her. I dedicate this lesson also to my beloved daughter Panayiota Thioki.
Now. Who will study these things? Everything taking place all around us? And by what means we will study these things? Until this moment, we are using MIND subconsciously, without knowing anything about the nature of MIND. We were using… obeying our desires and intentions… elementals. Building desire thought forms and also thought desire forms. Without knowing them, but all the time being under their impression and their influence. We are living a life, we didn’t care very much to study that kind of life we are living. We are living in pain, in troubles, in misery. And no one came to shake us up and say ‘come on, what’s life? What kind of life you are living? Who are you living this life? What means to you to live this life and know things in this life?
50’00”
You are living subconsciously, slave of the desire to have, to possess, to show yourself. Which self? Why? And so we see people all around us living… living how? Subconsciously, recomposing themselves in the morning, after they come from a deep sleep without dreams, just in a state of non-existence. Yet their body, with its consciousness, lying on the bed was living. They were breathing. I say body. The circulation of the blood was in the body, because, we said, the body has its own consciousness. Call it subconsciousness. It doesn’t matter, a just strong consciousness, which against just get a peek, without noticing itself as a personality. You just touch it on a pressure on the skin, you’ll see it swelling a little without your notice. Which means that the body has a consciousness of itself.
Not only. Every organ has its own consciousness. When we come to the point of knowing the body, we find it out. And you’ll get wondering ‘what a marvelous work was all the time taking place in our material bodies’. And I said, ‘this is the consciousness of the material body’, which are different from our self-consciousness as a Present Day personality. Now for the first time we find our self as and Ego Present Day Personality. You say ‘I am not the body’. The body yet is mine, as everything around me I call mine.
But are things around us we call ‘ours’, do they really belong to us? Are we the Lords of the Elements? We can take some elements and work them out according to our needs. We know the iron, clay, gold, silver, everything. But we did not create these metals and all these elements. Did we?
We found the ready. Changing their forms. Everything should have a form so that it would come to our notice. And we give forms to things we are in need of and are using, and we call them ‘ours’. And I tell you, it’s nothing ‘ours’. We think it is. What is ours is only ourself. Our self-consciousness. But we find it out much later, when we see that some of these precious things we are calling ‘ours’, our things, are taken away from us. When many of what we have valued are taken away from us, we are not less to what we were, having them. Unhappy, as a personality, yes, but in reality, we are not less not having it. And maybe the Infinite Beingness when it will see that the human being by gathering and gathering and gathering and calling this is mine and that’s mine and is losing itself in the
55’00”
enchantment of things, it will deprive that personality from things just to come back to senses. To understand that after all, everything that I called ‘mine’ did not give me anything more than trouble and fears. And, as a self-conscious being, I have lost nothing. As a self-conscious being now, living in the world of forms all around us and have a human form ourselves, as a phenomenon of life, come to know the world around us, the world of forms, the material world, through the five senses. And especially through seeing. Less, touching, smelling, feeling.
So. Seeing is the sense that really make us express ourselves and receiving impressions from the outside world. The outside hall. Seeing what we call ‘ours’. Possessions, buildings, jewels, property, lands. It’s only paper and knowledge to be ours by our human beings. What does it mean ‘our’? Having just a title when it is a property, or just have a receipt that this jewel has not been stolen, and I bought it. Just like that, and you say ‘I possess all that’. Possess. A great illusion.
How do you come to know these things you value so much? Through sight. Seeing. Touching. You have a nice jewel. I speak to the ladies now. You get it, lovely, pearls. Diamonds. And all those things. You see it, you touch it, you put it on your finger, you wipe it, and you like to show it. You
say, ‘No. This is mine!’ But is it really yours? Some of you say ‘of course. It’s on my finger, I bought it, it’s mine.’ You are under the illusion of ‘mine’. How do you know exists or no of that thing? You see it. Definitely. If you cannot see it, you cannot know of its existence. And touching it, you see it. You see it as you see everything all around you. But what happens? You get knowledge of its existence through the reflection of light only. Why don’t you call the light yours? It can be more yours, the light. But anything material. Because its working with your eyesight.
So, you see it. What’s in your fingers and you see it, you call it yours. No. That thing, that precious ring or something like that, golden… is living. On your eye, a tiny tiny not bigger than the head of the pin image of it, on your eye. What happens, that gives an irritation on what we call optical nerve, and then, this give like an irritation to a place in your brains. Then you say ‘I see it’.
60’00”
In the brains, inside the skull, is darkness.
Only that tiny irritation, I don’t know if I’m using the right word, I mistake as ‘the ring’, saying it is ‘mine’. Good. Suppose I’m a very greedy person. I have now a big box full of these precious things. Just mixing them up and I’ll say ‘they are all mine’. There you are. Not only jewels. I have rich buildings, I get rents, what we call many storied buildings, 20. There are such people, having in its possessions. And I said, ‘how these things are yours?’ They come to ‘here are the titles from the land registration office. [ ] paying these receipts. They are mine!’ Yes, everything on paper. Suppose next day happens and you become blind. Completely blind. You have to stay in a room, in darkness. Then I tell you, ‘what is yours now?’ You have this big box full of diamonds, these lovely things, come on. Put your hand in it. Just know, it’s only by touch you know. But by touch, if I put there, instead of jewels, pieces of iron, how you understand that it’s not gold, it’s iron?
Instead, that’s yours! Didn’t you say that all those jewels are yours? Well, see them! Touch them! These buildings. You are sitting in the corner of a room now, blind. You cannot see anything, even the beloved persons you have. Then somebody comes and says ‘yes, you know, you have in your safe the titles of possessing all, all, all that.’ They come to you and say ‘are
you now the owner of all, all, all those things?’ What do you think, answer to me. Yes! You continue being in the illusion.
What is ours? Ours? Only ourselves as Self-consciousnesses. You tell me now, are after all, our senses, the material body which do not give nothing more than irritation in the material brain. Happens even that, I am losing. My eyesight. The sense of seeing. Then you find that you are living as a self-conscious human being and in other worlds of other dimensions. You see now, not through the material eyes, but you see! You don’t see the reflection of light on the surface of things coming to you, but then you find out that everything radiates its own light and you see now. You have experienced this during the night when you see a lovely, clear dream. With which eyes you see it? Seeing as your material eyes are closed.
So, it’s not the irritation on the material brain that gives you the sense of seeing. Because what are the means of giving that irritation now? In the material brain? So it’s not the material brain’s receipt of the senses.
65’00”
When you’re far away from the material body in deep sleep, sleeping soundly, you can live, if you’ve learned the art of observation, concentration, and using the mind now. Apart from the material brains to live consciously, in all of the sub-planes of the psychical world with which you vibrate. In your hell, or in your paradise. It depends on what you have built, as long as you are living in the material world.
So, seeing now is something different to what you call seeing through the five senses of the material body. That what you observe now, that seeing you consider as so precious as gift to live in a material body in a human form, is not everything because we see and receive impressions only from one place. And what I call space is influencing the sense of the seeing. Space. Far away you don’t see anything. In a distance, you don’t see anything. When these things are coming to you or you start going to them, you start seeing them. Small, bigger, bigger, bigger, until they are in your hand. You see them in their natural size. Then space or place is just giving you the sense of seeing.
You see when you are in the psychical plane, seeing is a different thing. Distance, or place or the sense of space is not an obstacle in seeing.
Because with what we call the psychical sight, distance is not influencing things. Now you tell me can we not develop this ability, seeing psychically while we live in the material body, seeing with your material eyes? Through your material eyes, no. We know the limitations of the material eyes. But when you develop that sense, you close your eyes and you can see things in a distance. Better colors, more light, more understanding. Because you are in a different dimension from the dimension of the three dimensions of the material world. We don’t undervalue the sense of seeing through the material eyes, but it is very limited. And living in a material body through the five senses, you are living in a very limited way of life. You can develop more I would say powers, seeing, and feeling… what kind of feeling in the material world. Nearly nothing. You have persons all around you loving you or hating you. Only different persons, you see them. What do you know more than seeing them, shaking hands, or maybe exchanging good words or even insults. Until you know what they think, what they feel for you while living in the material body - only in the material body - No. You can develop all these powers, abilities, I don’t find any better word.
70’00”
You can read their thoughts. You can feel their emotions. What else? You can express yourself better now. Because you are not confined in what you receive as impressions the material brain’s being imprisoned in the material body. But you can expand. Expand what? Your self consciousness. Because unless you recompose yourself as a self consciousness, what’s the use of expanding? You cannot do that subconsciously. But consciously. So you can develop this self-consciousness away from the material body, in great distance. Only that. We said yesterday that with a new way of living you can be in many places at the same time, and live fully. When say ‘live fully’, what do I mean? Not just getting impressions through the reflection of light on objects, but understanding now, more. Suppose you find yourself in four or five different places that don’t see you. No need to materialize yourself, though you can do that after becoming master of matter.
If you go with your material body, only, and you see in a room forty people, you see them only. Some beautiful faces, lovely bodies, well dressed people, just like that, what more you can just see? When you have the new abilities or powers, entering you know the thought of everyone. You know the feelings of everyone. No need to see their aura just to guess their state of development, cause the colors of the aura are changing. By the
thoughts and the emotions are changing. So we cannot rely on the aura around. But you can know them. You must have that in mind. You are living more fully, I would say.
I had an experience when I was in Greece. Sometime, I was living in the house of the head of one of our circles, Adayi Balskovi. Without knowing anything, there was a telephone call to that office to that house. “Can we speak to Daskalos?” Said “Please, speak to me.” Then I got a telephone, and a voice in Greek told me, ‘Sir, put down this address. A Llama passing from Athens to London wants to see you. If you please, do come to meet him.’ I didn’t know that a Llama was passing from Athens to London. It was the Panchen Llama, the one just under the Dalai Lama. I told this fellow, I had this telephone call and this address, he says, ‘are you going with him?’ Then he says ‘today or tomorrow’
75’00”
come any moment you like to meet with him, even the night hours, because after tomorrow I’m leaving for London. They are talking just go now, cause his wife, himself, myself, went to this place. It was about 5 or 6 kilometers away. We went, because a keeper, a bit younger, came at the door. She didn’t know any language besides the Tibetan language. So, she didn’t speak to us. She went out before me and the others and showed us in. So, Heshowedus came in, big room, full of carpets, tried things tho in the words in Tibetan language, and on a cushion there, and near it another one, was sitting the Panchen Llama dressed in his orange frock, crosslegged, the ground, holding his rosary praying. Cause I brought my rosary also with me. That lady showed two chairs at the end of the room for those who weren’t seated. Of course, I took off my shoes, according to the custom, and I went walking and sat near him. He turned to me only. He gave me his rosary, I got it, I took my rosary from my pocket and gave it to him. He [ ]. There we are for ten minutes not exchanging any word at all. Silent. Then he turned to me. Smiled to me. And he kissed me. [ ] kissed him right here, at the root of the nose, called the third eye. Of course that fellow got some photos. I have. I’m afraid Markides got them… [ ] … I brought him in there to him, to do things without asking. Ten minutes I got up, I bowed before him, he stood before me again, touch our hands, two hands, look him in the eyes, made the sound of a clap. And we went away. All ten minutes, that fellow was there, told me, what did you come? You came, you sat near him on a cushion, he gave you one thing to pray, and you gave
him yours. I left mine, I gave him, told him ‘keep this’. Those are the precious rosary. Keep it.
Told him ‘Look here, these ten minutes have exchanged so much, that you cannot exchange in 5 years. Knowing so much from him, he knows so much about me, that 2 people cannot say in 5 years. What do I mean now? Time is an illusion. That’s it. Because what is the interest of time if you can just use this way of coming in contact with people. Even from now, people can realize that time is an illusion. What is understanding now? How did we understand each other? With our material brains? A handful of earth? No. With what? With the vibrations of hearts. And now I know why Christ said ‘blessed are the pure hearted for they shall see God’.
80’00”
The material brains are nothing, it’s a handful of earth. Nothing about that. You find it out when you are consciously out of the body and you see the body laying there, so the whole body and the material brain and everything in the material body is an overcoat you can take off and put it aside any moment you like. Without being yourself less to what you were before. More? Yes, you have more understanding, because the material brains is an obstacle in understanding quickly. You have to train the material brain while you don’t need to train your psychical brain. Is there a psychical brain? Not that. It’s out of experience, I’ll say.
To think in the material body, you have to use the material brain. What about the psychical body? Is there, in the head of the psychical body, something like the brain? No. Brain is the whole psychical body. You can think, see, and feel - if you become the master of the psychical body - through every molecule of the psychical body.
Now you ask me those who leave the material body, they go to the psychical plane in a subplane vibrating according to their own vibration. Do they see, as you say, now? Through every particle of their psychical bodies? No. They need to see having the sense of the material eyes. So one has to know the way, to learn the way, and you can study this way, even while living in the material body by making your exercises. By making those exercises, you don’t develop the material mind, but you are conscious of the vibrations of the psychical mind, which is all the psychical body and its etheric double. What qualities it give you this? Delesthesia or
clairvoyance.
What’s clairvoyance? Seeing in the far away places. What are more things you gain? Reading meanings and vibrations, apart from words or any language. When you reach that stage, they can give you a book, any book, in any language, because all words are vibrating meanings. No need to know the language. To have the book in your hand, through what I call psychometry, you can know the contents of the whole book in seconds, no matter in which language it’s written, because you get the meanings of those words in the book and whether in the book their is writing wasser (German word) water, delo, nero, it’s immaterial. When you touch it, you will see it. It is what we call a kind of seeing and understanding.
But what you do when you read a book? When you read a book if you know that language, what are you doing? Are you not creating scenes by forming into these scenes and the persons MIND? The formless supersubstance into your own imagination. What is it we call imagination? Knowing from the environment, you cannot create anything unless you know it already.
85’00”
So, a Researcher after Truth, for everything he’s doing, he’s observing, he is learning, he must get the truth of it, and not just stay in the surface. Get in the real meanings. So the word is not only full of words sounds. It’s full of ideas. Now let’s not mix the word Idea as we said the World of Ideas. Now I am using this word in the common sense, that means understanding. So it’s difficult just to give lessons, with the usual words we are using every day. It’s a great - believe me - difficulty. The word we say Ideas, we mean something different now when we say Ideas from what we said before. The World of Ideas causes Laws, and so in a sense of everything existing. That’s a difference.
So, now your questions. Lightly speak please.
Q: I imagine the egoic plane, but what I want to know is how - how do we assume this form in the present day personality from the Ego? Or how’s the present day personality formed on any one person like why [ ] why do you have your form, why do each person have their own form.
D: You have to concentrate, study and find the answer. I’m not going to give you a reply now, because you have to find it. I’m only guiding you to find it, by using the mind yourself as a Present Day Personality. And see your Ego reflected in it. There is no other way except using the MIND, as reason, first of all, reason, observation and meditation. What do I mean by meditation? See things taking place in the sense of time and space. That’s meditation. Only through the MIND you will know everything and the MIND. And reflected in MIND, you will know your Ego. I think it’s a satisfactory reply? It’s very difficult to achieve it, MIND. You have to try and try meditation in years.
Q: Daskele, why is it can you say that the present day personality experiences difficulty in attuning to the permanent personality. Why does the present day personality seem to gravitate to the dirty end of the line and one has to push it the other way?
D: Because the present day personality of men, different the one from the other, is entangled with interests in the material world and in their own way of expressing itself, while the permanent personality of every one of us is not so different because it is the receiver of the impressions and regulating these impressions according to the the Soul knowledge to give it back. So it is the child, with the man. So the child, if the child, to come it touch with the mother, is willing, the mother will be just ‘yes’. So the present day personality has to grow in experience to reach the wisdom of the permanent personality collecting all the experiences, and which is, after all, the reflection of the Soul self-consciousness.
Q: So we are given a range of choice and we have to learn discrimination?
90’00”
D: Exactly. I put it another way. As a center, we have both the present day personality and the permanent personality and all our Ego existence in all the ribs. Yes, now the present personality has a diameter, but the permanent personality diameter is much more. Now the present day personality with experiences broadens the circumference someday it will reach the circumference of the permanent personality, or the Soul Ego Self-consciousness.
So, can the present day personality know much as regards the permanent
personality? No. What is the permanent personality now? Our Guardian Angel supervises and through the permanent personality and the experiences of the present day personality stored in the permanent personality conducts it there. So by observation and mediation and experiments, you reach that state in which you distinguish now the suggestions of permanent personality or Guardian Angel, or Soul-Self Consciousness. Is it all one? No! There are three yet they have the at-one-ment. Later… I said before now 2 candles, have each the same light. Now put 3 candles, they have the same light. But when I separate them, you see three flames.
So you can go there. Your Guardian Angel in the permanent personality, you can contact your Soul Self Consciousness in the permanent personality, but it’s much more than the permanent personality, the Soul Self-consciousness. You can contact also your Spirit Self-consciousness in that little ego through the permanent personality, because the ego is the Ego. God, whether it is covered with rags as a present day personality. Sooner or later we have to take off our rags. Again, did I answer?
Yes. Tomorrow in the morning we have lesson again, 10:30. And tomorrow we’ll give some exercises, but I don’t mean that everyone will start doing it immediately. Keep them, those especially would be the psychotherapists or who are the psychotherapists. [ ] a lady there because we are psychotherapists. We are not going to become a psychotherapist, [ ] you are a psychotherapist. So, the psychotherapists must be instructed how to deal with the exercises. Shall we make now an exercise?
it is very very simple, but very precious.
[end of tape]