1989.11.21
February 8, 1990 Part B Stoa Lesson by Daskalos (November 21, 1989?)
0’00”
Opening Prayer
Our Father Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory, forever.
God of Life, Love, and Mercy. Enlighten our minds to understand your Truth. Clean our hearts to reflect Your Love towards you and to all the
human beings. Amen.
We said that everything is made of mind. And you have mind as super substance, which is formless. Have it as substance taking form. As super matter, or psychical matter. And, also, as matter. Matter is solid mind. And this mind, which is divine, not God, holy, means through which the Absolute Beingness as Logos is expressing creatively itself creating the universes and everything existing in the universes. When I say universes I mean the higher mental or causal world, the mental (noetic or noetical), the psychical so-called world, and the material world. When I say material universe I don’t mean only the planet and everything existing on the planet but I mean every material celestial body - All planets, suns, solar systems, galaxies. Everything material. We call that the world of the three dimensions. So, the world of the three dimensions is what we call the material world and has its own laws. Besides the world of the three dimensions we have the world of the fourth dimension. The fourth dimensional world, which is the so-called psychical world. There in this world space as we understand it is annihilated but not place. Now, what’s space and what’s place? Space - we cannot understand it unless we define space into the meanings of place. Space. Nobody can understand it. Place - In space a located environment, let us call it like that. So, we understand space. Place is this room. Everything which we can see it as place - a room, a building, a town, countryside, can call it a place.
5’15”
Now, space. What’s space? If I consider this room as a place, space is what is in this room and outside of this room. That’s space. But still, what is in this room as place? What relation it has with space? Because the place is defined. Space cannot be defined. Just this moment we say we have this space in this room. So many cubic feet. You can measure it. Who can measure space? Space is incomprehensible. Now, say in this space of so many cubic feet, but we know that the Earth is moving around her axis. Just imagine how big is the Earth, the Earth moving around its axis. Great speed. We know it makes one round every twenty-four hours. The space of this room as a place is not the same from the one second to the other second. In closing and opening your eyes the space, and what we really understand as space, is miles, miles away since the Earth is moving. And there again, the whole planet is going around the Sun once a year. And the whole solar system is, again, going around the center of the galaxy. Everything is moving. We cannot even imagine the speed. Everything is moving. So, we can understand space as place. But we cannot just make
comparisons because space is something which you cannot define and place is something you can define and know it. So, what we really care is what we call place - A room, a building, a locality. Part of space in which we live and we understand something material. Something material. This is the world of the three dimensions and the law in the world of three dimensions is that never two things having the same solidity can occupy the same space. Let us call it space. Or place. We can see things in the material world through our senses, especially the sight by seeing. So, do we see in space or in place? What we care is conceptions in place, in a place, which though it’s changing all the time yet it isn’t changing very very quickly but the changes are even in place.
10’25”
Towns have been ruined of past centuries. Civilizations have gone. We see the ruins now of big, big cities but those big cities was the place of many many thousands of people living there for many many generations. Yet, nothing remains constant. Everything changes. So, place also is changing. Not only in the material world, also in the other worlds. So, now, we know what’s place. You can have this conception of a certain place for many many many years. A room, you build this room and for many many many years you can live in this room, make changes in this room. Though what part of space is this room occupying? Since we said that the earth is moving around her axis. So, who cares about space? What we care is place. The meaning of a place. Even Christ. What did Christ say to his disciples? He said, “I go to prepare a place for you.” He didn’t mention anything about space. So we cal place an environment. Is that the word, I think? So, our life is in a place. Always our life. Apart from the conception of a place, what can be our life? We can understand a place with many many many meanings from a room to a big, huge building or to a town or something like that. Can understand a place. We see it in a place we touch things. We are living. But now how we are living in a place? What’s life or the phenomenon of life? A human being. Definitely a human being with his body he occupies space and has its place in a certain place. Definitely. This is what you call our life. What we understand as life on the planet and what is our being in this life on the planet. Living means moving. Life is motion either internal inside the body as the circulation of the blood, many other things taking place in our body as metabolism and the creation of many many liquids in our body. That’s life.
15’07”
Life in a material body. But one day we cast away that material body and it will decay because the material body is made of this earth. What’s life now
for us? Are we cast in space? In which kind of space? Can we exist as human intelligence without the idea of place or a place? Just think it now. As human beings, no. As human beings we need to have the conception of a place to move in. And that’s what we call our life on the material plane. And so we study the laws governing the material plane. We say that we pass over. Over where? What’s that “over”? But do we have any other better word? We don’t. Yet, we define we “over” place. Is there any place apart from what we call a place on the material world? I put another way. In this psychical world of say the fourth dimensions, do we have the conception of a place? Are there in the psychical world what are on the material plane mountains, seas, rivers, trees, oceans? All these are things in space define, occupy place. Are such things in the psychical world? Of course since the material world is solid matter and this solid matter is getting form why not the psychical world which is more subtle matter? Matter substance cannot have a form? Of course it has a form. So you can see on the psychical plane and the psychical plane is the planet, inside the planet, the surface of the planet, and I said in a lesson, many many thousands of kilometers around the planet. But the psychical world of the planet is not touching the psychical world of any other planet or even of the moon. So, we define now place. The psychical world occupies part of space I can define as place. In the planet, around the planet, many many thousands of kilometers around the planet. And are there in this place mountains, oceans, land, trees, as we have them in the material plane?
20’00”
I say yes. Much much more than what you have on the planet because after all the planet as a place we know it. We can define it yet the three-fourths of the planet are water. What remains? Five continents as a place. So believe me that the planet we are living on as a place is very very very limited. What about the psychical plane? We said now that the psychical plane of our planet is inside the planet, the surface of the planet and many many thousands of kilometers around the planet. And those who have studied the psychical plane know that the psychical plane is divided into seven planes and each plane is divided to another seven subplanes which means forty-nine subplanes as a place there. In comparison to the surface of the planet it’s a vast vast place. Yet, even so, the world of the fourth dimensions is again very very different. So, now as a place these psychical worlds is vast place because though on the material plane no two solid things can occupy the same place in the psychical world hundreds of things of the same solidity can occupy the same place without being mixed up. We said that in the psychical world is annihilated the meaning of space.
Now I explain it but not the meaning of place. So many many many places can occupy the same space in the psychical plane without being confused. Now it’s rather difficult to understand the laws governing the psychical plane. I said that in the psychical plane we have our paradise and our hell or paradises and hells. What space do they occupy though are giving the sense of a place? All paradises and all hells occupy the same space yet giving separate sense of a place. So here is the difference between the material world of the three dimensions and space with the world of the fourth dimensions, the psychical world, as again place in space. Of course this is not very easy to understand it unless you live in it and you know it. Movement in the psychical world is not necessarily what you call movement in the physical world. Though those who go to the psychical world after passing over, those you are calling dead, most of them do not understand the change the same way a man is not understanding the change between his life and a dream life.
25’13”
You are living in your dream. Where do you live? Now, where? The material body is on the bed lying there. You, where are you now? Independently of your material body you have a body. You move. You see things. You touch things. You live completely a kind of life the same as that you are living with your material body on the three dimensional world. But how do you live now? Just though you are in the fourth dimensional world you live as you live in the material world because you don’t know the difference. You are under all the time the idea of place. And because you have the idea that I am in this room occupying a place in the material world never two solid things can occupy the same space you have to go through the door, open a door and go or open a window and walk step by step. Though you are in the psychical plane in your dream life at night you behave in the same way as if you are living in the material world and I tell you at least eighty percent of those who pass over they continue to live in this way having the idea of place finding themselves in a place and just living the same way they live the material plane. And slowly slowly they are taught the new laws of the psychical world. They may live years, many many years, in the same way they live on the material plane. In houses, yes. There is also the possibility of living under the idea of place. Place. We live in houses there. With what substance are those houses built? On the material plane we know we can have the earth, the soil, water, iron, cement, and build our houses. It needs labor and many many other things just to build a house to live in a place. Your place. In your place. We find ourselves there. Where? In space, no where or everywhere. In place, in
your house, in your room as you know it. So living in the material world we create elementals of everything we see and touch material. This is your world in reality and not the material world around you. The image of the material environment, yes. A fellow is passing over he knows his house. He loves his house. In a very rich house or just a house.
30’00”
With costly things or just a poorly furnitured house. His furniture these are the things he knows. Everything you have in the material plane you have its counterpart in the psychical plane. So, when a fellow is passing over or dies as we call it, and his body is buried, he finds himself in his house. Now again as a place but is this place the place he was living in the material plane? It can be because every material thing has its counterpart but he finds himself in a such subplane which is not now space but conditions of space which may be thousands of miles away from the original house he was living in. How he is moving there? He finds himself there according to his psychical vibrations. So, you never lose what you know and you own. You must have that in your mind. But what we own? A table, a chair, chairs, furniture, this and that. You call them your own. If I take you to a place and I tell you now sit here. Describe me your house. Is it difficult for you to say in my bedroom I have that bed and you bring it in your mind that bed. The form of your bed. And my chests, you can bring them in your mind. You see them, your bed and your chest and everything maybe miles maybe away. Many miles away yet you know them and you know them means you own them. You can live there. How? With my mind. My imagination. This is a very misleading word the word of imagination. Not with your imagination but with your mind. So, what you own and you know as material thing has a counterpart that’s yours. Not the material thing. The material thing may be destroyed in a moment but who can destroy from your consciousness that something you love and you have lived with it. But can you continue living with something that as a material object is destroyed? Yes, why not? Because it is the material thing that’s destroyed, not the form of it. So, we come to what we call the form. And a material form. By what matter is that form in your mind now? Well a form in the material world is made of material or stuff of the planet. The form in the psychical plane is made by the material of that plane.
35’04”
Is that matter? Is there matter in the psychical world? The psychical world we call it matter-substance. So we have the formless supersubstance of mind, have the substance of mind, you have the supermatter substance which is psychical world, and we have also the material world. So you find
yourself after passing over in your home as you knew it and owning there has a different meaning from what we say owning in the material plane. Maybe you live in a house you have rented, loved it, lived in it, going here and there and the next day the fellow who is the owner will kick you out from the house in the material world. But if you go to a place, and you close your eyes, and live in that house now not material worlds but a house having the same form from matter and stuff of the psychical plane. Which is again matter-substance. What is really interesting is not the stuff but the form. And the real things are not those made of earth, but of light. What do you mean of light? Mind in the psychical world is self-lighted. The material world you have darkness and you need the light to see things. For example, during the night as you have the electric light here you cannot enter in the room and see chairs and tables and everything in this room unless you have light. The same does not apply in the psychical world. Everything in the psychical world are self-reflecting light. You don’t need any light from outside to make you see things in the psychical world. Don’t we have darkness in a dark room and not being able to see things? Yes, in your mind. Yes, of course, because you are under the impression of things which happen in the material world. But if somebody will teach you the way, No, concentrate more, you don’t need any light because everything here is self-lighted you will see them. And still with more light you can see things in the higher mental world, in the fifth-dimensional world. So, if you compare life in the psychical world with life in the material world life there is much better. Easier. More comfortable. We said that the psychical world is the world of emotions, desires. Therefore what you desire, what you want to have, there you will have it. Only if you deserve and you know how to have it.
40’00”
Unless you deserve having it you will not have it because there again the law of destiny is influencing everything in the same way it is influencing things in the material world. So, you must learn how to build your life there. To build your life that means to build everything you need to live. And if for somebody is passing over he doesn’t know how to create things by the use of the imprinting ether will he be poor? Some of them yes if they are just under destiny or karma call it. But there are the archangels there, many archangels, many helpers who will provide things for you because they love. Those invisible helpers who visit these subplanes and the planes they know it. Everybody there is rich if he knows how to use mind as imprinting ether. So this is the most precious lesson one has to learn, even from this material plane, because life in the psychical world is just the same as it is in
the material world with the difference that the substance by which that world is built up is different from the substance of the world of the three dimensions here on earth. And what is the difference? Don’t we have there solids, liquids, gaseous things as you have them on the material world? Of course you have it but what does it mean solid? You consider solid something which vibrates in the same rate of vibration with your solid hand. You touch it because the vibrations are the same you find it as solid. Suppose you create an etheric hand. Of course some of you will learn how to create an etheric hand to use it. Can an etheric hand pass through solids? Yes, of course. Can we materialize the etheric hand and when you materialize it it will not be able to pass through a material thing in the material world? Yes, of course it will not because you make it vibrate in the same rate of vibrations as the material things. Now, what are taught the invisible helpers by their teacher when they go there? To distinguish the difference between the material world and the psychical word. You may be in your home as you know which will be the counterpart of your home down on earth. Even in your dream. You can get chairs and move them. They are solid to you because your psychical hands vibrate in the same rate of vibrations as the articles in the psychical world. You can get a chair and move anywhere you like just in the same way you do things on the material word with your material hands moving material objects. When you are in the counterpart of your house there but if I bring you in the material house down there in that room. Many times I tricked the invisible helpers to distinguish the difference and tell you now move this chair. You will not be able to move it unless you lower the vibrations of your psychical hands to materialize them to the same vibrations to the chair and then move it. This is the art one learns here even with the art of telekinesis. You have to be trained from the material world to distinguish the different rates of vibrations which give you the conception of the various dimensions. So, nobody will find himself in the psychical world abandoned. He will have a house whether it is his house in the material plane or he rented it. There it is his house.
End
46’08”