1989.10.05 (part 5) - also labeled as 1989.10.16
Daskalos-October 5. 1989
0’00”
In the last lesson we spoke about the subconsciousness. The subconsciousness is the sum total of our elementals, our thought-forms or desire-thought forms. It’s also what we brought from previous lives and also the general storehouse of vitality given us by the Holy Spirit. So we have it in three classes. Your class, which is for the creation of the elementals through us, is that part of our subconsciousness from which we can draw the supersubstance of MIND, formless, and form it into what we call elementals. Thought-forms. Of course it should be provided, all the time, by what we call ‘vitality’. Also, there is the other side of the subconscious, which is only under the supervision of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels, the Lords of the Elements. There, they work keeping what we call our etheric double in good health. Our etheric double is always in good health. And through it, as a mould, to build the material body. The material body is not always in good health. Why? Why our etheric double is always in good health? Because it’s a store house of vitality, etheric vitality. And it is supervised by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels of the Elements.
Now, this etheric double, say, is provided by hundred monads of vitality, every day. 40% is needed by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels to build the material body and to restore good health, because always by our thoughts and the way of behaving and living, we are burning this vitality.
So, another 60% remains for the personality to use it, in creating and forming elementals and in
05’00”
living, moving, going here and there. Whatever we do is burning this kind of vitality. Now, remains for us 60% to do that. If we burn more than the 60%, then the material body should suffer. Of course the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels are filling this etheric double with energy, with vitality, with etheric vitality. But they need some time for building the material body and for repairing damages in the material body. So this is why the material body is sometimes undergoing illnesses. Yes, but if we leave the material body at ease, the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels are curing wounds and repairing damages in the material body. If left alone to do that.
So, now the one side of the subconsciousness which is in the etheric double, that side of the subconsciousness is all the time full of vitality and energy. And there is a passage to that part of the subconsciousness for us to build our thought-forms, elementals, and live our life. So, other functions of the etheric double we mentioned in other lessons. How can we fill consciously our etheric double with etheric vitality? In two ways. By breathing properly, and by what I call using again the subconsciousness to enrich itself with that vitality. We said the subconsciousness of ours is as kinetic, esthetic, and imprinting ether in that part of creating the elementals. As creative ether is the other side with the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. But also the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels are using the kinetic ether in restoring health in the material body.
The imprinting ether and also the esthetic ether, but now there’s esthetic ether in that part of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels, is not giving any sense or feeling to the present day personality. Yet, the Holy Archangels are feeling what they are doing. The imprinting ether, of course they do it by constant creative thought. But there is a gap now between in the subconsciousness our imprinting ether used by the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit and that part of the imprinting ether we are using. Can
we just unite them? And sometime feel how they feel? And get the way they are using the imprinting ether in restoring health in the material body? Yes. A Daskalos or a master or a good psychotherapist and
10’00”
psychiatrist should know how to bridge that gap. Just by [ ].
Now we said that the esthetic ether is used by the personality, also the kinetic ether is used by the personality, and imprinting ether, is used by the present day personality. By the present day personality of a common man is not using what we call creative ether. So, in the other side of the subconsciousness, under the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels, they use the kinetic ether. How is the circulation of blood in the body, do not in the command of a human being. How is the breath, breathing constantly, can you live without breathing? Of course not.
And the imprinting ether, they are using it, plus the creative ether. Now, what a real Researcher after truth, psychotherapist, psychiatrist, should do to develop his skill and ability in getting in conscious touch with these Divine entities, the Holy Archangels? And the Holy Spirit? How can he do that? First by studying the nature of what we call subconsciousness. Study what is going on in his material body without his knowing it. Have a knowledge of the anatomy. And knowledge of the Divine creative work in his material body, and they open as higher authorities than his little petty self-consciousness. As a man or as a woman. And then, start to realize that as a present day personality, that present day personality has to broaden her views, her knowledge, and her responsibilities in living in the body. Responsibilities?
By not making bad use of the etheric double and burning the vitality with an insatiable way of living. Envy, creating enemies, getting angry, and living not in the right way. So who will teach the present day personality all that? The present day personality must realize that she can use the MIND, the formless MIND, in creating through the imprinting ether elementals, thought-forms. For which the present day personality is responsible. How the present day personality would know that? By suffering under those elementals.
So the first step to do is ‘how am I feeling now?” “How am I thinking now?”
“How am I behaving now?” And why? The easy way. That by observation, observing the result of the behavior. What is my behavior offering me me, or costing me? Pain.
15’00”
Trouble. Pleasure. What kind of pleasure? How we will check that? By concentrating and trying to know the truth as regards our relation and our relations with the family, with the society, with the community. How do we live now in the community? And what is in our relation with the community is giving us? Pain. Envy. Hatred. Troubles. So by doing that, the present day personality will start living in a more reasonable way. Some will say can “Are we not living in a reasonable way now?” Just depends, of course, we’ll find out by concentrating and observing our behavior. Our relations with the other fellow beings all around us. What is the gain after this study? We start to realize who we are. What are the others around us. And going straight deeper, ‘what’s life?’
And studying our relations, we must come to another one: what’s love? what’s hatred?
Now, how we will study the present situation of our subconsciousness? Just by studying our behavior. This is the most practical way of studying. We shall guess that that means studying to know what we are as a present day personality. Exactly. Because the sum total of our subconsciousness, that side we are using, is the present day personality. And the sum total of the present day personality are the elementals we are creating and have created. The certain natures of that, the quality of our present day personality is just the quality of those elementals we project and we have them back. Back, in that part of that storehouse. Subconsciousness which day and night we are living in and we are influenced by it.
Now we study a little bit more the quality and the nature of this part of the subconscious. Cause it’s not easy for a common man to enter and study that part of the subconsciousness in which dominates the creative ether. The Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. Now. We’ve got our side of our subconsciousness. First of all, where this subconsciousness of ours of our present day personality? Is in what we call the etheric double. Just in that branch of the subconsciousness we say esthetic ether, kinetic ether and imprinting ether, respires not these qualities of the etheric double used by
the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels, for the time being just study our present day personality. Personalities qualities and then spread by observation and concentration, and meditation to study the whole field of what I call subconsciousness.
20’00”
So, we have to start to realize that every thought and every emotion or desire creates an elemental. We can’t see it now. But we can see it later when we get the clairvoyance. For the time being we’ll feel its influence on us. So, I said “What is thought?” We live in an environment where other people are living, everyone in his own way. Using a car, living in a nice house, seeing so many things around us. How do we get knowledge of the existence of all those things?
Now, something we do subconsciously, I’ll study now, will know it consciously. What’s living in this environment? What we see? Outside and inside? Outside. That thing, That thing. That thing. That thing. Inside. What interest is that thing I notice and I know and I see now is creating within me? The pleasure? Or, not right, I don’t like to see it? Or, I want to have it. Now again I come to another point. What’s that thing within me, as a present day personality creating the desire or the wish to have that or that. What’s that or that to me? To have the desire to have it? Now we get to another side of my present day personality.
Desire. Wish and that sense of having. Why? What is not our whole life, waking consciousness all through the day just that the desire of having? Having what? That and that and that, not only that, also. The attention of the others. Another side of having. To satisfy what we call our egoism. Egoism? Which is really a serpent having the form of our present day personality. Now coming to that part of the subconsciousness, our egoism is just living there. In that part of our subconsciousness by the elementals vibrating in the same rate of vibrations and that egoism vibrates. So now we come to study what we call our self.
Which is not in reality ourself. We have the mistake of ‘ourself’ is the present day personality. But it isn’t [ ]. It is a part of ourself but isn’t ‘ourself’ exactly. Because ourself is something more. So, we start observing and studying our present day personality. Without the help of anyone.
In a lesson we said we are not only the present day personality but we are also
25’00”
a Soul Ego self consciousness. And still more. A Spirit Ego Self consciousness. Yes we are that, but our attention now is on the material things. And we don’t know the way of concentrating our attention in more than one point as a present day personality. As a present day personality we cannot concentrate in more than one point. Suppose we see something and someone is talking to us, we don’t know what thing you notice and the thing we think we are observing. So, the present day personality of the common people cannot concentrate in more than one point. And even so, subconsciously. Mechanically. Not full attention. What is the meditation we are supposed to do? Concentration and observation. At first to be able, as a present day personality to fix fully our attention, on one point, at the beginning. Because the common people cannot fix their attention in two points or on two things. But we have just to train ourselves at the beginning as a present day personality to fix our attention fully now. This is the aim of meditation. Observation. Just try hard to concentrate, not just casually, but painfully to that thing to know it.
So. We start living better. Observing more things in our environment, the place we are living. I have some people coming to me who attended a lesson or two or five or six. “Daskale, we want to have exosomatosis.” Yes. It is the nature of man, when that one learns that there is something, to wish having it or knowing it. And I put the question, “Are you sure?” In your waking consciousness, able to fix your attention on a point fully for some time, not have your attention be drawn somewhere else. Are you sure that starting the observation and meditation you are not taken away by hundreds of other thoughts? I [ ] how can we master our mind? It’s not your mind you are going to master. It’s just to close your self consciousness to that storehouse of your subconsciousness to allow these elementals just coming on the surface. You tell them you don’t need them and you tell them that you don’t want them. Yes of course it needs mastery over the mind. But what they say, to master the mind is not that, to master the mind is to be able make and create living, strong thought forms from the superconsciousness of the MIND which is formless. That I call mastery of the MIND, and not to be able to shut the door of the subconsciousness while elementals there are moving all the time.
30’00”
They want to come to the surface, and disturb your meditation. So we have first of all to check that we can keep away undesirable elementals coming to the surface while we are [ ] the time we are engaged in something else. Mediation or concentration. This is the first step one should take. How you will do that? How shall we silence that part of our subconsciousness which is disturbing, claiming our attention? Can we train ourselves to close ourselves from the influence of the subconsciousness the time that we don’t want it to interfere? Of course we can.
Start observing what comes to your memory. Sit quiet for some time and try to see what comes in your memory. And the other, to see what it comes up. You will see that and that, that thought and that thought and that thought, that image, that thing you remember. Say for five minutes, you sit quiet and just observe. This is what I call observation. What comes in your mind? We call it like that. [ ] After some time, or the next day, do the same thing. Isolate yourself in a room, while you are quiet, and sit now for 10 minutes. Quiet.
I do nothing else than observe what comes in my mind. And see it. Comes that, and that, and that. Say you do that say for a week, checking what comes in your mind, you become the master of banishing them, if you like. But you can’t do it without an effort and doing this exercise for at least a week or fifteen days. So now, I can observe what comes to my mind. Now, I keep my mind silent. And for another week, banish these thoughts away. Come look, I want to be completely quiet. See, nothing. Thinking about nothing. This is the more difficult task to do. But this gives you mastery. Enter in what we call the silence.
Some catholic monks, they say that they enter in the silence for certain hours. I had a Roman Catholic cardinal, he told me, ‘yes, it’s a very, very good habit just isolating yourself and complete silence.’ Silence you mean not talking and not letting others talk to you? Said ‘yes, only when you go there are you sure that you silence now, your subconsciousness?’ I’m afraid, no, no. You don’t call that ‘silence’. Now you must get the art of silencing down the elementals and not people gossiping all around you. By withering in a lowly place, without talking to anybody and not accepting anybody to talk to you,
35’00”
you are not benefitting at all. But you must silence down the elementals. So reach that point of entering in complete, call it blank, blank then? At least for 15 days. The you are in a state to create and concentrate constantly on the elementals you are creating. Then start observing things and repeating them. See something. Close your eyes, and for 5 minutes, hold it before you… size, color, and begin size and color. And then its nature. You come to what point now? You can master your subconsciousness in not allowing it to disturb you.
And then, unless you are able to do that, you cannot really concentrate fully on a point, yet we are in fixing our attentions on a point. After long, long practice, you know more about the nature of your subconsciousness. No need to be taught by anybody. You will find it by observation, and know more about the nature of your subconsciousness. So, when you are trance, you try to fix your attention two points at the same time. Don’t think it’s easy. It’s very difficult. Two things. You have two things. You see them, you said, you mean fixing my attention that thing then the other then back again, No. Fixing your attention on both things at the same time. In your room, apart I would think from the other. See them? Close your eyes, keep the distance. You’re now an atom. Meaning of space, and see them at the same time. What we’ll notice? That seeing them in a distance, when you close your eyes, one then the other. That’s not what we want. Have to create the idea of the distance, of space. And you have to learn what’s space in the fourth dimension. So, see the distance, as you see it, and see them two things at a time.
If you are not able to do it, just a little different, a few feet apart, how you be able to reach your attention in two place? Hundreds of miles away the one from the other. And concentrate there fully, and see everything going on there?
Unless you master the ability to concentrate yourself in a place and see everything fully, how you will claim, being in another place and observe things and see things as they are, fully. So the first thing you have to master is to concentrate and live fully by complete observation.
I’m using new word now, which the Hindus are not using and they don’t
know it what is observation. That’s why they are lacking in their meditation system.
So, say you made things very difficult, Daskale. There is no other way.
40’00”
This is the way, to master what I call mind and train your present day personality, know what is the present day personality. Slowly slowly, you start living fully. You start knowing that now, I know myself, I didn’t know before. I know myself. I know myself better. I know who I am. Before I was living without realizing who I was. Never mind.
Feel that you are Maria and Ed costas ganes. You are on the state of knowing, at least fully now, your present day self. To be able, later, to know more about yourself as Soul self-consciousness. But unless you know fully your present day personality, your ego of your present day personality, how do you expect to know more of yourself as a Soul Self-consciousness? So we have to study things, objects all around us, and then study our present day personality. At the beginning we study subconsciously by concentrating on things. Who is concentrating? Who am I? Who is thinking now of that, or that thing? So subconsciously, you start knowing yourself as a present day personality more than before.
So, shall we have any help from any other sources? Yes, when the other intelligences around us, especially the Holy Spirit, will see that personality, from childish becoming more… say expressing themselves, will help. But don’t expect any help as a present day personality unless you make the start to advance, to wake up. Some point you told me… but are we not living consciously, are we still sleeping? I said then, when you, what I mean to wake up, you will think, you will see that you are not living consciously, all that time.
But semiconsciously? Or unconsciously? When I say unconsciously, I mean having a personality and not behaving properly. So. We need to train our present day personality in getting a natural growing up and in observing, meditating better. Then we come to the real sense of meditation.
Meditate. What does it mean to meditate? From the side of the present day personality, to meditate means fixing the attention at the beginning on one
point, seeing it, tending to know it, by observation, and then, think over the qualities of that thing. What it is.
45’00”
To know more and more and more by observation. Is what I call mediation. How we do that? Because it’s not only fixing your attention, when an object or something around you, and stop there, see the form even by the imprinting ether, closing the eyes and creating the form in size and color. What this skill you have to apply. Mastering it is something more. Enter in the meaning of things. How do that? I give another example.
I give you a grain of what, wheat, you put it on your tongue. There, you see it. It’s something you do easy. Touch it, with your material hand you have it in the palm of the one hand and then touch it to feel it, solid. You can do it with any kind of seeds, but I prefer now wheat. See it. Touch it. Then put it somewhere. Close your eyes. And feel your etheric hand. Create an etheric hand, use your mind. Creative thought. Not imagination now. See it there, begin with your finger of your etheric now hand, touch it and try to feel it solid. It’s what I call concentration only.
[end of tape side]
I repeat it. Put a seed, cover it. In the palm of your hand. Material hand. And with a finger of the other hand, press it and feel it solid. Feel it there, pressing it. Then put it aside. Sit in a place and see your etheric hand now, see the seed there, and with a finger, etheric now, touch it and try to feel it solid. That means using the esthetic ether in the fourth dimensional world. Feel it solid. It’s there we shall start our meditation, in creative thought. What you do. Rest and see your soil. See that you are taking your hands and planting that seed. Planting a hole put it in and covering it with earth. See watering it. See the rain. See there, and try to see it growing. This is meditation. Concentration in meditation means not to be disturbed by any thoughts or other things coming in your mind. See it there.
Here, bursting, feel it, roots, white. Then starting up coming greenish, growing, growing slowly, not just quickly, and see it growing. See it growing, growing and after some time, see even
50’00”
after a time, it having a stalk. See it. Then see a field full of it, ripe for harvest. See a machine just collecting the sheaves and all that and that. Then get one new seed now, from the harvest, and see that you have it in your hand touching it. Stop it, stop the mediation.
Is it real? Some of you have never seen a corn just growing like that. Yet do it and you’ll see it, because you are telling the nature of things. I have then a fellow who said ‘but I have never seen anything like that, I have seen them grown up, plucking him, and do that…” Do it and you’ll see it. You attune yourself to nature, until you do something else then, and with something else and something else. That means see what is taking place in nature.
This is real creative meditation. Know that some Hindu master. Now they can get the seed of a chitle tree. Plant it. Really planting it, not as we said, putting it aside and seeing another seed. They are planting the real seed. They water it and they meditate. Meditate means entering in that place having the seed within them. Once they have do it lead to an exosomatosis. And they make it grow. Grow. Grow. And all sit around them will see it growing. Growing really. And even, in a few hours time, they will see the tree. With fruit. He will pluck one and give it to anyone.
I heard a scientist, not just a curious fellow who went to India, he went there and he tasted such a fruit. Said, ‘how is that possible? Daskale, is that possible?’ I said yes, in two ways. It took you long, seeing the thing grow. Some seven or eight hours. That means he did the real sit-grow. Otherwise, if it was in five minutes, I would tell you he just exercised a hypnotic trance in you to see what he wanted you to see. But in that case it was not just hypnotism, but a real thing. Of course, few can do that. But I am wondering… having all this power of materialization and visualization and using the imprinting ether perfectly…. use it for this purposes, just to make some curious people there see this phenomenon. While he could use all that force in curing people? Really, I don’t understand the behavior of certain Hindu men. What for do that? Yes, that can be done. It is possible. But why waste so much energy? Vitality. With that vitality, he could cure hundred or more people. Was it reasonable of him to do that? Anyway, it’s not up to me to judge, it’s something I wouldn’t do.
He asked me ‘could you do that’? Definitely I can. Anyone who knows the
materialization can do it. What for? Nature is doing it this moment in thousands of thousands
55’00”
places. In the right time. Not in speeding up time. So I don’t find it serious things to do, just like that, and waste what I call the Holy supersubstance of the MIND. Why do what is the duty of the Holy Archangels to do? We can see this phenomenon all around us, day and night. Trees growing and giving fruit. You know it’s done by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels.
So. What I want to say is this. Things are possible, but we should be careful in how we are to use our skill. There are so many people suffering. He could use meditation, concentration and materialization in doing something precious, good. He could cure somebody who is lame for years and years and years. But what really I don’t understand about these Hindu people there… they don’t want to interfere with the karma of patients! Why they don’t do it I don’t understand. We can change karma to the permissible point. But they don’t try even to change karma to the permissible point. They just do not like to interfere at all, and show what phenomena for what purpose? To make scientists, Europeans and Americans see things and just … amazing!…
So, why I am mentioning that thing? If you master MIND, you can do many, many, many things, you never imagine is possible to be done. But definitely become a healer for God’s sake! Mental healer, psychical healer… not a magician! For me that’s a curse and not a blessing. Not a magician, for the sake of phenomena. At least this is something, in our Researches after Truth which we are not allowing. Definitely.
So. Come back to our lesson. How we start to master our mind? This is not the real term. I would say getting the skill of using the MIND properly. I think that’s better than ‘mastering the mind’. Our mind is not really to be mastered. But make good use of supersubstance of the MIND. How we start? Because most of you are eager to know the way. By concentration, meditation and observation. To observe what is going on, which means entering in the relative truth about something. The relative truth. The absolute truth is not in the material world. Or in the psychical world or in the mental world. The truth, the real truth is not here in the worlds of illusions.
But we can know the relative truth concerning circumstances and things happening all around us. So the relative truth, we can know it by concentration, mediation and especially observation.
So. We start work.
60’00”
What for? To be able to use the supersubstance of the MIND in all the rates of vibration of it, even matter, to cure people around us. To show miracles? I said in many lessons that there are not miracles for me. For me these events in time in space, in the worlds of illusion. There’s only one miracle: life. Life is a miracle. But not phenomena. Have that in your mind.
So. What is… because among you now, there is psychotherapists who have been practicing for years as …. I know… with what success I don’t know, you know better. You must train now yourself to have successes. You must have observed that the time you are not fully, just, in yourself, feeling absent minded, you could do very very little. So to do more, means to be yourself. 100% yourself. Have the attention, the ability to observe things, [ ], to express the vibrations of your psychical body to see the result. To see the result, not just with your eyes - cause maybe the patient will be away but see results means have the results of curing people.
So. What you need is feel fully. Live fully. Feel you are there for this one and see that you are trained to make thought-forms, elementals, creative elementals. How you do that? First you’ll be able to fill your hand with vitality. Many of your hands, either with massage or something else, and using… that they are creative, your hands. Yes, a little bit, I agree to that. But do you do that consciously? So practice to see your hand with your mind, feel your hand, and fill it and see if full of energy. Have a certain time in a day. Five minutes are enough. Put your material hand on a table with a white cloth, and feel it. For this five minutes no thoughts. Nothing at all. No.. nothing will distract your attention. Feel the hand. Be in the hand. Move the fingers. Feel the hand, the material hand. And with your thought, imprinting ether, see if full of light. White light. What will happen? When you fill it for some time 2 or 3 minutes. Said I want at least five minutes. You’ll feel it. Some things in the hand. Don’t be afraid. The hand is now full of etheric energy. Feel it.
Tostvie, of our Research after Truth in Cyprus told me, ‘Yes Daskale, but in a moment, I couldn’t feel it!’. Oh, you are feeling it, you thought you could not feel it. “I felt it’s full of blood.”
65’00”
Feel it like that, it doesn’t matter. But see with your mind, in imprinting ether, it’s full of energy. “After five minutes, I was obliged just to rub myself.” Do. Never mind, you’ll feel it like that. But you fill it with energy.
It’s what you say, because the subconsciousness obeys orders. I did this exercise. And this hand will be full of energy any time I want to use it. No need the time you have a patient, start filling your hand with energy. No, order your subconsciousness. You said the subconsciousness is not reasoning, but is obeying. Any time I will have to use this material hand it will be over full with energy, any time I want it. And you will wonder that when you have it and you have to pass your hand, it’s full of energy. Feel it. See it.
So. I said we need practice using the kinetic ether, the esthetic ether, and the imprinting ether. Now your heart is full of energy, but Humans use the kinetic ether, not only esthetic ether. When I touch my heart, etheric vitality will flow from my hands in the body, or in the ‘opran?’ in the body of the fellow who wants it. So I want the kinetic ether with the esthetic ether. So the exercises I gave you in using the esthetic kinetic and imprinting ether are most valuable, and you need them. Without these exercises you will not be able to get the skill of doing things. [ ] Through your subconscious and ordering it, the hand will be over-full with energy vitality. And seeing it with imprinting ether, filling it, this etheric vitality is to go in the suffering body.
Of course you have now, when this vitality is in the body to use it [ ]. How? It obeys. At the beginning, subconsciously. You feel that ‘I can do that and that and that’. Slowly slowly, you enter in the patient, and you are bring(ing) things inside the body of the patient yourself. How this happens, in the course of time, you can [ ]. What can we do.
Now, the statues you see, in India, shows some goddesses and gods with many many hands. And creatures call the midoliters. Nothing more stupid. Those many hands mean that you can create etheric hands to use them as you use your material hands. How? Suppose there is something in the
body of somebody. You cannot just make your material hand in, piercing the body. But you can put your etheric hand there. You have just to dematerialize a clot, if it’s permitted. Or you have in the spine a ‘justiamosis’, or you have to dimaterialize - how you do it - have to put your etheric hands inside, and with the feeling ether, feel them there, make them there semi-solid, and dissolve it.
Now, it’s easy to say what is done, but it is not easy to explain to you how to do it. You must get the skill, those who are practicing now, to be psychotherapists. Only two persons in Cyprus
70’00”
have succeeded to do that. And really, I should like to see more do things. You say ‘yes’, but what about the willpower. We don’t have a strong willpower. What does it mean, not having strong willpower? The willpower is WILLpower. It is a matter of getting interested in that something to access your willpower. I’ve never see anyone with a weak willpower. I had a fellow who was saying all the time ‘oh I don’t have a willpower and I suffer because of it… I don’t have a willpower and all that and that.’ He was a heavy smoker. He didn’t have to smoke. I told the other ‘don’t give him any’. But, oh, he couldn’t concentrate on the lesson. Because I saw him and all the time he wanted to smoke. Told him, ‘you don’t have any here’. He said ‘Sir, will you excuse me for a while.’ Alright. He had a motorcycle. He got the motorcycle. He came after an hour. He went kilometers away… it was Sunday and all the shops were closed…he went and forced a man come and open his shop and give him cigarettes. And he came here and told him ‘you don’t have a willpower’. What to do all these things just to get cigarettes to smoke. You had that willpower to go and do it and you say you have no willpower?
So. All have strong willpower once they decide and want to exercise it. There is nobody without willpower. So one should exercise their willpower. You will exercise your willpower. How? By interested in something and deciding to do it. Once you decide to do it and you are interested in what you are supposed to do, you see that the willpower comes to the surface, and will be very strong willpower. There is nobody without willpower.
Now what I want to say for the psychotherapists who are attending this lesson now. Get really interested in what you are going to do. Feel that you
are interested to do it. And decide to do it. You need more qualifications. Love. Love the people who come to you, known or unknown. Among the known, people will come to you maybe they will be some people you would call them your enemies. You don’t have enemies. You have people there who are more in need of you than those who are called your friends.
So, circumstances around you should not influence you. You get a decision, and do that with all your heart to all. No exception. Then you’ll see the results. Definitely you’ll have results. Do we have results? Well I will not reply to this question, you reply to this question who have see such results many many times. Do we have results? But to have these results, you must all the time love everyone.
I had some fellows who said, ‘yes, sometime are coming to me people I don’t like to meet them. I don’t know why, but I feel
75’00”
I don’t like them.’ I said, ‘you’ll never become a psychotherapist. Give it up. What does it mean you don’t like…” “I don’t know. There are people really I like them. And other people I feel I don’t like them. I want them to go away.”
People who are under these illusions cannot become psychotherapists. You must just convince your subconsciousness, because they are tricks of the egoism and the subconsciousness… that every living human being coming to me is my brother… you will not call him ‘yourself’.
And so, start loving and doing the work of the psychotherapist. Then you will have successes. There is not anything as ‘choose’ whom you will treat. You tell me, all people who are coming to you, you feel you like them. Since there are people who radiate just this kind of energy that makes them not lovable.
Yes, there are some people all around us… their behavior, the way they are living, is making all other people around them feel that they do not like them.
But I have ordered my subconscious already not to [ ] with, I am not the one to judge them. If they are good, or not. They come to you, they are part of yourself, all your brothers, sisters. You cannot see in any other way.
So, by deciding so, you love people. You must love people. And to love people is something that you must just train your subconsciousness to do it. Because this subconsciousness or our egoism, disguised as the subconsciousness is playing at many, many tricks. So you must get of the tricks of the egoism, or of your subconsciousness. How? By starting living the principles and not liking or disliking. By the time you are meditating or making your prayers…it’s the same thing… meditating or making your prayers…it’s just the same thing, to whom you make your prayers is immaterial. Can you make your prayers OR you meditate deeply, making a prayer means meditate deeply. Tell… order your subconsciousness and the also then your present day personality that I live with Principles Now. And not being influenced by the thoughts or the emotions of those all around me.
This will not affect me, and principles are that as Christ said. No only Love your neighbor as yourself, but love your enemies, he said. So Christ gave us principles, with which we should live not only accepting them…yes they are right, Christ said that. Love your enemies. Not only that, but just living with them, you are now in a position to feel yourself Strong in God. I don’t know if you understand what I mean
80’00”
feeling Strong in God. Because you feel that that’s THE will of God. That’s why you are feeling Strong. But you must decide before anything else to find these principles, with which principle you are going to live. And what about our emotions. Yes. Clean the emotions, but you must decide before anything else to find these principles, with which principle you are going to live. And what about our emotions. Yes. Clean the emotions with the principles.
Our emotions are getting the shade and the color of our present day personality’s egoism. But they can be cleaned, our emotions, with our principles. Is that the word principles? Ah yes.
So. We have to clean our emotions and our thoughts, definitely, because the thoughts are influenced by the emotions. And now we came to a position our thoughts are not to be the slaves of the emotions. But be masters of the emotions. How? By using reason.
Using reason means using the MIND in the right way. Now again, what do we mean, reason? What does it mean, being reasonable? Yes, the egoism will come now with new tricks. Two measures. No we want one measure. Reason means generally the same behavior to all, and toward ourselves. Because sometime people think that this and that thing is very reasonable as long as that thing is just for their interests. So, we are not going to use reason with our measures of interest, but in the light of principles.
So, this means that we should start with absolute sincerity for our work and be sincere with ourselves. Unless we start like that, we’ll have in front of us, every step egoism is my stepping stone, or none way.
So, decide. Before studying the work of a psychotherapist, psychiatrist, to have as your principle: Love.
Second, be sincere with yourself that you will do that because this is the will of the Infinite Beingness. Which is the will of the Infinite Beingness? Every living being to be healthy. How do we come to this point? Of course, if we inflict a wound on the foot of somebody, and keep it clean, the Holy Spirit tends to cure it. That means the will of God is that a living being should be healthy. It is not difficult to understand the will of the Infinite Beingness. Of the Lord, of the Logos… call the Infinite Beingness in any way you like.
So, and the psychotherapist must know that with what he is doing, he just in the right way of nature, in the natural course of things, and the will of God. He is not going against the will of God. So he shouldn’t bother about what we call karma or the Law of Destiny. Let the Lord decide. You do all the time the same to all and leave
85’00”
the results to the will of God.
So, when even you acquire all the skill, and all these, if I call them ‘powers’, do you think you’ll have the same results to all people? No.
What you do to a man and you see him quite capable, walking, and people would call it ‘miracle’, you will do the same thing to another man, less ill,
and you will see not.
You cannot see, just some result. Some result you will see. But the results you would like and would expect to see. Of course give it up? No. Pray again. And Try again. And if in the third time, you see that you don’t have these results you expect, then give it up. The will of God is this thing, to come later. Not that time.
So when people are asking for help, what do we say? We promise nothing, and we disclose nothing, because we are not the ones to decide. It’s the Absolute Beingness, the will of God.
So. Questions now, if you have any. Usually morning has questions. Yes. Louder.
Q: Last time you gave us an exercise moving the esthetic and kinetic ether, and said we should not use the head-fa.
D: For the time being.
Q: But I love very much the exercise in the book written by Markides from the feet up to the head, and I like that exercise
D: Well I give the exercise now. We gave the exercise, filling the belly with the white-bluish light, filling the chest with the rosy light, and we said the thyroid, with the orange light. And the ball as big as a tennis ball. And then I said the whole head will be in a ball of golden light. And of course that ball will be say, a foot around the head. And the light will be also in the head. You’ll close your eyes and see that your head is in that ball of golden light. So it will radiate like the sun. You go to the Greek churches you will see that around the heads of the Saints.
So. Feel the head in this golden light. Piercing… I don’t want, now, any kinetic ether… we wanted kinetic ether in the belly and in the chest. Feel the whole head in that white light. No kinetic ether, but as esthetic ether. You feel it.
Now, here is a difficulty. To feel it doesn’t mean to concentrate stubbornly in the head, because this will cause you headache. You cause more circulation of the blood in your head, that’s not what we want. That’s why
we didn’t give this exercise before. But feel it gently.
You will see that feeling the head, your lips will not be just like the eyes, or the nose, or the ears or something like that, to move by an effort that I concentrate there, so I don’t want concentration there in the usual way. Simply feel it gently, without any effort.
90’00”
and with imprinting ether, see the golden color. Cleaning what now, you are in the head. The mental body. With the exercise in the chest, you clean your psychical body, because your psychical body all the time you are awakened, is in your material body. With this exercise the golden color, you clean your mind body. Your noetical body. But now you have to use the head again, and the mind. When you are calm there, you will feel that you are thinking with your heart now, not your head. Say it. I want peace. I want to use my mind with reason. Just make these thoughts. Now, I said what you will notice. When you enter in the head, this way, as that to think that, you’ll feel the heart. Try it.
But when you are feeling the chest or the belly, you don’t feel the heart. You feel the lung, you feel the air, but you don’t feel the heart. I mean the etheric heart. But when you make this exercise this time you start thinking all these thoughts, you’ll feel your heart. What does it mean? That the Logos is ready to help you. And the seat of the Logos is in the heart. So the time you are concentrating in the head, noticing the heart, you’ll see a six pointed star in the chest. Without even forming it. You’ll feel it and you’ll see it.
Because the six pointed star is real, is not something to do it as an elemental. It is a real symbol. So, this is why I didn’t want to give it at that time in this exercise. But now you do it, try to do it. Calmly, without any effort. With imprinting ether, see this ball of light in the head and around the head. See it. Without an effort, observation now, feeling it as esthetic ether can feel it. Don’t you feel your heart now? It’s something you’ll notice, and with your thoughts say “I’ll be the master of my thoughts and my emotions. My thoughts and my emotions under my command and reason. Now most of you have gathered blood in the head. No. Concentrate in the head will…
[end of tape]