1989.11.13
November 13, 1989 Part B Stoa Lesson by Daskalos
So, in our bodies, in our material body, in our psychical body, in our mental body, in our etheric doubles of these bodies, we can meet our Michael, our Gabriel, our Raphael, since we have the habit of possessiveness, and what is in it we call it ours. While I say, rather, we belong to them, not they to us. Never mind. Let us be human and say ‘our Michael, our Gabriel, our Raphael’ this will not displease them. Don’t worry. They will like it.
So, constantly under the orders of the Holy Spirit of course the Infinite Beingness and the Holy Spirit, and as the Logos, the Holy Archangels, are working and building, our material body, the etheric double, our psychical body, the etheric double, and our mental body, and the etheric double. Building to keep it in good health, so it’s natural to be in good health, to be ill is unnatural.
So, using creatively the formless supersubstance of MIND, in building up our bodies. But now, no constructor will start building just a construction, a building, unless he’s given a plan from the Architect. So a plan has to be prepared by the Architect. And according to the plan, the constructor, the foremen, and the workers will build the construction. Now the masons are
right in calling the Infinite Beingness the ‘chief mason’. They call him max, which means the Greatest Architect of the Universes. Or Megas as he desto do sumbanto.
So, there should be a plan. What is the plan given to the Holy Archangels? For building, for working, for keeping working? The Idea of Man. The Heavenly Man. So all of us are sons or daughters of Man. The Heavenly Man. That’s the plan for humanity the Holy Archangels are working with. So we said, ‘in each human being, in his material body, in his psychical body, and in his mental body, there is a Michael, a Raphael, a Gabriel, a Uriel, and also a Shamael (for the skeleton). They built,’ I said, ‘the bodies. The material body, the etheric double, the psychical body, the etheric double, the mind body the mental body, its etheric double.’ They are the workers. Our brothers. Never getting tired, Loving us. Working in our bodies.
But now we spoke about a present day personality. Who is building the present day personality? The Archangels? No. The Logos. That’s why we say we are Logoic.
5’00”
The Logos is building the present day personality. But Shamael interferes as the devil as the church is calling it, so that we have the conflict. So we have the present day personality, a different entity from the bodies, yet using the bodies. The present day personality lives in the material body by grace, and not by authority. Because the present day personality knows nothing and is doing nothing for the material body besides getting ready-made food for it to eat, and wash it.
What can you do for your material body? Nothing. But now, as regards the psychical body, it’s around that that the present day personality is built up. The emotions, the desires, the intentions. Now the same mechanism of what we call the mind as subconsciousness. It was I lesson I gave you this morning. From that very moment, the subconsciousness gets the dual function. Under the orders of the Holy Spirit and the Archangels is building the bodies, but the other side is what it creates, the consciousness. And then, the consciousness is the surface, and the subconsciousness, the depth. So we’ll say that the consciousness and the subconsciousness are one. Yes, the same way the ocean has a surface. The surface is the
consciousness. The whole ocean is the subconsciousness.
So, we start now as an entity people separate entity, living our own lives. Now we have male and female. The Holy Archangels are doing that, obeying certain other orders. But now I have and entity we call the present day personality, extended to the permanent personality, which must hold the reality so that the present day personality in that illusion we call space and time, will not be lost.
So we have that constant, steady part, which we call our permanent personality, which is a line with two ends. Now if we have a big line with two ends, and we have a point in between the two ends, that I mean in the middle part of the line, from the middle part of the line to the outer point which is the Ego-self or the Soul-Self, is bright light.
But from the center of the line to the other side, we have all kinds of colors, we may call them dirty. That’s the present day personality. Now, from that point to the other side which is not the clean one, we separate the line in three parts. One is the physical body, one is the psychical body, and the other is the mind-mental body. So we have a line divided in four parts. Half of it is the three parts: physical body, psychical body and mental body, and the other part freely and always… never getting dirty, is our permanent personality or our Ego-Soul personality.
What is then reincarnation? And who is reincarnating? The withdrawn gradually in time
10’00”
of we say, the current part of the line, first withdrawing only to the second psychical plane and then to the mental plane and then to the center of it… is the present day personality. Reexpanding again, recreating those three states, is the new incarnation. But what is the relation between the one incarnation and the other incarnation?
Who… both are in the illusion of time… no relation. That’s our difference from what we believe is reincarnation and what the others, the Hindus or even some English people are saying reincarnation.
So the one reincarnating is our Ego permanent personality or Soul
personality, which bring the sum total of the experiences of an incarnation to give them not as memories of events, but as lessons which have been learned to the new personality. This is the only relation we have with our old personalities. And no personality of a man can remember a previous incarnation unless its consciousness extends from the temporary to her eternal inner self, the Ego-self consciousness, which knows everything, lives in everything.
So, of course this is something the masters are not ready now, either to reveal, or to teach how to do it before we purify and clean our present day personality.
Are their dangers for that? Instead of advancing, going backwards. That’s why the Divine Mercy of the Lord has withdrawn the memory of past incarnations to the new incarnation, to give it time to advance. Because there is also something in common with the past incarnations. The new incarnation has the sum total of the lessons learned, without remembering events. Because remembering events may drive her back.
Now, we have [ ] some of them geniuses. Others, they are not. They have a talent. What’s a talent? Experience gained from previous incarnation. But not necessary for them to remember events, maybe painful events. But have only the experience of the lessons gained. So researchers after truth study the present day personality - his present day personality - and the next day show of others around them, not as a present day personality studying but as an Ego-self personality can convey to his present day personality the wisdom. You’ll tell me know ‘are you do one, yourself?’ Say yes.
I am a name, way of feeling, thinking, and I-am-I. How I am doing? I am Stylius. A made person. But I-am-I who can control Stylius and his emotions and his thoughts. Yet I am one. I’m a line with two points. Everyone is dual. Even Christ, the Logos, the Lord, was dual. ‘I and the Father are One’.
15’00”
So, the duality is a law. I don’t know if that duality is also amongst the Archangels creating, but I will study it. Of course I don’t have time, the pain around us is so strong that we don’t have time to study things, but to give
help. As brethren of mercy. But here again, why? Why the Heavenly Man as a plan to be worked out by the Holy Archangels our brethren? Create a man in duality. Two lobes of brain, two eyes, two nostrils, two ears, two lungs, even the heart has four chambers. Two and two. Then we have two other organs… the liver and the spleen, for a man, two balls, for the woman, two ovaries. Why two? Two feet, two hands, why?
Of course, I say I don’t have time to study that, getting the wisdom of the Architects that means my brethren, the Holy Archangels. Let it be in the future. But we tell you, are you in touch with the Archangels? Or affiliated with the Archangels? The Michaels, the Gabriels, the Raphaels, the Uriels? Yes, if you are affiliated with your Michael in you, the Gabriel in you, the Raphael in you, you are with all. Because we said the Archangels are systems, and the one are all and the all are one. They are not just like the human beings in the world of separateness. These are different from our brothers the Archangels.
Are the Archangels feeling sorry or feeling the joy? Yes, they are feeling it, because they are intelligences. Never mind that they have the super-consciousness, and one who has gained his superconsciousness can come in touch with them and understand them, because they are behaving, creating superconsciously.
It’s rather difficult to explain. But, they feel joy. What Christ says? Joy is in your Angels in Heaven for everyone returning. Returning means what? Finding the truth in him. So, the Archangels feel grief and joy. When we are doing wrong things, do they feel sorry? Especially our Guardian Angel the metathronios? Yes, but their sorry is different from our sorry. And their joy is different from our joy. Very different.
On many occasions, I tried to attune myself with them, to understand what is their joy. I succeed only to a limited extent to understand it. Why? Because my human brain are not able… is incapable of receiving those joy vibrations of our Archangel. But sometimes when I will develop them to the extent that they will not be dealt by full attunement with them… maybe I’ll do it.
Now, our contact, myself and them, are not through the material brains, because there is a danger of being burned. To attune myself with them, I must
20’00”
get out of my material body, out of my psychical body, and out of my mental body, remain I-am-I, and then it’s possible to attune myself with any of any order of Archangels. I have done it on many occasions. It was their desire, their wish. When I am, most of them say ‘how do I look, now?’, in what I call, in the fire element. One of the … with the Michaels, I am a Michael. With the Gabriels, a Gabriel. With the Uriels, a Uriel. With the Raphaels, a Raphael. Of course those will be very advance and we’ll make exercises on the symbol of life, it will be taught be me the way to attune themselves with their brethren the Archangels IN them and outside of them.
So. Can a Michael attune himself with a Gabriel? No. Can a Raphael attune himself with a Raphael? I think not.
So we are privileged to have through our consciousness then the superconsciousness, what I say attunement, then at-one-ment. These are great, great words, which very few understand their meaning. What we call attunement and at-one-ment.
These are the roads leading us to our Ego-Spirit Self, who is god. Then you realize who you are. When one, as Jesus Christ said, returns to that state of conception, they feel great joy. Such a great joy that really, we cannot understand it, as human beings. Our joy is childish joy. Their joy is the joy of the Infinite Beingness. Of our Father in Heaven. But now again, in the world of separateness, there is grief, or sorrow. Is the grief in the higher realms? Beyond the MIND? When I say ‘beyond the MIND’, I mean ‘beyond the MIND in forms?’ No. Happily there is not grief. But grief is the characteristic of the world of separateness. And as long as the Archangels enter in a way, a serious way, they cannot understand in our worlds as cooperators for the creation, they feel sorry. But that sorry, their sorrow, is not our sorrow. It is very different. Maybe it is what it gives us, the stings of conscience - ness. Giving us the lessons which we have to learn. Even Christ, who’s God himself, Son of God, was the Master of everything… of the material plane, transforming energy into matter, into bread and fish and feeding so many thousands, was the Master of everything… of the material, of the psychical, and the mental sides of his existence…
25’00”
Definitely very different to ours… what did he say? ‘Anima ad jusqua ad not’ ‘Anima mer algo gasia’ was feeling being a Soul, he was feeling sorry.
So sorrow touches even our permanent personality, and is touching us as our Soul Ego self. But beyond that, there is no grief, there is no sorrow. What is there? Tranquility at first, peace, silence, and then what is after this? Bliss? What is bliss? Pleasure? What is there? What the church says Reverend Father for that? Beatitude. That’s beatitude. Margariotis… you have words… even you have them in latin… but I don’t know if the English people have such words. They say Bliss and with the word Bliss they think they finish. So is that beatitude? We call it? Yes, beatitude. Sanu… yes, that’s it in German… beatitude.
So. I’ve spoken about our brothers, the Archangels. Each one of you in your body, your psychical body and your mind body and one Michael, one Gabriel, one Raphael, one Shamael, and one Uriel, and other servants, working for you. Building up your bodies. For you as a present day personality and as an Ego-Soul personality living in a material body. So the material body, as the church says, is a temple of God.
And we are living in these bodies by grace, and not by authority. Of course, we do nothing for the bodies. Now, do we give thanks to our brothers for their valuable work in keeping our bodies in good health? Who is giving them thanks… we should give them thanks. Now what’s a prayer? Because people do not know how to pray. What’s a prayer? Just repeating words without meaning, and the time we are just praying mechanically, thinking about something else.
I had a friend who was just saying the prayers, and then he said ‘Did I say that?’ So what’s prayer now? Concentrating ourself to the highest meanings. Thanksgiving. Giving thanks to the Archangels, to the Holy Spirit, to the Absolute Beingness. Thanks at the beginning, love following the thanks. Ask, shall we ask for that or that? Jesus Christ permits it himself “Ask and it will be given to you”. But he said that to the Stiff Necked Jews. What about the Christians, he said “Your Father knows what you are in need of, and he will provide you.” Yet he gave us the Sunday prayer, “Give us this day our daily bread” as if we doubt that he will give us our daily bread. I think, yes, the Researchers after Truth they may repeat
30’00”
the Lord’s Prayer… you say that in German, ‘Give us our daily bread’, perfect, because if it just to repeat it, but the reality is we should give thanks only. And glorification. Never mind, we say that for the others, not for us. We can just reasoning in this way. So I think everyone should give thanks to the Intelligences. We say Holy Archangels. Now are the Archangels thinking? Since they are using MIND of course they’re thinking. But how they are thinking? The way we are thinking? They are thinking creatively.
Their thought creates. The human beings had that creative thought. They have abused that, made very bad use of it, even fighting, using the elements, the fire and all that. So the Absolute Beingness decided to withdraw from the human race the creative thinking. That means thought to create. Shall we regain it again? Yes. The psychotherapist is partially regaining when they become master of matter, and by visualization. And their will. And attunement to the Intelligences. Can make those phenomena. People called me that, but I said again I repeat… ‘There are No miracles’. Everything that takes place in nature is a phenomenon. Its only one miracle. Life.
Living is a miracle.
So. Do the Archangels have a language of their own? What’s impulses? Because I am sure that St. Paul was in conscious communication with the Archangels. What does he say? If I talk all the languages of men and of the Angels, and I don’t have love, I am nothing. I am just like an instrument causing noise. Do the Archangels have a language of their own? I tell you yes. Different? The Michaels, the Gabriels, and the Raphaels, are talking different language? Yes. But, known to all. If you put me the question ‘Do you know the language of the Archangels? I tell you ‘yes, I do’. But is the language of the Archangels sounds and words? No.
It’s reflection of light. And shades making you understand what they want to make you understand. Now, how you will understand it? Human beings cannot understand it unless they know their language. But when you advance to the mental plane, and you read the thoughts of men, when they are thinking in English, you are feeling them and you think you are hearing them speaking Greek. Only a language. Which means the vibrations create
that familiar think in you to make you hear in your own language. So apart from the sounds and the words are the meanings and the vibrations. The mental reading you translate the vibrations.
So, the languages of the Archangels are vibrations, of love, and understanding. Any Archangels can know the language of any other Archangel of any other order.
35’00”
though… they have different shades. What are the shades for? Beauty. They give you their own beauty. And there is a different beauty of the expression of the Raphaels from the expression of the Michaels and the Gabriels.
But I cannot explain more. Yet I tell you I can understand it. And the language of the Archangels is so sweet. You know that those how play music, who know music can attune themselves more easily to the language of the Archangels. Because they can hear Divine symphonies, with meaning. So, its rather musical. They talk, maybe you’ll hear what we call ‘the music of the spheres’. It is. It is the talking of the Archangels, between them.
So, it is things that it is very difficult to explain. And I wish all you will reach someday that point of hearing it. That doesn’t mean what we call clairaudience, it is something still higher, higher, beyond what you call ecstasies.
To go to the realm of the real super-consciousnesses. Attunement and at-one-ment.
Any questions?
Q: One thing I didn’t quite understand. Why was the plan to create man in duality?
D: I wish I knew it. But I said I may find out, but I don’t have time for that. [ ] this is my question. This is my question. But do we have time for that? As long as there is so much pain all around us? And you have to serve.
Q: Could we assume that if we didn’t have duality then there wouldn’t be any experience?
D: I don’t have come to conclusions without being 100% sure. Because even in telling something, because even know I have been misunderstood because they say sometimes different things outside they say different things, and they think that I am saying mistakes. There are no mistakes. Because they are not [sight?] as mistakes to be corrected, but tools to be more of them and more of them. [ ] I don’t know.
This law of duality, now studying it now in what I call the dialogue in you between your present day personality and your subconsciousness. And we come to another point. Is that dual dialogue in you yourself as present day personal with your subconsciousness, or it is something among between you and your permanent personality? Now, it’s both. So you must be in a state to separate the one case from the other case. So it is not an easy task to come to conclusions without just being 100% sure. For these are very very difficult things, especially getting to conclusions in the world of illusions. But it doesn’t mean that we should just not trust our minds in learning. Slowly slowly, we will reach the truth.
Yes. So I wish I knew.
Q: Did you mention color Shamael is? The color of Shamael?
D: The color of Shamael? Yes, I will tell you.
40’00”
Shamael is imitating the Infinite Beingness color. The Infinite Beingness color, as Logos, and as Holy Spirit have the color yellow. You see it.
Shamael has a kind of yellow which is like mustard yellow. Now, just compare your trousers, with that color yellow, there is a relation, isn’t it? But it’s not the color yellow which is light. But of course it is different from the red, blood red color of Michael, or the violet color of Raphael, or all the blues of the bluish color of Gabriel. There is a relation, what? The earth, a rock, it’s yellowish. There are yellow rocks there, not canary yellow. It’s a solid yellow. And what he does, he tries to imitate, in his work, the Logos color. What’s the Logo’s color? And the Holy Spirit’s color? White… snow
white.
The first expression, you see it on the symbol of life, everything’s above that thing. That’s why your bones have the white color. That was from a mystery until I was in touch with him, and I saw his work. Then I understood that he imitated, like an ape, the work of the Logos. That’s why many Hindus are calling Shamael ‘the ape’. Just imitating. Just a monkey, just imitating.
Well, does Shamael have intelligence? I can see intelligence, highly intelligent Michael. Superconsciousness. Highly intelligent Raphael. High intelligent Gabriel. High intelligent Uriel. I have never seen an intelligent Shamael. But I see a cunning Shamael. He has a kind of big cunning. Cleverness. That’s why he’s just catching sometimes our subconsciousness and is playing tricks to us. And so we must get rid of him. He’s the builder of our egoism. He doesn’t like you will kill your egoism. He’s the Minotaur in the Maze, according to the Greek mythology. The Christian religion call it the devil. But is he the devil? Is he evil? He’s a policeman even because he’s catching the thieves. He is working in the Divine Plan.
Q: As one polarity?
D: That’s it. And he maybe is the Lord of the World of Separateness. He has is oar in the creation. Of course we can not say publicly much, and now start praising him. The reverend Father would not like it. [laughter]
Anyhow, he is playing his part in the creation. And there is something else.
45’00”
There is no evil which is not giving a most precious lesson. The Ancient Greeks said, [greek words], which means, ‘there is nothing evil, which is not giving the lesson for good.’
So it isn’t misplaced, it’s needed. And of course some people are telling me, why did you, why did you not tell us and we made so many mistakes, and I said ‘If I tell you you will not learn it, maybe you’ll oppose.’ By doing mistakes, now you learn.
This means that you get direct knowledge by your mistakes. Am I right or wrong? Because sometime I have this situation… why you didn’t tell us? Cause if you tell us, we’ll not do that mistake. You did that mistake now, now you know it was a mistake.
Q: Would they have listened?
D: Is the human nature to listen, or to object?
Q: Someone complained to me and said “why didn’t Daskalos advice Markarios?
D: Do you think that Markarios would listen to me? I loved him, and that was all. And he love me, and that was all. Advise him what? On one occasion, of course I was upset. I have said him something, which in tape which theosis and the Bishop knew to give to him. And then I repented. [ ] Peter there then. Because I told him you are the cause of all evil inside for us. Why you excommunicated, I said, bishops. Why you make them your enemies? And due to that, I said, our churches are in the hands, I said, now of the Muslims. And you are responsible for that. But of course, he heard that. A bishop now, told him, ‘oh, he shouldn’t say that’, no. He’s the voice of my conscience. But really Father, I shouldn’t say that.
[end of recording.]