1989.11.23 Daskalos-Nov-23-1989-A-Feet-2-Walk-Wings-2-Fly.mp3 Transcript. transcription by rhr
Good morning. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed by thy name. Thy
kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is on heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions as we are forgiving those who are transgressions against us, and lead us while being in temptation, deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power and the glory, forever. Absolute Infinite Beingness, God, everlasting life, love and mercy, manifesting yourself in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightiness, enlighten our minds to understand you are the truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen.
Many many times, we have just said a great, great truth which great ones, all through the past centuries found out. All of them found the same truth. Never mind that they are using different words in expressing this great truth. That of course, there is the Absolute Infinite Beingness we call it the Absolute Infinite Reality which is the everlasting Life. There had never been any time God or the Absolute Infinite Beingness or the Absolute Infinite Reality or the Absolute Infinite Selfhood was not a reality in itself. And was not existing, that means manifesting itself in itself.
Great truths. You accept them, but you are flying with thought. As far and as strong as our noetical wings can allow us to fly. By thought. But we shall see things today from a different point of view. More practical, more tangible. More human. So. What is life? Yes, we can say it is the Absolute Infinite Beingness, it is the everlasting life, it is the everlasting selfhood and all that. Yes, that’s true but for us, what’s life?
We must start walking, like little children, before running, and before developing noetical wings to fly. So, from human point of view. From [harosha stack?]. What life, the Absolute Infinite Beingness, Absolute life… it is not possible to understand for the time being, I mean the common people all around us. What’s hydrogen? Who knows? But all know what is a glass of water. Only scientists know what’s hydrogen.
What’s the Absolute Infinite Life? It’s not easy or possible to know, as long as we are feeling being human beings in an everyday life. With the interests of a human being. But we can understand what is
5’00”
our life. We are living. This is for us a reality. We are living in a human
body. It’s also a reality. We can touch it. We can feel it. We feel we are living in it. But is that the reality? It’s a different point of view to see. For us it is a reality. We are living in a human body. And common people do not think about any other body. Though they are using other bodies also. The etheric double. The so-called psychical body, a noetical body, the noetic reality, and all that.
But we said, we better start learning how to walk on solid ground. We know, and for us it is a reality that we are living as human beings, and we can express as self… which self wants to know? What is his or her life? And then what is life in general?
Now life is one, but the life of every human being is different. So we make from life, as a principle, we are living… that’s the principle of life. Our own life. Now what is our own life? Studying the life of two people, male or female, we’ll find out that it is very different. The way of thinking, feeling, expressing interests. So, if we have billions of human beings, we have billions of kinds of life. It’s all life. They are living. They are expressing an I-ness. And Ego. Everyone will say ‘I am’, that’s common.
What follows is different now. I am George, I am Costas, I am Alexis, I am Helen, I am Mary. The I-am is common. That’s our I-ness, our self. In a sense, an immortal god. I am. I am a human being now. But am I only a human being? That’s a different thing. For the time being I am sure that I am a human being. That can make comparison of my way of expressing a self with other forms of life all around me. With the trees. Billions and billions of phenomenon of life all around us. Flying birds, animals, everywhere here. They are living we know that they are phenomena of life. We can see them. We can approach them. We can catch them. We can touch them.
So. I start from what we call a reality, which we’ll find out later it is not the reality, but the shadow of a reality. Because our life as human beings is the shadow of our inner real self which is life in itself. But until then, we have to develop noetical wings to fly so high. Now we have only feet, and we must train these feet to walk. And as a little child learns how to walk, so people living human beings must be trained to walk. Don’t we walk? As life, no. Because many time you are stumbling, breaking your knees, bleeding.
Yes, human beings do not know to walk in life. That’s true. Stumbling. What
do you mean stumbling? The way you are living
10’00”
You don’t know the correct way of walking. That means going through what I call the course of things. The way. Christ called it ‘dervec’. “I am the way and truth and life”.
So, for the life of every human being, man or a woman, its a way, just to walk. Is it necessary to go that way? That personal way? That individual way? Definitely you have to. Because this is the law of life in the worlds of existence.
So we learn now, of a law. Everything is changing. Developing. Nothing remains the same. So now I start by living, seeing that I am changing, growing up. Let us call it like that. And in the course of time expressing and I-ness, and Ego. I am. I said that is common to all human beings. But then you have, being in the world of separateness, a separate personal life. A name. Bodies. All the bodies are the same. I said in a lesson studying the material body of a man, you know what are the bodies of all male persons. Studying the body of a woman, you know what is the body of a woman.
So there is even to the present day so-called personality resemblance, and difference. So we must find out the difference and what resembles. Is the same thing. And what do I find out? That I have the power of expressing myself. That I-ness. I have the power to observe things and know things. Know. The correct way or not the correct way, I know that this thing does exist. And if I concentrate more, I will know better. And I know what it is. So I have the power now, in my ego, in my I-ness, to concentrate, to express the will of knowing, and the means to know. Which is the MIND.
And what we find in the course of things? That in the way each one of us is living, you are facing problems. You have to go through. You have to get the experiences, and get the lessons. The lessons are not all the same for everybody. Nor do other circumstance. But what is common again? The power of studying, knowing and coming to conclusions. Different ways, different experiences, but one way of finding out the relative reality… because we say that’s not the reality. For us that’s the reality. We see things, we touch things, we live in a human body. The reality for us it the material body, and the reality for us is our present day personality.
Great ones say life, as we live it, as human beings, is a dream. Yes, it is a dream if we study it deeply, and in the length of the procedure. Whoever is studying it now, this moment, living this moment that is not a dream for me, it is a reality. Now I’m living, I’m working,
15’00”
I’m touching my body, I’m talking to you, now I’m feeling being hungry need to go and eat. The time we are studying things for us is a reality. When do you find ‘that’s a dream?’ By introspection. Introspection, we see that together with my ability of concentrating, knowing things, getting experiences in the one way or the other way, I have the ability to bring in the surface of my beingness as a human being, past experiences. Which proves that we are gods. We are living as gods. You are expressing perfect selfhood. But who really, caring about his everyday life started to think, ‘what is remembering?’ What is this power I have to recollect, to close my eyes and bring forward an even, persons, place, circumstances, which happened before 6 hours. Closing my eyes getting the skill of seeing things with my mind. So it’s not only seeing things with the eyes.
I have another side now. But nobody started just to investigate and try to understand what it is, though everybody is using it subconsciously. Everybody can bring forward something that impressed him or impressed her. Impressed him or her, well, certain relationships with other human beings, even things which happened a year ago, two. I still remember something that they have done to me, or I still remember a good thing they have done to me. If I asked you ‘what’s that remembering?’ And what’s time? What’s the distance in time in the past that you are able now to bring forward people, events, happenings, and remember them?
Another side of our life which needs to be studied, and if we start just getting deep and study what is a human life, walking yet the day, everyday life, we’ll find just the same things. We’ll find by flying with the thought, developing what we’ll call our consciousness. Not yet the self-consciousness. What is the same thing, whether you are walking or you are flying, the same things you will see. But now flying you can see them more clearly. From above.
See what? Who we are. What we are. What is life. Life I think it is a reality,
but studying it through the events, that means bringing them forward from the past to the present moment, it becomes a dream. So life becomes a dream when it belongs to what we call the past. But is there past, present and future? Or the eternal present? As human beings, we are under the illusion of time as past, present and future. When we raise our - not personality - our Ego, our I-ness, yes, we’ll give it another name now. Our I-ness is soul. We are a Soul also. To higher levels of receiving impressions. Interpreting impressions. And understanding things… now you can understand more easily. You are not in need of using a handful of matter which is the material brains, you have to use your own nature now.
20’00”
Can you find out that? That I-ness of mine? That Ego of mine? Great [ ] call it ‘god’. A god. We call it life. To be more precise in understanding things, is in various degrees of development or of expression.
Let us use both words. You have just to develop it and express yourself in a higher level. So, what is the daily life of a human being? Which is common to all human beings? Necessity and pleasure. We’ll classify it in these two classes. Necessity and pleasure. Necessity - yes you have the necessity of breathing. Of eating. Of drinking water. We’ll classify what you call necessity all those subconscious. It becomes part of our subconsciousness. What you call necessity. And the greatest necessity, which is again subconscious, not under the control of the personality apart from higher Intelligences, is the living in the material body.
Living in the material body, and developing the material body a time and place space personality. It is the necessity of our heart beat. It is the necessity for the circulation of the blood. It is the necessity every organ of the material body to be filled with blood, with vitality, feed everything else, so that the material body lives and grows.
Now the great ones are calling these things the circle of possibilities of a human being in life. You can study it, this circle of possibilities. Many time I start using in the lessons these terms. But now we explain them better… what is the circle of possibilities. It is our material life in time and place and the course of things which - the way - which we have to cover. To go through to complete the circle of our possibilities. Can one get out of the circle of possibilities? No. No one can get out of the circle of possibilities
because that’s a law in the total Wisdom of the Almighty Father. Of the Almighty Authority. But again, there is not blind destiny and luck. That’s an insult to God. We make our own life, ourselves, having the free will and the responsibility. The responsibility facing what is cause and effect, the law of relativity. Now these things have to be studied also. We’ll explain it.
What is the circle of possibilities? Of possibilities of a man, to live? Birth, growing up, developing a personality, through all the stages of life. Child, adult, youth, grown up, old age, and passing over. It is the circle of possibilities.
Nobody can avoid it. The way. Nobody can avoid the way. Nobody can go back. Nobody can bring forward yesterday. Today is today and tomorrow will be today, tomorrow.
25’00”
It is the course of things. But this is what’s in the law. Our own life, we are free to shape it. That’s why I said studying the life of human beings… billions and billions of human beings, billions and billions of ways of life… the man as a human being is free to live his own life. And to face the responsibilities. That’s life in the material world, in the world of existence, as we know it. I’ll give an example. We are going to a far off country with a ship. We just go on board the ship, and the ship starts going, no way back. Until we get to the end of the trip. But on the ship, we can do anything we like. Go to the swimming pool or go to the place to play gamble or play billiards or go and hear music or go to the dancing room and dance. Anybody on the ship can do anything he likes. There are many many ways of living on a ship. Only to get back is not possible, or to stop the ship going to that place.
But we are free. To do anything we want to do onboard the ship. This is life. We are born. We start growing and growing and growing. Our life as a human being has to go its own process, until the time we pass over. But whatever we want to do to live the way we want to live, it’s up to us. We are free. But also responsible. Free, to do anything. But what do we observe, living as human beings now, on the planet? That everything is under laws. Nobody can violate the laws without facing the consequences. Nobody can get a stone and throw it up and not expect it to come on his head and make his head bleeding. One should know the law of gravity.
And we find out by deep study, that nothing, nothing at all escapes from the control and the Almightiness of an absolute authority. Whether people call it God or call it in a different way doesn’t matter. He doesn’t care what we will call Him. Call it rather, because it’s not he or she. But what we’ll observe is stability in the laws and the principles governing everything on the planet. ‘Cause scientists now, even calling themselves atheists, they find out this total wisdom of God. They call it the law of relativity. You say this law of relativity? What’s the law of relativity? Why, everything is relative to something else. Who is keeping this law of relativity? Who is keeping it in harmony, which cannot be violated? And when something happens, that must come back to its place. What you call it ‘harmony’, who is doing it?
In our material body. Just observe that. The law of god, the law of life, is the Holy Archangels of the Elements, to work in a material body of a man or a woman, to keep it in good order, keep it growing, healthy and strong. That’s for everybody, for every human being, is this work done in his or her material body. Illness appears, because we said we face the responsibilities,
30’00”
we are free to live our own life, but by our life, playing dirty games to our nervous system, and living in a way hating, envying, fighting, making bad use of the great gift we call ‘thought’, we burn up that etheric vitality they want to keep in good health, our bodies, and all kinds of illnesses appear in our material bodies. Somebody will say ‘are we responsible for the illnesses coming to our material body?’ I say ‘absolutely yes!’ But he say, ‘good man, why he suffering with cancer? He is very very kind and good.” You never know who and what is every human being. Only she or he know inward what is happening to that personality. Now I’m telling you everybody is responsible for what comes to him or her as an illness.
Or, it may come by attuning yourself, by love, to somebody, to help him, after that somebody learns his lesson or her lesson. Not before. But if learning the lesson is something that still remains, you can shorten it. That is what Joshua Immanuel the Christ had persuaded us: The strong should hold the burdens of the weaker.
Let us call it a side of the law of karma. Of course it needs much, much
study. So seeing a fellow, being ill, or undergoing and operation, at least 80% is his own responsibility. And only 20% is just getting the burden of beloved ones. But that’s immaterial. Whether this is the case or not, the Holy Archangels are still working, in the bodies, doing their work. Creating. Even if the man is very, very ill, suffering on his thigh or on his hand, parallel with the illness he’s suffering, that wound will be closed down, and be cured.
We say phenomenon you can see everywhere, at any time seeing people around you, which means that we are under the Holy Providence, yet… we have to face our responsibilities. As punishment? No. As a lesson. There is not punishing God. The Absolute Infinite Authority, God the Father, is most merciful. Only for the Jews God is a God of vengeance and punishing. Not for us. Not for Christians. For Christians, God the Father… if you don’t like the word ‘God’ call him ‘The highest Authority and Intelligence’ is Love and Mercy. So, you have to study all these things. How? Using what? Using the Mind.
So we come now to know that we have the possibility of using something - call it abstract if you like because you cannot touch it for the time being - which we call ‘mind’. But we are sure it exists, because we are using it. You are expressing it as emotion, as desire, as thoughts, so we have to find out now that our whole life as a personality on the material world is the subconscious use of the mind in its various ways of expressing itself. Desire, Emotion, Thought.
These are realities. This, we see them. We are feeling, we have desires… torturing desires most of the time… we have emotions, just shaking us up, and we have the way of thinking, knowing what these emotions are doing to us and leading us to… and we have also the power of using now this mind as right thinking.
35’00”
Getting, now, decisions. Now, we will have to see. Is a decision taken after sober thinking - reasonable thinking - the outcome of the mind? No I want thought here. We see sometimes after great suffering, after having been tortured so much by unbridled desires and emotions and getting tired and fed up from all these conditions, we come to reason now. We can study the whole case and the whole process of the whole thing. And now, I
can think, we say, better. In a more reasonable way. Why we have not done it before? And from where we got now this power of reasoning? All these things need study, observation, and thinking. Then, I get my decision now, because I come to certain definite conclusions. Now I repeat: Is the decision I take the outcome of thought? No. We are deciding, using the thought.
That was the time I would take a decision. Which means, now we come to discover myself on higher levels. As willpower. I can stick on decisions. I can stick on decisions but maybe in many times, in many cases, many people come to decisions but when the same circumstances happen, they are forgetting it. Upset, getting angry, come to the conclusion that anger, and just fighting cannot serve anybody in a good way. We get a decision. We got the lessons. Yet circumstances when they are… are forgetting themselves. To do the same thing.
Which means, that you have a double self. The one strong, getting the decisions, reasoning, and our personality self which is our egoism, who is not accepting things in this way. Again I reach to the conclusion though I shouldn’t have failed, yes and forgot myself, myself considering now and egoism and reasonable. Next time, I will be more careful.
This fault may be repeated, many many times, but once you get the decision YOU as a soul, as a Being now, reasoning, will succeed in future, once you’ve got your decision. And studying this, you’ll find that ourself is not the egoism, which is controlling us for some time, now we free ourselves from this time and place kind of self I call egoism, depriving myself, in it, of its influence.
Now I had a question the other day, “Sir, you separate the egoism from the ego, our egoist personal egoism from our Soul ego. Make it more clear.”
Said, ‘yes.’ Get a thick, swollen glove. You are skillful at doing many many things, even playing the piano. I play the violin. With your hands. With your self, your ego, put on your hands thick gloves, now take and get the violin, get the bow with these gloves, and just play now. How is it possible? How is it possible? Yet, while you’ll be playing awkwardly, it’s you who is playing. The hand is in the glove.
40’00”
What you have to do is remove the glove from you.” So he says, “My egoism, is my ego?” Says, ‘no. Your egoism is the glove on your hand. On your ego. So by taking it off, you are not losing anything. You regain your skill.
Thinking. So this glove we call egoism… you are not thinking properly. Freeing yourself from this egoism of yours, which is the sum total of the Elementals you have created, storing them up in your so-called subconsciousness, freeing yourself from that… it’s you.
So taking away the glove and throwing it away, you are not losing anything, besides sooner or later, that glove will become real dirty… very dirty, you’ll take it off, or it will be destroyed. But your hand is not. So when you are moving your hands like that and you see the glove all around it, it’s not your hand, the glove.
Is that you, glove? So, you have just to take it off. When shall we take it off? Here is the problem. When we can take off that glove from our personality you call the egoism? By the death of our material body? Unfortunately, no, because we carry it with us. It needs many, many incarnations to make that glove more refined, until you take it completely away.
Then I had the question from that fellow, we were talking, “Is this glove, you call it, on my hand, you call it human egoism, our shell-hell?” Exactly.
It is our shell-hell, we call it ‘shell’ now. Which we just cover ourselves.
How can we get rid of it? In two ways. The first, sooner or later, we’ll get rid of it after we have many lashes from the whip of destiny. We said we are responsible. Free, but responsible.
And happily, having deeper lessons, we have to use the mind reasoning, reaching conclusions and decisions. But is it necessary to undergo so much trouble, so much hardship, so much bad experiences, reaching that conclusion, of course, no. That’s up to you to decide. Anybody is free to make the right use of the mind! Reasoning, thinking. By analyzing things and coming to conclusions, then you realize what a precious great gift of God is thought.
So of course, one of the promises members of our circles are giving, to themselves, not to anybody else, one of these promises is to make good use of the Divine Gifts of speech and thought. That means using the mind in expressing the mind. So. Again working, we can us the mind NOW. In all the events of our life. Before just developing and growing wings, noetical wings to fly, you have just to cover the whole distance on our feet, seeing that our feet are becoming strong and healthy to carry us. So we are still on solid ground. On this solid ground, the reality - I believe it is the reality - because it is the reality for me
45’00”
today, this moment, is that I have a body. In it, I express myself as a present day personality, a male or a female person. And, I am living. I have now, using the mind to study what are necessities in life, what is pleasure in life?
And what we find out? That the necessities are all the necessities in life, and God gave everything in abundance to satisfy the necessity.
What you call pleasure - you find out that we believe a desire, the accomplishment or the fulfillment of a desire is giving us a please, we find out to the contrary. It is giving us troubles, pain, despair sometimes. So we find out that we have done very very wrong conclusions in classifying things to what we call pleasure. Then you have just to reclassify it. How? Study each desire in itself. “What do I want…” “What is this feeling to me, I call it desire… having that or that or that thing myself.” That means studying, from the very beginning, the nature of desire. If that desire will be fulfilled it will give me great pleasure, but until it is fulfilled, I have so much trouble and pain. And even, when this is accomplished, the desire, I found out that it is not giving me pleasure…
[end of tape]