1989.10.05 (part 3) also labeled 1989.10.11
Daskalos-October 5. 1989
Our Father Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory, forever.
Oh God of Life and Love, enlighten our minds to understand the Truth. Brighten our hearts to show your Love to you and to our fellows. Amen.
Again, we speak about Elementals. We said that everything is MIND. The universes. Everything in the universes. Material, psychical, noetical, beyond that, all are MIND. MIND in different frequency of vibrations. Frequency of vibrations, yes, but what are vibrations? Motion, and motions, we said in a lesson, and motion is the characteristic of the Absolute Beingness. We said in a lesson the nature of the Absolute Beingness is motion, but without anything moving. The time, the Absolute Beingness decides, in a certain part of himself, space… call it space, to express itself, the immediately MIND appeared. There was no time that MIND was not. Was not in the Divine Meditation of the Absolute Beingness, and did not exist in certain parts of space.
MIND also is and exists. IS in the Absolute Beingness, as its nature Will to express itself. So, the time the Absolute Beingness wanted to express itself, the Absolute Beingness presented itself as the Christos Logos. As the Logos, and at the same time, as the Holy Spirit. Now, we see the Absolute Beingness in the Symbol of Life. There. Its what we call the Dark Color. Yet that color is the Super Light. It is your human eyes that color black. There is no such thing as darkness in the Absolute Beingness or the worlds. What you call light are only certain rate of vibrations of the ether. And what is darkness to our material eyes maybe it’s the super-light. So
05’00”
you see there, the black color? That’s super light to the psychical and noetical eyes. Yet, you see that white up? With two ends? Those two ends is the Logos and the Holy Spirit. The nature of the Absolute Beingness, now in expression. In itself. Absolute Beingness is not male or
female, to say he or she, it itself.
So, we see the expression of the Infinite Absolute Beingness to express itself, he projects, he creates MIND. Is MIND living? Is it just like that supersubstance, substance, supermatter and matter, without having life of itself. MIND is living, living, but MIND is not Life. Living, expressing life. Expressing the Absolute Beingness, who is life. Is the MIND having in it Love? Now what’s Love from this point of view? It IS love, the MIND IS love.
It does not express love, it IS love. We as human beings with our human intelligence, we can understand the Absolute Beingness only in 3 ways: as Total Wisdom, Total Love, and Total Force, Might, and Energy. Energy is something in the material world. So, since everything is built up by MIND, so MIND should have in it that Total Wisdom and Total Love in the Absolute mind. Otherwise, everything created by Absolute Beingness as physical laws and Holy Spirit would not be perfect. So everything in all the universes in all the worlds express the absolute and Total Wisdom. Shall we call that MIND as a supersubstance is vibrating the Total Wisdom. Otherwise the Absolute Beingness would not be perfect, if its expressions were not wisdom, especially Total Wisdom. No.
What is the relation of MIND to the Absolute Beingness as Logos? And to the Absolute Beingness as Holy Spirit? Here many systems have made the great mistake to consider MIND as the Holy Spirit. It isn’t. MIND is the means, and the Logos and the Holy Spirit are the Life - the Life -
10’00”
expressed through MIND, living supersubstance. So it’s clear. MIND is not life, but its living. Does MIND have such… have its own… Total Wisdom? But can we separate now MIND in the universes from the Logos or the Holy Spirit? Cannot do that, therefore, enough to say that MIND is living, expressing life, yet MIND is not life. Life IN MIND is the Logos and the Holy Spirit, only.
Now, if we classify all orders of Archangels, in what we say the Holy Spirit, no need just to classify them in another way. Because all the Archangelic orders are expressing themselves through MIND, creatively. We said yesterday that they’re the workers… the Archangels. The [ ] is all the
Archangels. In building the universes. So, we said, the Archangels of the Elements. Are the Elements only the four elements we have described? Earth, Fire, Water, and Ether or Air? Are only those four the elements? There. Of course they’re not. But… not to be understood and be used by the Human Intelligence. Maybe other Elements, from which these four Elements are produced, are in the nature of the Holy Archangels are presented. So don’t think that the Michaels, billions and billions and billions of Michaels… the Michaels, the Lords of Fire, and Light, are not Lords of Higher States of those Elements. But you cannot understand, is it Higher States of this Element, of Fire? of Ether? of what?
I have put this question to certain scientists: what’s water? You have water in the seas, the oceans, the rivers, the clouds, it’s all water. A thought form. I can say some letters, and figures: H, so and so. I said, no, that’s really not. These are terms you are using but cannot give the idea to any Human Intelligence and brain. They cannot say what is THE nature of water. As an element. The same thing with ether. The soil. The soil is the earth down here, a handful of soil. But soil is also our brains. Our muscles. Everything existing as solid. So, what you call solids and material things are from the element we call earth. As combinations. Are there not combinations of the element called water? Yes, many. Too many.
15’00”
But I said, the human beings do not have time the way they are living to study more the element of water. The element of fire. What about fire? We see it as fire… heat and light, and combustion. A flame. What do they, any of them, know more? All those scientists, claiming to know everything. Yet, they know nothing. So, you put them the question. I put it to a certain scientist who visited. What’s fire? Fire. What is fire? Fire for you means combustion, or a dissolving of something material, through, what you say, fire. Is fire and element? It is just that element you call material things which can be dissolved by combustion. You say fire is an element… what is it as an element?
If you ask them, what’s ether? Then they know nothing, and they deny even the existence of ether. I put the other day to a scientist who visited me. He was a principle of a university. He is teaching physics and mathematics. Said sir, I want you just to tell me, what are the means by which those you have sent to kronos. [ ] satellites. Sending photos, color
photos, to the screens down here on earth. Said, by the way, how many thousands of miles are from the earth to that planet? Of course, he thought he knew. He gave me a number… what is it? That’s’ immaterial. I said, here, something I must get around. There must be some means by which all vibrations send to the earth have been turned into light and a picture, [ ] on that satellite of man. There must be something in between to convey those vibrations. He said, do you… what do you want me to say? If there is what we call ‘ether’ which science has denied its existence, there must be something, something we don’t dare call ‘ether’, because we have denied, in science, the existence of ether. Give me an [ ] I said. What’s that mean in-between the two planets? Well, I don’t know he said. I said “MIND”. Mind? Yes, MIND. That’s a [ ] only, your brains in your head a handful of matter - might be something else. “So you call the ether MIND?” I said definitely ether is MIND. But MIND is also the matter you know and you handle. Yes, that’s very very interesting, what you are teaching and what you are saying. But how can we prove it? I told him we can.
20’00”
I have a body. Yes, of course everybody has a material body. Do we have an etheric double? He says, “can you prove it?”. Said, ‘Of course I can prove it.’ I try on my material body I am sure, because I can touch it with my own material hands. Right, and you have a body I can touch with my material hands. I’m sure you have a body and I’m sure I have a body. And I say have this, etheric double and a psychical body and a mind body. Yes, I say, say, no… no touch is [ ] because theories for me do not have a principle proof, or are not existing or are imagination and fantasy. So what are we trying now? He says “to make me believe. But you want me to believe,” he says. It’s just to imagine something which [ ] they ask you. No. When I’m telling you about the etheric double, I mean I have tangible proof about that. Tangible proof? Yes. You are sure of the existence of your hands because you can use them… you can touch with them. Yet you cannot explain to me what does it mean to ‘feel’ that I touch? You can. Touch. You feel it! If I [ ] you I said, something, and I said touch me now… you touch me, can you feel it? No. Your hands aren’t touching me, I can hold your arm. How you don’t feel it?
Said, look here. [ ] you are aiming at the etheric double within the material body, characteristic of which I say it is the esthetic ether. He understood sometime because he knew Greek. He studied. He said ‘I’ll give you a
lesson’. It’s not there anymore, it’s in other parts of the body. Said yes, quite. Certain medicines I said, have just this power removing this esthetic ether, you call it the feeling-sense giving ether. And you don’t think that you know [ ] of your material hand, why don’t you see a little further and see that the material hand is nothing without the etheric double in it?
He said yes, look at it, I had a big needle. Look here, if you inject in me something to remove the material, it’s matter again, the etheric double. The feeling giving material. [ ] “How did you feel anything?” Come here. Take it off. It would be bleeding. [ ] I said. If I want will continue bleeding, if I don’t want, it will not. Come and take it out. He took it out. He said only two [ ]. I stop it. How is that? I said “you wanted tangible proof of the existence of etheric double!”. If I want, I can create
25’00”
an etheric hand and slap you, and you’ll feel it, because I have done it in the past. Is that not tangible proof? As if that were enough for him, he said, Look here, sit there, that seat here. Touch me. Touch me from there. I didn’t touch him, I pinch… [laughter]. And again he said, because most of them are stupid, “Did you hypnotize me, to feel what you think?” I said, “my goodness. You believe it in hypnosis, even so, “what’s hypnosis?” I said, just make you feel that and that? Is that a difference from far away? Yes, yes. I said, “you want to visit me tomorrow?” Said, no, no. I don’t want to visit you anymore I have seen enough. You have seen enough? [ ] you have seen now, I said. I want to stay with what I know. “With what is written on your books, printing pages, with printing ink, only that?”
I said that your books are not offering wisdom. Then he said, here is a book around you. Nature. Learn the language of nature to read it. The nature has a language of its own, which I call understanding and knowing, from what I said concentration and observation, and sincerity with yourself. To know what’s true outside of what you’ve learnt to believe at the present moment that it is true. He said, look here, you are puzzling me. He went away and he didn’t come back. What he said to some friends who came afterward, “yes, he’s practicing magic.” Yes, rightly Markides is calling him ‘the Magus of Strovolos’. Now what you say to that? You present him the truth, you give him the key to advance and understand, and he’s just imprison himself in stupid ideas. Shall I insist more? No, he’s not ready.
Never mind that he has two or three degrees hanging on the walls of his study room. So. Do we have an etheric double? Of course we have it. But, by saying that we have an etheric double, should you be satisfied with what I say? No. Daskale, and masters and shamans and gurus, must lead you somewhere, but you must go there with your own feet. And having in your head your mind. Otherwise, you are not able to see the truth. So we say that we have an etheric double. Unless you know how to use it, at first by knowing it as the esthetic ether, imprinting ether, the kinetic ether, and later as creative ether, remember, you must never be satisfied.
How? By studying it as Genesis
30’00”
energy. The king? ether, is just doing us that there is something we call the etheric double in which we can move. We can change place. The esthetic ether is just this quality of the etheric double which at first make me feel the existence of my material body. And later, by practice, feel each organ now in the material body, know what it is. You are feeling you are living in a material body just as a present day personality. Many many people are breathing… do they know they have in their chest lungs and they are breathing, if they are illiterate? No. Do they feel that they’re lungs? Oh they feel the air… in and out… can they feel anything as regards the condition - health I mean - of their lungs? No. Can they concentrate in the lungs… now I need again the esthetic ether, and feel, and I need now the imprinting ether, to see, to see that I surely need to use material light… have to develop another kind of sight. which is more understanding accompanied by seeing, and know what is going on in their lungs by breathing.
You know that it is a vast field of study… the material body. To use the etheric double, as I said it’s a kinetic ether, imprinting ether. It’s a whole universe. It’s a microcosmos. So many things are taking place this moment and every moment in your material body. The life of the blood cells and many many things in liquids, solids, in the material body as molecules.
Now you say you are able to think. And you think that thought is created by the material mind. Just a handful of earth… you call the brains, two lobes, inside the skull. Now I tell you that thought is not that. Because they remove part of the material brains and still, you are you. They make now -
not experiments - but out of necessity, operating, their material brains. Even so, what a marvelous work is done in those two lobes inside your skull, to be used not only by the present day personality but by the Holy Spirit and the Archangels, for the economic of the material body. Do you think that your material body is yours? Or theirs. I mean the Holy Archangels of the elements… supervising, working, creatively in the material body. So, how we will come to know? The truth
35’00”
[ ] matter, and our material body? Come, think now, how can you do that? We’ll never be able to do that unless we reach to the point of knowing who we are, not as present day personalities, but each of us as an Ego. And Ego at the beginning, embracing both the present day personality and the Soul superconsciousness we call ‘self-consciousness’ of the Soul. Of course it means studying.
What will be the gain out of it? Is there any gain in it? Just over to know who we are? Because we are no a weak, sinful, stupidly behaving present day personality, with many faults and suffering all the time by our own behavior, but something else. Further I get now, because you’re caught up, [ ] life itself. Gods. That’s what we are. Life. When I put the question, ‘what is life?’
Your material body is living, and you are not conscious of the life of the material body, because the life of the material body is under the supervision of the Holy Spirit and the Archangels. You live in ready made material body. You don’t know what’s metabolism, anabolism, catabolism, you don’t know anything about any situation in that what we call conditions, you don’t know of what I call ‘the energetic double’, through the nervous system, sympathetic, or parasympathetic… I had the question the other day by a fellow who calls himself a psychiatrist, ‘yes you are using those words sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems’, he said, ‘do you know using the terms without defining what it is, or if they are trying to do it, they are not understanding really what’s going on in the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system?” This means that certainly we have touched part of the truth - they spoke about it - and the others have been chewing these words without any taste of them in their mouth. Here, doctors of medicine saying and saying… stop, stop.
“What do you mean by them?” They are not able to [ ] they consult their books, which are found on the shelves of their houses. I have a doctor who said, no, I don’t know anything about it [ ] and of course I shall go and see it [ ] before your books and your shelf, just to know about an experiment on that poor fellow, with light conscious that you are doing your duty. Of course, I don’t want to say that I’m against the medical profession. They do what they can. They have successes, sometimes they don’t
40’00”
- not to say failures - they do what they can. But they would do more by knowing more, and by knowing more, I mean, not to see the material body as something we have unknown to them, and use that or that medicine, because I tell you now. Two people who have the same illness cannot be treated by the same medicine. Because the same medicine can work with karma but [ ] when they get into that fellow they had put in certain things [ ]. They have to study more things about that man, his health, his condition, before applying these [ ].
So, we say now, yes, [ ] should know more the conditions of that man before giving that or that, by knowing his etheric double, because there is the seat of everything, of health, of illness. See the reason of that illness, [ ] you’ll learn it. To not only studying books, certain cases, [ ] there is some, and then apply them to anyone just the same. This is why the importance of successes not only of the doctors of medicine but also those calling themselves psychiatric and psychologist. Now I tell you about a psychiatrist from London, is very very good, a woman, who started from the beginning to know what’s healthy and how much to fill her house with energy, with vitality, and cure people.
A different fellow. A neuroscientist. He telephoned me the other day and said, ‘Daskale, now I see better the science with this method we are having today, I never thought that my hearts could be cured by concentrating and learning the way how to balance the vitality in the [ ] of the patients. Now she says she’s coming to me after two months to learn more about absent healing and sending what she says also called energy, a light to cure people. She was hear only for a week. How much could I give her?
And that’s a psychiatrist, this woman… many many psychiatrists from
Switzerland, from Germany, France, and America come here. And really, I’m very sorry to say, that the most essential things to know, they don’t know. When I speak to them about the subconsciousness, they are looking at me just, ‘what’s that you call subconsciousness?’. I said ‘but you are using this word!’ ‘Yes, we are using that word, it’s a certain kind of behavior…’ No, it’s not a certain kind of behavior, what we call subconsciousness… because I said it’s a DYNAMITE. It can blow up everything if you don’t know how to use it. And not knowing how to keep fusing.
So, what’s now the subconsciousness? Why is the subconsciousness
45’00”
actively indefectable? Again, actively but less in the psychical body, and still less in the mental body. But mainly on the etheric double of the material body as long as we live in a material body. For those passing over, leaving back the material body and the etheric double dissolved, greater importance is in psychic etheric double. Why not to ask why they need a material body? Because our adaptation and character is based on the material plane. So the sub-conscious is less active in the etheric double of the psychical body.
[end of recording side]
Now, I repeat, the seat of our sub-consciousness is in the etheric double of our material body. It is less active in the etheric double of our psychic body. And still less active in the psychical we call the ‘mind body’. Why is it more active, the subconsciousness, in the etheric double of the material body? Because our life, our interests and attention, now is the material body. When one person passes over, and of course the material body is buried, and the etheric double is dissolved, the subconsciousness in the psychical body is more active, there. Because after all, this is what gives us the sense of living in the psychical world. When I say ‘more active’, I mean those qualities of the etheric double we call esthetic ether. Feeling giving ether.
So, now we come again to the psychical body and to the material body. Two together. We leave the mental body out for the time being. Why? Because our life in the material body is our emotions, our desires, and we
use less the mind. What we do? We make bad use of the mind, enslaving thought in the emotions and desires, projecting what we call
50’00”
the elementals of desire thought forms. We spoke about them yesterday.
Now, is our subconsciousness the sum total of our elementals? Yes and no. Why? Yes of course the sum total of our elementals are making our subconsciousness. But all those elementals together, they create an atmosphere the quality of the sum total of the elementals. That totality, and now collective influence, is our subconsciousness. But this is one cellar of our storehouse. One cellar. There are many more. So in what we call the subconsciousness the kinetic, the esthetic ether, and our imprinting ether as items first ones. Its also the creative ether. It is also that creative ether in that subconsciousness, but it is in a clean, more clean cellar. It’s the MIND etheric vitality, by which the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels are building the material body. Can we call that part our subconsciousness? Yes, you advance and cooperate with that. Have the authority to get from that clean cellar, the MIND. Yes. But too common people think they can do that. I say no. So, they are all the time in that cellar what we call subconsciousness which is their elementals.
A psychologist has learn, especially, what is in that cellar of the etheric items, or elementals. Yes, he studies them, especially when he is making a psychoanalysis. But also he will get the energy, the vitality, to flood the patient with that energy, to help him. From his elementals, the elementals who love people, his elementals or the elementals of the patient? No. He must get the vitality from a purer source. That’s from that side you call creative ether, to be able to use it. We said that creative ether, energy, vitality, is used by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels in building the material body and keeping it in good health.
So, from this clean cellar, we call it our subconsciousness again, there is a constant flow to the other cellar, which is sum total of our elementals. Vitalizing them, giving them life. Because even those elementals in us must have substance to prolong
55’00”
their life - not their life - to prolong their energy. Because we said nobody once an elemental is created can kill it, but disenergize it and send it to the Cosmic Consciousness. Why? I came there, because our subconsciousness and everything is in the Cosmic Consciousness. They’re not going to caste it somewhere else. We are in that Cosmic Consciousness. Yes.
Do we draw more of that vitality or etheric double from the clean source? That supersubstance needed by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels to build a material body and of course the etheric double? Yes, and when we do it, what we do?
We have the law. You are authorized to use 100 monads from this source… I call it the source because there is no end to it… and you misuse, make bad use of this etheric in filling up your elementals and revitalizing other elementals, you deprive the material body of the supersubstance needed, the creative ether, the Archangels to use it and the Holy Spirit for the health of the body. This is the cause of any kind of illness in the material body. Yes, what about the germs? The germs are our friends in the body as long as our body is not weak enough to attack it. Certain people who are full of energy are immune to any illness. What does it mean ‘immune to any illness’?
So, we have the subconsciousness as a storehouse. Now I’m speaking about 2 cellars. There are more, much more, which I am not allowed to talk, because if you venture in that, when you are not ready to use the substance there, you might be burned even as a material body. Yes we must know the nature of electricity and how to have wire to have life, but we must beware, electricity is dangerous. It can make an electrical shock and kill you. So there are more cellars which a common man should not approach, and they are within the etheric double. So one should be careful, especially when practicing what I call a kind of hatha and hindu yoga, which is making them not subconsciously, stupidly approach the source. So one should be very careful.
What one master now, gains by approaching this [ ] to use that energy to make the creative work of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels? What explains that? To use it for materializations and dematerializations. So, you have that stuff of the etheric double you call energy. Anyone can gain that by a correct way of breathing. I told it many times that way of breathing.
That yes sir, I am full of that energy and I feel it within me and I know the way how to flood a patient with that energy.
60’00”
But I don’t see it in France. I expect, yes, of course, you flood them with energy. You don’t know how to make them assimilate it, and the energy returns back to you. You are doing it subconsciously and not consciously. And that should be superconsciously, not only consciously. That’s why you don’t have results. So you all who will approach dangerous cellars should know the nature of that, and be the master of that supersubstance, again, MIND, I call ‘Active Energy in Creativeness in material pain and in the etheric double’. I tell you, the fire you know is not so dangerous as this kind of fire.
In the history I have read the other day, in a book a fellow brought to me… he was reading it… because I didn’t have time to read it, a magician was found burnt one day on his bed, just like charcoal. How is that without being worthy of approaching this creative energy… He tried to use it and was burned. So can what would I call them white magicians or theogists, work with this energy? Yes, of course they can be, if they are pure to project. Not a matter of knowing many things or learning this and that. Have to clean first their heart and their present day personality, so approaching it not to harm, not to burn them. They become immune to fire.
So, to become a psychotherapist is good. In the course of time you gain more and more and more skill. In doing this or that? No. In just attuning himself to the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit will use him as an angel, or use her as an angel to make this phenomena of healing. But Christ said something to the one he gave the talents. Given one talent, you have hidden in the earth. And you gave it back to him and say ‘but to know how to work with it’. To the two talents he said, ‘you made them four’ Come here he ordered him, you can leave them, but your just a…. he said something else, “Well done, servant. You have been faithful to few, and I make you master of more.”
So if a psychologist psychotherapist is working advancing as according to Margarita, starts the work and ends the work with a prayer, then he is attuning himself to the infinite truth, he attunes himself at the same time, with the truth. With the Lord, not of force and power, but of mercy and
love. He will feel that more energy, more fire will pass through my body not injuring it, but even curing it.
Some psychotherapists who have learned a way of just using a little their etheric double and their energy, I heard some of them,
65’00”
say ‘yes sir, we start with a prayer, a long prayer, saying’, and he asked me, ‘prayers you make, prayers, are not words, it’s concentration of the Spirit yourself, with love to the Infinite Beingness’. It’s not words. We make prayers in spirit. He didn’t understand me.
He knew how to recite certain prayers and learn some more prayers, and more prayers, he thought maybe these prayers make him more conscious. I can’t say he was wrong. But I say that was not right way of praying.
So, and yes, I cure people. Three or four every day. And really sir I’m feeling terribly exhausted. I said ‘come here, I teach you the way to flood yourself with energy and not feel exhausted. And besides what kind of illnesses you can cure as you claim you cure them, because we never say we cure anybody, we say we’re the agents of the Holy Spirit and of God. Not we. Said yes, alright. Said what should remove some arthritic or rheumatic pain, headaches, even he said he had successes on the eczemas. Is that what you can do? Yes, I told him, it happened to be in my house the weekend. There was an Englishman, English boy. That moment a fellow came with shorter leg, 2 1/2 inches. Said “can you do something to this fellow?” Atrophied foot, shorter 2 1/2 inches, who gets by just like that.
Said “can you do now? Can you do something to the fellow?” What can I do, it’s karma… Oh you found to use this word as an excuse. I said, karma? Can you change it? He was looking at me said, sit here. This fellow had polio when he was a child. It was a blessing of God. After a few minutes, the leg became normal, no more atrophied, just as the other one, he got up, stood on his toes, walking.
He opened his mouth, and I said your mouth because there were flies flying in. He said I want to do that also. You must train yourself to do that. Have you seen such phenomena Margarita? (Margarita says yes, many times)
And I hope very soon you will do it, all of you here, those who study psycho psychotherapy in our circle.
So. You know that a day, there are more than 80 people cured, going away, and maybe in the morning there will be a lobby just as full, and at the end of the day, I am stronger, and with more energy.
There are days I’m giving 3 lessons and seeing patients and patients, many patients, a day. To the point that Margarita is [ ] and frightened. Don’t be offended. These things will not kill me. And at the end I’m more healthy. And that’s not all, I’m shortening the karma of others sometimes. What I want to say? When you start
70’00”
your work as a psychotherapist, don’t see how much work you have to do. Because you are not doing it. It’s it. The Holy Spirit. The Holy Archangels. And Christ. So, you’ll never feel weak. You learn the way how to breathe and charge yourself with this kind of energy. I told you last night that if we are given 100 monads, you become a psychotherapist and you [ ] ten thousand monads will be given to me. Because after all, what’s the Holy Spirit and the Logos doing every day in curing thousands of people who maybe do not deserve it. Do not deserve it by being liars, criminals, thieves, bandits, killers, and yet, if there is a wound on them, the Holy Spirit tends to cure it.
You are not doing something against the Divine Will of life and health. But now must understand what does it mean… Life and Health… are these things synonyms? It should be synonymous, but by making bad use of the etheric double and of the energy and vitality, we make great difference between Life and Health. And that twinning good health to life is the will of God… it the Divine Will.
A psychotherapist is never against the Will of God. You must have that always in your mind.
And karma? No. You do this and let karma work us alone by the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit. And when you see karma that you cannot interfere much, don’t think that you are not successful. It is because destiny wants that fellow to have more lesson for that. So why don’t you interfere
with that also? Help the people by advising, speaking to him. Many will accept it. To change their character. Tell them. Unless you change, you will not have a healthier body. Teach them.
Some of them are telling me sir but we came here so that you’ve got us if we can do it and we came to hear these sermons, we could go to the church. Yes, of course he says, who am I speaking now, just like a priest. Said no, unless you change, unless you realize the truth as the cause of this mishap of yours, you will not be cured. So to help them is not only flooding them with etheric through your hand or by thought or by other means, but getting the personality who knelt out of the bargain, of her own elementals. Call it ’since see brach’, make it stand up on its feet and then work.
What was Christ doing when they presented to him a patient? “Your sins are forgiven.” And then he was calling “Your faith has cured you.” So you must see what is deepest position of that man. Help him psychically to help him physically. Because unless you help him psychically,
75’00”
you cannot help him physically. And it will be given to you by the total Wisdom just with a plan to know everything even regarding the karma of that fellow. So you will be ready to interfere with him however you have to interfere.
Now I say something else. Are there are miracles? No. There are no miracles. There are phenomena in time and space as regards health and life. Whatever you say you consider it then a miracle. Just working properly, the use of the creative ether, in restoring health on an ill person, why call it a miracle? Only one miracle I have knowledge. Life. Life is a miracle. Life in the living forms around us. And when you attune yourself to life, you make a synonym health and life. But not until them. But one miracle exists, life in the material world and the mercy of the almighty to accept beings in itself, to get knowledge of MIND and many many kinds of vibrations. Even the material earth. This what I call the mercy of the Lord.
And something else. Which is the difference between mercy and love? Can you say the difference between mercy and love? Of course there is not any difference between mercy and love. Now again, what’s love? Describe
it to yourself and we will continue today.
When you are sparing your time for the others, and some say, ‘oh, my energy’, - whose energy? - it’s through my body - whose body? - nothing is yours as a present day personality. Yes I sacrifice… sacrifice? They are using these things.
What did Christ say? I don’t need sacrifice, I need energy, mercy. It’s in the Bible. ‘Elion, zetho, kathes e zeer’. Don’t acknowledge such a word as sacrifice, but mercy is the Absolute Beingness sacrificing itself in allowing us to live as present day personality or it is its mercy. Love - its nothing like sacrifice.
So all the people, slaves of egoism can speak about sacrifice. There is no salvation in sacrifice. What you are doing to others, you are doing to him, to Christ. Or to you, because he is you, since he is the light who lightens everyone coming to the world. I had a fellow before, some weeks, they brought him to me, in a wheelchair, completely paralyzed. They took him to Sia Baba.
80’00”
And as they believe Sai Baba saw his karma, the karma of this fellow and sent him away, and the father came here disappointed. Many people are going to Sai Baba and they come away disappointed. It’s a great mistake of those fellows. Sai Baba is a very very good guru, and has his own way of serving in the Hindu ways and traditions. We Christians have different principles and traditions. Why did he send us to you because he told them, because he told them ‘go to the Cypriot master’. Of course this person, it was not possible for him to be cured completely at that moment, he will come again, though, I have succeeded to make his toes move, his hands move, and move a little bit his feet. Would not allow it to do more.
I thought it was best to tell him of his previous incarnation, so to make him ready for repentance. Some people sitting here were present to this case. When I told him you know you are there…because in the time of Hitler, you were one of his Generals. You are breaking bones, spines, kicking, even killing, but you are not absolutely responsible for that, because you were under the influence of the circumstances of those fellows, who are not anymore.
Yet I said, when you found that these are kinds, you revolted, and even you insulted the Furher. They gave you a piece taught to commit suicide, you didn’t do it, and they killed you. This brought you [ ] here, but with the possibility of being cured, because even then you started getting lessons on pity, and what’s a crime. What did he tell you? God would tell me. I knew everything. I knew also my name, at that time, because every night I see these events. I live them.
Said ‘your name was Hansen’. Said, ‘yes, I knew it.’ [note… a Georg Alexander Hansen was a General executed after the failed plot against Hitler] ‘I’m afraid I can not name anything more.’ Do you go to Verkamping?’ Maybe come again during the coming week. Who was that… (woman’s voice: I was present, he was 14 years old, yes, 14 years old). I hope that, coming again, he will be cured, maybe, completely. What did he tell me? Yes you are right sir. When I was beating and kicking and breaking what, I didn’t know that it was my bones that I was breaking also.
What I want to say. We are one in the Christ’s body. Whatever you do, in reality it will return to you because he was kicking his own body. So we are responsible for what we do. Being though in the world of separateness, we are not completely in the world of separateness. We are in God. But we said before, God is most merciful… of course! God is most merciful. What about the law? If God is merciful, the law is a strict teacher. He’s got us, because how harmony would restored? It isn’t possible. And I insist that there is no Devil punishing
85’00”
God. He put the laws in the universes, material, psychical, and mental as its total wisdom. And I gave an example which I repeat now. You have the law of gravity, which law keeps everything in order on the planet. Houses, trees, everything. The law of gravity. Well, we see somebody getting a stone, throwing it up, definitely it will come down. Maybe it slices his head and his head is bleeding. Says ‘ohhh, the Lord has punished me!’. The Lord didn’t punish him, but he would not expect that the Lord would not have the stone on his head. Even for a moment, stop the law of gravity. What would all happen on the planet?
So, the law was a great teacher for him. How the stone comes down. On
my head. And I must not throw stones up and stay under the stones I have. All the universes, the material, the psychical, and the mental worlds are governed by laws. And if people are just going against the laws? it’s not a punishment from God.
Now, a psychologist and a psychotherapist would see that all those conditions, especially the psychiatrists, is the violation of a psychical law. Instead of loitering about like fools, without an aim, they must seek which psychical law has been violated by that fellow. Not, by what they say ‘let steam out’, because that’s most dangerous. Repeating and repeating something. The autosuggestion is a great power or weapon in the hands of the subconsciousness, making matters worse.
But, study, concentrate, and observe the condition, and then teach him the law he has violated. Then, I wouldn’t say you have hopes of curing him, surely he will become alright. Do you know how many patients of the mental hospital, in Cyprus, are now good citizens, married people, and the good in the society living yet those fellows who were there in the mental hospital for six and more months? And those, the directors of the mental hospital gave up every hope that they will recover? They are now good citizens, good parents, in the society. Some of them are coming [ ] and some of them [ ]. Why? You must find the cause to stop the relative effect or result. You cannot do that by branching here and branching here aimlessly. And you hope that you can cure them. A patient suffering from, say, mental disorders - there are not such things as mental disorders. It is violation of a law and the restoration of harmony by telling the man what is what.
So, any questions now?
Tomorrow we will speak more about elementals and especially dis-energizing them, because this subject is not exhausted easily. And some of you are very, very thirst of learning one
90’00”
because some of you are running psychical centers. So it’s better that you are know more and more.
Q: Could you say more about the collective consciousness that Jung was
teaching about?
D: Collective consciousness that Jung was teaching about? Collective? It doesn’t mean that all those are not individually yours, but it’s a collection of the elementals you have created and that’s why it got called collective consciousness, not coming only from outside sources. You have many kinds of elementals in your subconsciousness, you term good or bad, very good or very bad. Less good, less bad. They are fighting. Inside you. Subconsciously.
While they are fighting, the stronger will dis-energize the weaker. We shall speak tomorrow about that. How to help the healthy elementals to annihilate the energy from the what we call ‘evil elementals’. When you say ‘collective’ elementals, it is the sum total of those elementals in … that’s yours. All of them are yours. Those are your individualities elementals - that’s not one, two or three - that’s why I call them collective subconscious. There is not any other term. Tomorrow shall be more about this store-house called the sum total of our elementals. And you need it in your psychotherapy.
[end of side]