1989.10.05 (part 2) also labeled 1989.10.10
Daskalos-October 5. 1989
Our Father Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory, forever.
Oh God of Love, of Life, enlighten our minds to understand the Truth. Clean our hearts to show your Love to you and to our fellows. Amen.
In yesterday’s lesson, we said that everything is MIND. The universes, and everything in the universes. When I say the universes and mean the mental, even higher, the psychical universes, and the material. Everything is MIND. MIND as supersubstance, substance and matter. Everything is MIND. And we said that the MIND in all the frequencies of its vibrations is the means by which the Absolute Beingness, as a Logos and as the Holy Spirit, creating with the Holy Archangels. We said that the Infinite Beingness IS, eternally. The Logos IS, and exists. And the Holy Spirit IS and exists, but the MIND is as the Will of God to express itself in itself, as Absolute Beingness, and exists as means by which the Holy Archangels, the Holy Spirit and the Logos are creating - now you see - the Creation.
Somebody asked me, sometime, this creation IS also, and exists, IS as the nature of God to express itself, IS as motion without anything moving, IS the Total Wisdom of the Infinite Beingness, because everything existing is in the Eternal Now, as Meditation of the Absolute Beingness. So the Absolute Beingness is, don’t say, an ‘Impersonal God’.
What is Christ now? But Christ is also the Absolute Beingness in expression. You don’t have a second God. And the Holy Spirit is also the Absolute Beingness in expression.
05’00”
Christos Logos is the Absolute ‘I-ness’. The Absolute Super-Ego. What’s that? Each Being now, god, God in his Multiplicity, as all the orders of the Archangels, are Beings. What is the characteristic of a Being, apart from the Beingness? The sum total of the Beings, what does it ‘Beings?’ And as Beings are all the Archangelic Orders, and Human Beings… Be-ings… Human Beings, every Human Being is an Archangel. So, what is a characteristic of a Being? The I-ness. And Ego.
Do Archangels have an Ego? Definitely they do have an Ego, but an Archangelic Ego, different from the Ego of a Human Being. We can find it in different expressions. What’s our relation, as an Ego, with the Ego of an Archangel? Any order Archangel? What’s our Ego, in reality? We’ll just give a very poor example, because we cannot have all these ‘Divine’ things, just the right examples.
I have that window. The sun is shining and the light of the sun are coming, passing through that window, and giving the shape of the window on the floor. It’s all light. Light from the sun until the window, light through the window - an obstacle to change the light - open the window, and then, the light - I see it - on the floor.
The light on the floor is our present day personality’s Ego. Our light from the window until the floor is our Ego as a sur-selfconsciousness. And our light, from the window to the sun is our spirit Ego Self-consciousness but what is that self-consciousness of the light from the sun to the window, what’s that kind of self-consciousness from the window to the floor, and what’s that self-consciousness of the light on the floor?
So we have an ego in 3 states of existence and being. Being, our Ego as a Being. As a Spirit Self Consciousness. Is the same as God. Our Ego, little bit smaller letters, but big enough - not as big as the skies and the heaven, big enough - is our Soul Ego. What’s our Ego now? Our light on the floor, with many, many things just to light them. And know them, because [] not that light on the floor,
10’00”
which is our mind, our present day personality, wouldn’t be able to know things, so we see many many objects, many many things on the lighted floor. That’s our present day personality. What’s that ego, now with small letters, we call the ego of our present day personality? Which we think we are something great… no, we are illusions, we a shadow.
I said yesterday, Human Beings are phenomena of Life. But phenomena of Life are all living forms all around us. In the [] the vegetable kingdom in the animal kingdom. Yes but what are we different, from the animals, having a material body? What is the difference, of a human being with any other animal? A cow, a lamb, a horse. They are living forms. They are phenomena of life. As a material body, we have no difference at all. A form, bones, blood, various organs in the body, just to live in the material world, in the material body. As a material body, we are no different at all from the animals.
And I said yesterday that our human body, or bodies, of course I mean the psychical and the mental is created, and continuously being in good order by the Holy Spirit and our Holy brothers the Archangels. The Holy Spirit is doing the same with any other animal soul it gives animals. The shape, bones, blood, organs… some animals are much stronger than we are as human beings. And the Holy Angels, yes, they work in the animals, the same way they work in our body. A Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael is providing liquids, fire, the red hot blood we can find in animals, and Raphael, yes, Raphael is working in the animal kingdom and also in the vegetable kingdom, but not in the same way Raphael is working in a human body.
Which is difference now? Life, rather phenomena of life and other phenomenon of life. And Christ said for the material body, blood, flesh is nothing - the Spirit is which that counts. And it’s giving the Life in the
human body. So what is the difference between a man, human being, man or woman - doesn’t matter - to an animal? A Human Being is also an Archangel. No animal is an Archangel. So a human being IS and exists. All animals are existing in the illusion of time and space. No animal is expressing a soul.
15’00”
Well. What is the purpose then of the animals? Why the animals have been created? Yes, this is something we’ll know.
As we have blood cells in our body, no blood cell has a separate soul… we are the Soul. They are phenomena of life, to serve whom? In a material body, to serve the person in the body. So all animals of the same kind, all over the planet, are the cells expressing the life of THEIR Archangel. Of an Archangel.
What about the Angels? We said in a lecture that THE Angels are the elementals of the Archangels! As we create and project elementals, the Archangels, most wisely, are projecting the nature spirits we call Angels in the creation, just to give the life to animal kingdom, or shall we say, all horses on the planet are the kind of blood cells in the Archangel expressing that kind of animal. Except… what is the Michaels, Raphaels and now Gabriels now doing? They are the workers! In the same way they work in the material body, they work in any material body in any living form, even in the plants.
So they are the workers, the Lords of the Elements. Now it is something that most [] who are those Archangels then? Who have as their cells - not say blood cells - but we can say that an animal on the planet, the Authorities, the Principalities. So the orders of the Angels and the Archangels are not only the Raphaels, the Michaels, the Uriels, and the Gabriels, they are also the Thrones, the Authorities, and the Principalities, for which very very little knows the Christian religion, and even the other religions. But the clairvoyant, and the serious student whose reach of studying goes beyond the phenomena of the material world can know the truth.
And even he can come in conscious touch with these Archangels, and know… know what? … about all the animals that supervise and get certain
experience. About this I can’t say. It’s beyond even my comprehension. But as a human being is projecting elementals, and Archangel of those orders is creating the forms and the life of a certain class of animals… the horses or the lambs or the cows, and all that on the planet.
Where is that Archangel? Where is the Archangel Man… in the material body?
20’00”
Only a ray of your inner self is in your material body. Only a ray is in the material body, even of your Soul Ego Self. And even that’s enough of how we have just something to call reasons, that not of the whole Soul is not in our material body. Yes, there is a one. What you can develop and express as an ego with small letters, the ego of the Present Day Personality, right now, is what is to get through the 5 senses and the material body. So that part of the ego with small letters, that ray - again - of your Soul Ego Selfconsciousness, because even that will be sanctified sometime. Christ said that.
So, but if you now as a Soul Self-consciousness get what I call the expansion of your consciousness, to what I call super-consciousness, and you are you, instead the material body as a present day personality, yet you are also away from the material body, either in projection or in exosomatosis. You are again you. Whether you, as an again ego with small letters or with bigger letters, an ego Soul is an ego. Now matter how you see it. So you are now what I call the Soul Ego Self-consciousness. You are not absolutely the material body. You can be in great, great distances, and if you develop yourself, to live consciously in the fourth dimensional world that means the psychical world, you can be everywhere. When I say everywhere I mean the sense of space as place. When you reach that state of Superconsciousness, a fellow in America can be in touch with you thousands of miles away.
So while are you I say solely of self-consciousness everywhere? Everywhere, yes, but not in every state of existence, I mean the psychical and the noetical worlds. You need more development. More spreading out - no spreading inwards - in the Kingdom of Heaven, which is in us according to Christ. Entering in the various dimensions beyond the fourth dimension, the fifth dimension, the sixth dimension. Beyond the material
world to psychical worlds, to the mental worlds, noetical, noetic, and even beyond. I don’t think we can find suitable words to describe worlds of the ideas. We can find words to describe the worlds we see forms
25’00”
What’s there? They are, it’s you again as Spirit Ego Self-consciousness. But what is that Self-consciousness now as a Spirit? You say ‘why you say all the time ‘self-consciousness’?
Because you are as a Being, self-conscious. Suppose you are losing your self-consciousness, what remains? You cannot be mortal losing your self-consciousness. Do Archangels express themselves self-consciously? Definitely they do.
They are self-consciousness is much different to what we call human self-consciousness. To interpret these idea and enter in the meaning of all that, you need deep meditation to distinguish between - the difference between - the self-consciousness of any kind, of any order of Archangels, and the human self-consciousness. I’m afraid you cannot swim in these deep waters. [] You have time in deep meditation, which is casting out everything material. Only forms. Silencing every emotion and every desire, to make the Soul-waters calm and crystal clear, instead of having a tempest in there, and then you enter in that state of comprehension. What we say? Is that comprehension the word? But do we have any other form? Realization, what’s the word. Comprehension. That must be much beyond knowing. It is in the world of attuning yourself and then becoming - what can we say - in becoming, and knowing realization. Is it a better word than comprehension? Self-realization.
So, what’s that? Life. Real life. Our life now, in the material world. Can you call it ‘life’? What did Christ say about life in a material body, and living, just the common life people are living? Recorded this, when somebody told him “Master you are so wise and I want to follow you, but I’ll do it after my Father and Mother pass over, and later I’ll come to you.” And he said “Let the dead bury their own dead.” He meant the living relatives were living the life they were living at that time, the life we are living now everyday. Why calling us dead? Because we are phenomena of life, very very poorly expressing life as a phenomena, and we are not living the life and the self-consciousness of a god. We live as animals. If I say the word human
animals, I check Johanna he says ‘don’t use this word’.
30’00”
Human beings should not believe that they are also animals. So, do animals express a Soul? No. They are the elementals, materialized elementals, of the Archangels and in between the Angels or the Nature Spirits, just keeping that form alive and in good health. Now, what about the human intelligence, and wisdom. Are human beings, now as they are today, though they are gods, wise? No. They are not.
Because they are too much entangled in the World of Separateness. The Holy Spirit cares about our bodies, and also our Holy Archangels, as workers. Of course if we inflict a wound on a fellow in the course of time some days that wound will be cured. You won’t see it any more as a bleeding wound. Because this is the creating work of the Archangels, and of the Holy Spirit. Does the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels care as much for the animal kingdom or the plants? I say more, because we are supposed to be able to use the MIND which the animals cannot use, so you are left just to use that MIND. You will notice that during the summer all cats pass their way down here. Why? Who is doing that? And the cats are casting their hair away. Can’t well you have autumn, and winter approaching, you see again hair growing, lovely hair, on every cat. Who’s doing that? Which intelligence is doing that? You cannot exist in any kind of animals around us and you will see the care Absolute Intelligence we call Holy Spirit working for them. Why it does not work for us? We are supposed to use the MIND. The animal kingdom cannot use.
So we must use our MIND. Now, what I want you to understand is this. All the creation of the material world or [] around us, all living forms are materialized forms, elementals either of the Archangels or the Archangels. Sometimes, they say for a man: “he’s possessed”. That means another Spirit is in his body and there is confusion. Many times they bring to me people. They say, “they are possessed”. Yes. Sometimes we find that such things happen, but most of the times they are all elementals that are getting possession of the material body. Again, they are possessed. They cannot tolerate human beings even their own elementals.
35’00”
So, what about the Archangels. And the Earth. And the region of the Earth, of the planet. Where the planet is the material body. All Archangels are using.. using the same matter to build up these forms. Why do the Holy Archangels do not quarrel amongst them, having the same material body? So the material body of the earth is the body of all the orders of the Archangels creating the living forms around, of the Principalities, the Authorities, yet they cooperate using matter, expressing the Total Wisdom of their Father, harmoniously.
But human beings cannot share their body which they haven’t built up themselves. It’s the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels who have done it. With anybody else, why not? If another entity, I’ll call it entity as a Spirit enters in the material body of someone, then there is such a disturbance that that man may be, may become mentally ill. Why? Is their body their own body? Did they build it? Do they take care of it? Do they keep it in good order and good health?
And I said again, some of what we say evil spirits having possession of a human body are their own elementals. Didn’t I say yesterday that the elementals that we project who shall not harmoniously with the law are our torturers? Especially if they are curses? Because blessings and curses come home to people. I’ll get from somebody this question. He’s not expressing it, he should express it… he’s a male person. Would you allow, Daskale, other spirits, to leave your material body? I say YES. Definitely yes. Many are using it. Many can come and leave in my material body. Not only what we call good spirits, but even those vibrating with me who want to be helped. An invisible helper of a higher rank is lending his material body, his psychic and his mental bodies as a place of meeting of other entities who need help. Why not. And if they have possession of it? What does it mean to get possession of it? Do I possess it myself? So when we get rid of the idea of possessing then we are free to help. Help other Spirits? Why? Because it’s our duty to help other human beings, other people, why not help one, those who have passed over? And attune themselves to us. And they need help.
Of course I can say, because some people ignorant will think that I’m dealing with spiritualism. No. A pure Ego is not afraid
40’00”
of helping other Egos who are in need of help. And I tell you, bringing them in your body, you can help them in a better way than just being away and out you attune yourself to them in what we call space. And of course these are very very difficult lessons, for the invisible Helpers only to be trained to do that.
We come again to what we call we create our elementals. Every thought… many kinds of thoughts…. every emotion, again many many kinds of emotions… desire, wish, creates an elemental. An emotional thought form or a thought-emotion form, whether we can see it or not see it. Any clairvoyant can see these thought forms a man creates.
So we said the time a man is thinking about something or wishes to have something, that something is created in the root of his nose, is not bigger than the head of a pin. But mind now, you have a different conception about space. Suppose it’s an architect. And he’s seeing something he’s supposed to create - a many many story big building. Is that as small as the head of a pin? Yes, he can live in that.. living in every room of the flats there. You can ask him “In what are you living now?” Were you to see that little thing in the root of your nose as a huge huge building and be in it and see everything in it. If you tell him the truth you’ll frighten him.
You see they become so small - one hundredth of the head of a pin, entering in that thing. This is the reality. [] is an illusion. Yes you can be there and feel a great ease. []
In the same way you can spread, when you reach the superconsciousness and hold the whole planet inside you. You are not becoming bigger to what you are. What is “I am I”? It is the range of comprehension and knowing that changes. You are not becoming smaller or bigger. The range of your conception is changing, only.
Now, we said that when a man wishes something, that something is as the head of a pin at the root of the nose. But after it projects itself outside, to natural size. If you take an architect, after the projection, of that thing he conceived fully in what I call elemental projected, do you think you’ll understand the difference? No. He can move as easily in that construction of his, not bigger than the head of a pin at the root of his nose,
45’00”
and also, after it has been projected to what I call natural size… well, I can see these things, and I have some architects - friends of mine - and I have studied all these things, but I didn’t like to puzzle them and tell them ‘when you first conceived all that big building, seeing that .. oh… in this flat it’s better to have this kind of fountains, and of course, in that place, which I’ll occupy, are put gold plated faucets… [] come it, you know where you are now! In your thought… what does it mean ‘in your thought’…
[end of side]
I have a friend who is a very very good architect. He studied in Italy. He was coming to me very often. He told me ‘Daskale, you know [ ] construction of many many flats, nicely ventilated, so and so, and you know, I make some changes in it. If you could only see.’ He said ‘[ ]’. He said, ‘Look here, when I will build it, you’ll see’. I said, ‘I can see it now. Do you want me to describe what I see?’ And then taught him [ ] what he had in his mind… in his mind. In a thought-form, not yet projected, as small as the head of a pin. I could move in his flats easily, as he was moving in his flats easily, making the changes. When I got the chance to show him the reality, I said, ‘You can. You know where where are now?’ He said, ‘Where?’ In your [ ]. In my what? In your [ ]. Being built up. Yes. But before you [ ] and cement, and iron, and water, and wood, and all these things, you have built them already. Said, ‘What?’ You have built them already… yes you did, and you can live in it now. ‘Live in it?’ Yes, and you make also correction!
And you say that this six story would be your place, and you’re thinking already [ ].
50’00”
‘But I didn’t tell you!’ You didn’t tell me but I know! Because I saw! [ ] ’Well, mysterious one… [ ] I saw your whole construction, which is really very very nice. If this is built. And you know, where is your construction now? He said, ‘where?’ Said, ‘At the root of your nose on that chakra, as big,’ I said, ‘as the head of a pin’. He said, ‘what?’ - Said, ‘yes’ - ‘but you can live in it, move in it?’ What are we? Smaller than a microbe not to be seen by electronics and microbes? I said, ‘Look here, it is difficult to
explain to you what you are, and what you can do. Of course he didn’t know anything about elementals not yet projected then. He told me then, ‘don’t tell these things to anybody else, especially to an architect, because they will take you to a hospital.’ Yet, this is the truth, I said. But you cannot understand it now. ‘No, no, no… don’t say that to anybody else. Sit with that because actually, I worry…’
He sold many many many flats, this and that, said [ ], what it is here, I have seen it, I said, before two years, in your mind… moving as comfortably as I am moving in your rooms in your flats now, when the flat is on the material plane. It was not bigger than the head of a pin until it [ ] .
Said to his sister again, saying [ ]… yes you cannot understand. Shall I tell you something? You see that, and earthquake can destroy everything. But that thing you had there, nothing can destroy it. In having, you can build thousands on this constructions. What is real now? What you have conceived before [ ] putting it on the paper as a plan or this thing here. Now, now notice that I am sure [ ]. I said ‘no more discussion because we’ll never have to stop.’
Now what’s big and small? What’s our ability in conceiving, knowing and understanding? We think as real what we touch. Yet as I said in a lesson, all this material world all around us is constantly changing. What was the house of my father I lived my life, my room, without comfort? It’s not existing on the material plane because it got pulled down and they have built there a many, many storied huge building. So it’s not existing now. I said it is, but not on the material plane. In the psychical plane, yes, it exists. Inside me, it exists. Whatever you can bring into your mind, that’s your own property. What’s outside in the material world, you think you possess it, but you don’t. Sooner or later, everyone is leaving it behind.
So you think to say, ‘Daskale…
55’00”
if we pass over, to the other world, what shall we be? In exactly the same house you were living in before passing over. And everything you have loved and you have there, they are there. Those are your real possessions, no thieves can steal and no rust can destroy, which Christ said. Not the material [ ] materially.
So, why is that? Every material thing has it’s counterpart in the psychical world and also in what we call the etheric world. But when one passes over, the psychical plane, then the meaning of space changes. And also of time. That’s why I say that time and space is an illusion. It remains what you call ‘place’. So, at the beginning you are in the counterpart of your building, your place, where fathers and mothers and brothers and sisters are living. With a difference now. You move about, you talk to them, and all they said to you… some of them think ‘what has happened to my people? I’m speaking to them and they cannot reply.’ So the Angels and the Helpers must carry you away. Not to be confused, and not to disturb, because you make them upset.
They feel something they cannot understand. You are in their mind, with them knowing that you are there AND in their mind. So to stop that condition, the Angels are moving you away. Moving you away, where? Unless you become a vampire and that’s a different thing. A great curse. Thanks God it is not something that happens frequently now, in our time.
So, what do you carry with you? All that you know and all your impressions. And you will live in your house, and there you can make repairs much easier than what you could do on the material plane, because your wish is making the repair. While in the material plane, you have to have money, workers, and do that or that, and even, if it would not satisfy you require it of them, then you pick other workers to do that as you like it. This isn’t happening to you as you pass over. Whatever you think and wish to have, it’s there. So you mean to say Daskale, that when we learn here what we call in meditation, visualization, we need it? Definitely you do, you need it.
Because one who become skillful in what we call visualization can do everything he likes, even while living in his material body. Build it, and when he passes over, he is very skillful in doing things with his thoughts. So what is real to us is not the material plane and material things [ ]. But MIND, not us solely matter, but mind as ‘lank’ so our real property
60’00”
is the MIND. So, for the Researcher after Truth, MIND is not only everything around us, a great tools, but everything for him, for her, shall we call it ‘The Kingdom of Heaven within us?’ Christ has mentioned, and
what he said? You should not pile treasures on earth, where thieves can steal and rats can destroy, but in the Kingdom of Heaven. Did he not mean that you think? Mind, and the other worlds was more real than the material world. Yes.
So, how do we reach that kind of knowledge? By studying and learning the things we create by MIND subconsciously and consciously, which we call elementals. Now do we mean that all those things in the psychical world are elementals? MIND, taking form. So we have many, many kinds of elementals. Living elementals in what I call these elementals, living again, but not in the sense of living as a cat and a dog, MIND is a living substance, a matter which serve us as buildings and other kinds of possessions, but the truth is that everything created by the MIND, and a wish and a thought of a human being… is an elemental. So our ability to construct elementals - create elementals - which is the correct? Creating or constructing? To construct elementals is learning what is life, motion, and the reality. In the world of forms, in the world of what I call the phenomena of life.
But this is not a game, because by training yourself, knowing that you can create or construct consciously elementals… make changes, replace them… play with them in the way you play with cards, know what they are… cards in your hand… you get a skill and then you say, all these things, whether they were material in the psychical worlds, in the mind worlds, in the world of forms, they are what? Creations. Either of Archangels, of Angels, of yourself. Then a step forward.
Who am I, being able to do all that? What am I now that I have freed myself from these illusions? How you do that? How you feel yourself? By every other thing that all that is not you, and you are not all that. I said, you are not the material body. You are not the emotions. And you are not the thoughts. Are you not the MIND? Where from did we get the MIND? Now this is something that very very few know.
65’00”
but you know it. Now a time came that things were mysterious and should be kept secret, should not be kept secret anymore. We said MIND is the will of God, and this will of God is manifested in MIND as total Wisdom, total Power and total Love. And you put a question “What am I then?” Am
I not God? Do I borrow now the MIND from the MIND’s stuff and substance all around me?’ Of course when you reach that point of feeling that I am I, the Spirit self consciousness, you feel that ‘I’ve the nature of the Absolute Beingness and wish and will is to project my [udwig?] then for the first time you can have everything by authority and not begging. Who is begging? The Present Day personality. Is the Soul Ego personality begging? No. But, of course you must reach that stage of feeling I am the Spirit Superconsciousness, spreading to feel that within me, as my own nature also. This what is in the nature of the Absolute Beingness.
So, you don’t need now to get the MIND and believe that you get something - the supersubstance of MIND and forming it into various forms around you, but all this within you. Because then you understand what Christ said “The Kingdom of God, of the Heavens, is within us”. I put in different words. You realize your nature now. You realize what you are now. When I said this lesson to the Innermost circle, one of them told me, “Daskale, so, when we reach that state we are becoming Gods.” Said, ‘No, you are always God, you realize what you are.’ You are not becoming something you are not.
No one will become a God. He is already a God. Now what’s a God? It is not Infinite Beingness, the Total of Beings as Beingness, as Absolute Beingness. So you are one. And many Gods. What does it mean, one God, yet many Gods? We are not []. We believe in one God, in the Absolute Beingness, and its multiplicity. When you say really we have thousands of cells in our bodies, blood cells, molecules, etc., etc. Can’t you accept I, it’s more to the I, it’s me. It’s not any of the molecules. Can the molecules say, “I am”? And mean you? They have the right to do it, if they feel they are. Can you say, I am all the sum total of the blood cells in my body? Definitely, they are in you. And you are alive.
There’s a difference now. Though as you as a present day personality can not know that, the bodies of everyone are his.
70’00”
He, the Logos is living in every body, in everyone living as human beings, and the beloved disciple says, “Christ, who is the Logos, is the light that lighteth every human being coming to the world.” As what? As motion, intelligence, love, self-consciousness.
Now, about self-consciousness and we said self-consciousness of [ ] is very different to ours. Yes, it is. Very different. That consciousness / self-consciousness are separated in two classes. Consciousness - impersonal consciousness, the consciousness of the Logos, and what I call now personal consciousness which are self-consciousness and the self-consciousness of the Archangels. This consciousness and self-consciousness is a staircase with many, many steps. Many many steps a human being has to climb. Do the Archangels have to climb the staircase, though they call themselves self-consciousnesses? No. They don’t need because they don’t belong to the world of the duality to have to feel just to climb the staircases, as a human being. Can fly there.
This is different between the self-consciousness of human beings and of Archangels. You said, ‘Cannot human beings reaching that stage of super-consciousness instead of climbing the staircases? Do they fly?” Yes, they can do it. There is nothing the Archangels can do and are doing that a Man-God… not a God… a Man-God cannot do. So the Archangels are not better than an Archangel Human Being, on the contrary, a prodigal son returning is in better position than any of the Archangels, and order of the Archangels, except the Thrones, the Principalities and the Authorities. But you know orders that means, Michaels, Gabriels, Raphaels, Uriels, the Lords of the Elements, are not in the state of a human being returning and going back home. Because, as I taught you in a lesson, they don’t know anything about time except as Eternal Now.
If you put them some questions, they’ll not understand what you mean by those questions. And now, again, if they try to explain to a human being what is the Eternal Now, you’ll not understand being under the illusions of time as past, present and future. But I think I will not say more because I will confuse you. But I want to say ‘what we think as life, being the phenomenon of life’ Life in a human body, is not really what we should be meaning as Life. Life is not in the material world. It is in the other worlds. Everywhere.
So, questions now?
Come, say it. It’s a long time you just to put a question - put it.
Q - You said before that by visualization we prepare
75’00”
ourself for the other world, and we can do there what we want by our [ ] , do we do this as people who have overcome, by their thoughts, influence people by matter, or only in the world of the psychical…
A - Now, wish I could - yes - by our thoughts. So you want to put express. By expressing ourselves as thoughts, being by our thoughts we are assimilating the thoughts to our ego. By our expressing ourselves as thought, can you influence other people? You can never influence anybody unless he or she vibrates at that same rate of vibration.
Q - Then, passing from different worlds, like from the material world, and from the material world to the psychic world?
A - Well, I will say something by experience. If we say that the material world is vibrations from 1 to 10, they have 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Psychical world is 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. The Mind world is 21, 22, 23, 24… so we have the same scale in a different what, different language. No one from the material plane who is in those vibrations, number 3, can influence anyone who vibrates in a different vibrations. No one in the psychical plane can influence anybody… have that in mind… if he vibrates in vibration 5, people being in other vibrations, in other kinds of vibrations… can the fellow vibrating in 5 influence people or rather 15, influence people in the scale of 5? Yes. Or 25. So what we have what we call concord and discord. [ ]
But now, can a fellow, let’s say a master, vibrate in a all the rates of vibrations if he wants to? Yes. So he can influence anybody, but he must either lower, or make higher, his vibrations and influence those vibrating at those same rate of vibrations. And especially from the worlds above. If a master is, we say, in the mental world, or he can be living in his material body and get living, super-consciously in the material world, vibrating in vibration 23. Very, very easily can influence those vibrating in the rate of 13 and 3. But, if he sees that he must help people, he can lower his vibrations. This is what the invisible helpers are learning in the innermost circle… how to lower their vibrations… there avoid or negative vibrations… the higher scale of vibrations.
So all the worlds, all the universes, the galaxies, the planets, everything material in this world, and everything in the psychical and mental worlds, are vibrations. Nothing more than vibrations.
80’00”
Of course, vibrations of MIND, as supersubstance, as substance, and super matter…. so is there nothing beyond vibrations? And what is called a master who is in the higher mental planes and can attune himself - attune himself - to those vibrations, just to help people, not influence people, but help people by lowering himself to their vibrations.. what do you call him? Hermes Trismegistus. This is just the highest initiation known before returning back home to our God Homeland.
So, one advances in meditation, in concentration, and in observation, he is a master who will teach you not only the nature of all those vibrations, but how to love himself at the time. What do I call that? Living more consciously. Becoming more self-conscious. What can he do? He can be here and still feel what is happening in many, many places all around him, many, many thousands of miles away. It’s a mysterious thing yet people call it telepathy. What’s… a science now psychology or parapsychology, speak and say these words without expressing what they really mean by telepathy. So it’s a matter of what you call telepathy.
Telepathy is a right word… I think why I don’t find it satisfactory, because telepathy means knowing, understanding and seeing what is away. What about feeling? Why not call it telesthesia, instead of telepathy? Yes I know you don’t like me creating new English words… [laughter] What was the word? Telesthesia. And I use another word, which is Greek. Telegnosia. But who can understand these words, unless they advance to know…
Q - have a glossary at the end of the book… I’ve explained your terms at the end…
A - I know. What other questions?
Q - You said that uhhh… I was going to ask a question… in ordinary human consciousness (yes) you were talking about the scale 1-10, 10-20, so the ordinary human consciousness, the consciousness in any given
moment is fluctuating up and down this scale, sometimes thinking all, sometimes some doubt in mind, or sometimes coming down in psychic feeling other times thinking oh, this body feels…
A - This cannot be by anyone unless he’s a master. Because it is not easy to ascend and descend at any moment you like, because people are on a certain step. They have to learn their lessons there, on that step. So, to go up and down, it needs more skill, and to be more advanced. Yes, but it’s possible. It’s something one should learn.
Q - Yes, But it then might be possible that there is
85’00”
somebody at a certain level that he always goes down instead of up.
A - A man who is any level… the highest level… can go as down as it is possible… to the bottom… as a master. Not fascinated by the environment, because invisible helpers are trained to visit all hells, and when they are into those hells, they are not influenced by those hells. Because they are what they are, and because they have to work there. It’s allowed, to work. Understand, really mean to be in a hell, the hell as a locality, as a place, is not bad. It isn’t bad at all. But those who are in that hell, how do they see it? How do they feel it? We’ll give an example. Our material world is very, very nice. You have in the mountains much sunlight, fresh air, smelling nicely the air, you feel it is right opening the window and breathe deeply and say ‘Oh, that’s alive!’ It’s all there, everything. Somebody who is working very hard will say I will earn some money, and I’ll have a week there in the mountains. And he is going there, hiring a room, enjoying the place, it’s a paradise… for him.
Yet in the other room, the next room, there is a fellow who is very, very rich, not satisfied of life, living in a stupid way, that means living in his hell. Every time, the one is breathing and thanking God, the other one commits suicide. Is there anything wrong in the place, the locality?
So, the hell is not in reality a place, but a condition, what is within.
Q - Attitude, or condition?
A - So, it’s a condition. Yet that condition and our understanding and our agree to understanding is creating for us a relative environment. So anyone who is seeing the hell, what people call a hell, which is a [ ] lives in his own hell, so in the same place, there are many who are living in their own hell. So an invisible helper can see and enter into the hell of anybody, and he has two things to see: the place, the locality, beauty and everything, and yet their prison, their hell, does it mean, physically, a place as a hell that man is, but entering in the hirovales to help them if you allow to do that. Who allows to do that? Their vibrations and their willingness to get rid of their hell. Nobody is remaining in any hell without his own will.
So everyone changes attitude and will, you can take him out. But now I can not put another some, that’s a lovely place, a very nice, say, hospital. Well painted, just to suit the patients there. Out side there are trees, birds, singing, and you enter there, and the nurses are closing the window and the curtains to have a little light there, because under this light, that fellow will feel more at ease, and recover. You are not supposed to open the doors and open the shutters and say ‘More Light!’
90’00”
And wonder that you have the light put it there. You lose it. Maybe that will unnerve him, and make conditions worse. So, even in those cells, the conditions are such by those Archangels, and Angels, serving there to suit the condition of each one. Hells are not punishment places. They are hospitals. And there you can find the Love of God. I have never been in any hell as an Invisible Helper to my brothers [ ] that is not a nice place, and where I cannot conduct God or the Infinite Beingness. They are more expressive than in every… they are in any other form. The mercyouss of God we said. No matter in which religion you belong, or denomination is at the world. There is not any punishing God. But a most merciful Father. And to think an entity as God, punishing, is the greatest blasphemy. God is merciful. So.
Shall we end the lesson today? Tomorrow we have a lesson, OK?
[end of tape]