1989.10.05 (part 4) also labeled as 1989.10.12
Daskalos-October 5. 1989
Our Father Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory, forever.
God of Life and Love, enlighten our personality to understand you and clean our hearts to show your Love towards you and towards our fellows. Amen.
We said, in previous lessons, nothing much about the etheric double. The etheric double for you now, should be a reality. Why a reality? Because you know now in a way how to use it. And you know much about the etheric double now. We’ll repeat a few things. Our etheric double is the
mould in which and by which the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels are building the material body. We said, the etheric double is not a result of the material body, but the material body depends on the etheric double.
Everything existing in nature has an etheric double. But, what is the difference between the etheric double of what we say an inanimate thing - there is no such a thing because every where there is life - from the etheric double of an animal, the etheric double of a tree, and the etheric double of a human being. I said everything to exist must have an etheric double. The quality of the etheric double of as we call it an inanimate object, a chair, or a rock, or something, has what I call motion. That means the vibration of the atoms composing it. Now orthodox science says much about the atoms. So motion is in any kind of etheric double, even of those inanimate things. Then we have the etheric double of the plants. There is more distinct motion. The moving inside the trunk, the liquids, life it is… life in the tree. So I have the kinetic ether there.
Now, kinetic ether in the form and not only the atoms composing that form, which I have in the animated things, as [ ] and all that. So motion is everywhere.
05’00”
Now, in the animals, you have a sort of emphana quality of the etheric double, apart from the kinetic ether, from the esthetic ether, the feeling giving ether. An animal feels pain. A tree, I don’t think it feels pain in the way we feel it. So, the etheric double of an animal has also the esthetic ether. What animals are lacking, is what we call impressing ether (imprinting). That means that quality of the etheric double conveying the mind as thought. So a human etheric double has also that quality of the etheric double we call impressing ether - I think that’s the name we give it - (man’s voice - we called it eventually imprinting ether because it was either impressing or impressible). Yes, we make call it imprintive ether (man’s voice - imprint or imprinting ether) Alright. So animals cannot use that quality of the etheric double of their own thought, unpointed.
So we have in the human etheric double the imprinting ether. Now what are these qualities of the imprinting ether? Twofold. To be in touch with the supersubstance of MIND and also, the other side, to enrich what we call
our subconsciousness. To provide to that part of our subconsciousness the elementals. Human beings are projecting, creating elementals. Do animals do that? Can animals create elementals? Intelligent elementals, no. But all the necessities of the animals create elementals, which elementals express themselves in the animal kingdom as instinct. Not thought. Not judging our thoughts. But as instinct. Is a human body possessing this instinct? Yes. But he is not using it. A few people use it. A little, not very much, they have what we call instinct. But, in the case of the instinct in a human being, the present day personality of that human being uses thought. At the beginning, subconsciously and later, consciously. What I mean subconsciously, make somebody repeat same things thinking about them without bothering how to create their own thoughts.
And really people all around us want even to find thoughts ready for them to use. I have noticed that, not only in the Greek community in Cyprus, and the Turkish community in Cyprus, but even from people coming from foreign countries. Yes, there is a great number of them - they accept thoughts, they use them without bothering much about it. Not the researchers after truth. Should use MIND forming it into thoughts, thought-forms, elementals, cause most people are getting these elementals subconsciously out of blind wish or desire, uncontrolled desires…
10’00”
and uncontrolled emotions. These are the elementals which Christ is mentioning in the Bible. They are, most of the time, destructive, torturing the one who projects them. And they return back, coming to roost. So. What a Researcher after truth has to do is either to revitalize sleeping elementals existing already or create new, according to his measures, from what I call supersubstance of MIND, now consciously.
One should project and gain elementals consciously, and creative elementals, constructive elementals, to be a real human being and not a human animal. Do I use the right words? (laughter). So, yes, that’s true. Most of the human beings are behaving like animals. Obeying to instincts, blind wishes, blind desires, and uncontrolled completely emotions.
What is their difference from the other animals? They do try to enslave the mind to serve the emotions. This is what we call the elementals … desire thought forms, or emotional thought forms. We don’t need them. We should
create of revitalize elementals, because thought-desire forms are only thought forms, which is different now. The thought-desire forms are constructed, created, consciously. There is behind it, a desire, a feeling, an emotion, most of the time gentle, a wish, yes. A psychical healer has the wish to see the patient becoming alright. He vibrates emotionally this way, but his emotions are gentle. When we say emotions, don’t think that all emotions are evil. There are good emotions, gentle emotions, and a Researcher after Truth should separate what we call gentle emotions from those very personal, which are not all the time clean, not to term them ’sinful’, emotions… to avoid the word, are not very clean.
So the Researcher after the Truth should be always [ ] what is going on in his personality, and gazing still deeper in his subconsciousness, because his personality is affected day and night by the subconsciousness which is part of it.
We spoke yesterday about subconsciousness and we say it is a kind of storehouse, gathering in it all of our elementals, having already brought with us, with our tendencies
15’00”
and working with that part of that storehouse, which is just his present day personality. We said in a lesson that the sum total of our elementals are composing our present day personality, and the quality of our present day personality depends on the quality of those elementals. You say “Yes, but what do we store in our subconsciousness? All the time bad elementals. Not to call them evil elementals, or sins. Don’t we store there also, good elementals?”
Yes, we do it, and an that part of our storehouse, its a constant fight between them. Amongst these elementals there is fighting. Can we feel that fighting? Yes, feeling the stings of conscience, because we are in touch as present day personality with that part of that storehouse we call our subconsciousness. More, you will find, after having yourself studying the present day personality in what we make … autoanalysis… introspection. Is that the word? (other voice… yes, self analysis). We said it’s enough 5 minutes before going to sleep. And now, but sincere work.
So, what other things we should know about the so-called etheric double in which occurs the subconsciousness? Yes, it is there. But now in what we call the etheric double, others are guarding it. The Lords of the Elements who compose it, cleaning it, the Archangels and the Holy Spirit. So we said that in our subconsciousness there is another place in the storehouse. The work of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels just for the good health of the material body. There we distinguish the quality of that etheric double we call creative ether. Yes, its right of constructive… creative ether would do. Creative ether, which is in the supervision of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. There is after our meditation, concentration and observation are first meeting with the Holy Spirit and the Archangels, being for right now a reality because I picked what we believe is not only what we have read and others before us found and gave it to us ready, but what we have investigate to know that what they have found is true. And we can find it.
I said in a lesson, and I was characterized as very ‘noble’, that we should look carefully in our personality and in our subconsciousness, not judge our behavior but just the quality of the elementals roosting there.
20’00”
Not judge and become masochists, as regards our present day personality, but see what we have stored there and how we should make free from the influence of that storehouse, the present day personality. What we find now? That apart from our present day personality self consciousness, we are also the Soul, helping the present day personality get rid of the vices of the past. Now we find that we are not only the present day personality, but something else, an Ego. Not an ego now with small letters, small letters, but we cut the letters…
So, double benefit. We realize that we are not the present day personality only, just something else… yes, we are the line! But the line has two parts… we are the two poles, and the whole line!
So the researcher after truth with his meditation, concentration, and especially observation, finds the truth.
I insist now that the system of our meditation, concentration and observation, is much better than any other system given by the east, because it leads to nowhere… But our system leads to a goal, the
realization of the truth. Many are coming. Hindus, gurus, pupils mentioning their meditation and achieving they said, some llama and samadhi, as they call it… the best they can do in meditation is be samadhi, having got to a kind of ecstasies… I said, yes, coming to that kind of ecstasies, feeling joy for whom? For achieving knowledge on earthly, material things only? Yes of course, we have circles and circles [ ] every circle has a circumference, doesn’t it? Now, what does that circle cover? So the circumference of a circle is what I call the ‘giving pleasure achievement’. [ ] even Gurus coming to me and they come and visit me on their way to the west, in London and other places, what are you going now to teach, going there?
What kind of meditation? Ah yes of course to achieve better will, stronger will… So of course it’s not kind of me to tell them ‘the circumference of your circle is not at a point, is not broad enough, broaden it, make it still broader… relieve yourself more of the enchantment of matter and material things and even of a kind of self-adoration and expecting others just [ ] also. So, our research has a broader, a bigger, circumference. The same tour of use, all the researchers after truth? No. According to the [ ] the circumference progress with what aim?
25’00”
And it [ ] you don’t need it. But of course it’s not easy to make you now understand what I mean. We want the point Ich bin Ich. I am I. Enter there, which what I call superconsciousness now, you break the circumference. But this is not for this class, nor even for the inner circle… it is different than the innermost circle. But [ ] realizing that we are gods. Knowing that we return back home.
Now we come back to the lesson. We have now to study the qualities of our etheric double, and how to use them. I tell you, reading books on yoga, this, you will know something about this…. centers of energy and vitality. They call them chakras. They located them here, and there, and even quarreling amongst them for the accuracy.
Some researchers after truth coming to me, the brought me many many of these books. Hindu… [ ] the best I found are in the books of Ledbeater. A great [ ] eye. He could see. He knew first hand and not by reading from others. Yes, he was using also the Hindu terms. We’ll not use any foreign
terms. We’ll call these centers “centers of vitality and energy”. Etheric centers.
We said in a lesson that we have three bodies. The material body with its etheric double, and all those centers are on the etheric double. But there, a center coincides with an organ in the material body, vivifying it, giving it life and energy. And we said, we have the centers on the etheric double of the material body, but we have also a psychical body. And we have centers there also which are called centers of the psychical body. And I have also centers in the mind body, noetical body, which are centers, again, of energy. With the same kind of energy? No.
Energy is the magnetism, energy is the electricity also. It’s energy. So we must see these centers of energy. Of the etheric double of the physical body. These are the centers to be used by researchers after truth. The others [later], in the apocalypse St. John the Beloved One mentions these centers. And he mentions seven. There are many, many more. When one advances, to use them.
He calls these centers of the etheric double of the material body ‘gatherings’ or ‘churches’. When he says ‘eglicies’ in the Greek word,
30’00”
‘eglicia’ means ‘a gathering place’. Why? Because the elementals are gathered there, and this is the gate of the elementals coming out and getting in. That’s why St. John is calling those centers of the etheric body ‘gathering places’. What he calls the centers of the psychical body? Lamps and he said that we just feel them going to give us strong light. And what does he mention and say about the centers of the noetical body? Stars. If you read the apocalypse, now you’ll know what the apostle meant. Because in the inmost circle, and even beyond, teaching the symbol of life, we are giving more and more information about these centers. Not only of the etheric double of the material body, but also the etheric double of the psychical body and the mind body. Very soon, it will come to light - able on the right symbols - but, I’m afraid we cannot reveal much because we don’t want to create magicians.
Now, a good friend has called me ‘the Magus of Strovolos’. And that I said ‘this is not a compliment for me’. I am the one who hates what we call
magic. Because magic for me means making bad use of the vitality for material things. So I don’t intend to reveal much so that and reach the world around us with magicians. I will reveal some to those who have killed completely their personal egoism, who he became according to the sayings of the beloved Margarita, a hermes de trismechisdus. Then, and only then, there is no danger of making bad use of what I call forces, vitality, the Divine energy. Some say, no matter what, we shall say it. But now, for you, I’ll speak about the centers of the etheric double of the material body, and how we use them. And how you would use them, as psychotherapists, because among you is a number of already people having centers of psychotherapy. In Switzerland, Germany, in America.
I don’t want to tell you that you are working blindly. But I’ll say that you are not working properly. You won’t work properly. There are certain fellows who will awaken in you your centers, your chakras, by using a pendulum, by using this and that. Nothing more stupid. You cannot open the bud of a rose by blowing over it. You wither it. It needs time, air, light. Now we shall teach you to give that, for it to open nicely. Nobody will speed up vivifying more than the chakra can afford energy. But with the
35’00”
right meditation, observation and concentration, and by practicing, you’ll be rewarded.
Had a good fellow who came to me the other day and said ‘sir, I belonged to the Maharishi school and then I went…’ he went everywhere, he had done ‘markai’ and the practical philosophy, what he can find in Cyprus and he said “I am coming to you” he said. “what do you want?” “Open my chakras”, started that. I said “what for? you must work, so that THEY open naturally and nicely.” Said, “yes, please. I just want to qualify myself to help other people.” Said, “start now. “Without opening my chakras?”, I said “yes! Some of them are already working.” Said, yes, but, Maharishi told us - I think he met Maharishi - that you cannot do much to others and that you would do not to try to interfere with their karma or help them, unless…” that unless… I said, “we don’t agree with your Maharishi anyway. I tell him, hear him. You see near you a hungry child. You see that hungry child. And you are a worker only. You earn some money, You have a piece of bread and a little butter. You see that starving child there, or a starving grownup, it doesn’t matter…you say, ‘no I don’t give you to eat… die of
starvation here. I will not give you anything now. What do I have? Bread and butter. I will help you when I become a banker.’ I see nothing more silly. If you become a banker, you will not have the will to help, first off, and even, if you become a banker, that child dies, or that grownup dies from starvation - you don’t feed him - and then when you become a banker you give him a hundred pounds…and not a piece of bread. Do you think that hundred pounds will be more worthy or the piece of bread you give him now?
Said, you can start being good, loving people, helping people. From now. But I will be satisfied to see you just putting some butter on that piece of bread. And that’s good. What I want to say now.
Already psychotherapists? yes. Continue doing your work. With what you know. With what you have. With the only qualification of loving the others, and have the great wish that will give something to them. Be of some service to them. This is what really counts. I tell you… many psychotherapists who did know how to do things, and they had that wish, to help… they have worked even what we call ‘miracles’. Without knowing what they were doing.
Because if the Holy Ones who know everything, see everything, would see that love of yours, they will interfere. But of course it doesn’t mean that we should not learn more and work better. Believe me, sometimes things happen, even if the psychotherapist… man or a woman… is not well [ ] …
40’00”
to everybody, all the chakras are working in some way. To know two people amongst you now, the chakras are working in the same capacity or in the same way. Never mind.
Do your duty by loving and with the great wish to help. That counts more than anything else. But again I say study anatomy. Study as much as you can the qualities of your etheric double, and you know also the etheric doubles of all of those around you. Make your etheric double with the Divine Holy Centers safe means for you to work. Do people make bad use of these etheric doubles? And of their centers? Many. Especially that center we call the genitals of a man or a woman. Of course, we get children now, the parents bring me their children just to instruct them what
is what and what they should not do.
So our researchers after truth do not care about these centers we call genitals. Those are in the hands of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. How to activate it, and when to activate them.
But people should be instructed not to make bad use or abuse these Holy Centers, because I tell you… seeing these centers on the etheric double of a man, that center is the most sacred. And the most abused. Why it’s the Holiest Center? Just that thing, the male organ, the female organ… yes. Because with that, God cooperates with you in creation. You bring into life Archangels to be incarnated. Yes, it’s the Holiest Center, there. You don’t bother both… the Holy Spirit takes care of it. What we should care that there should not be bad use of it, because that centers, that quality of the etheric double we call creative ether. Of course we teach about that mystery those who should know about it. Now, what is the next center? About this first center… how are the genital organs purified? By the sacred fire. Which is at the root of the spine. The Hindu call it Kundalini. It’s really… fire. It is the burning sword of Michael.
And I should not try anything unless he’s well affiliated with Michael. So, the second center which is the general storehouse of energy, and it is in the middle of the body, [profit from the pie] to that part and from that part to the head. Its what we call the Solar Plexus. It is in the belly, just under the navel.
45’00”
Why they call it Solar Plexus? Because a man who can see, a clairvoyant, sees there, a network of nerves and glands. Lovely. And radiates like a sun. In a healthy man, of course, that’s why they call it ‘solar plexus’. Yes, we will see about the Solar Plexus which is the store house of the vitality, the etheric vitality, of the whole etheric double in a material body. The next is the Heart. I will not concentrate in the center of this chakra. But we can go in the circumference or periphery of that circle, not in the center. Then, we have the thyroid. In the skull, between the two lobes of brain, there we have also mentioned, in the duality work of the Holy Spirit, centers of energy and we should not concentrate in those centers. It is the liver, and the lungs, what is under those [ ]. Also, on the other side, the spleen and liver. You see them on the symbol of life.
We care about the seventh? down pathway. The other two are sources of energy.
[ end of tape side ]
So, what we should do is what with the centers. Even we see the pathways of that teacher, you see the cartouches of them. It what the pharos only his feelings. You see, like two snakes going up. That’s what you call our duty is to work with etheric work… [ ] We find that, in the Old Testament, when Moses was right to pharo, asked him to leave Egypt, he put his bottom down the ground, and became a snake. The Egyptian magicians did the same… two of them. Had thrown their [ ] down, and they became two snakes. And the snake, of Moses say [ ] in the Old Testament, devour the snakes of the Egyptians. Which means those two forces - Hindus call them ‘Ida’ and ‘Pengela’, those two forces should be assimilated to the instant fire. So what we care is our spinal cord, the vitality going there, and we should not care much about these currents, which are not exactly vitality,
50’00”
but etheric electric or magnetic. Because, in the inner circle, we are teaching more about it. And how to treat dispasporis. Took off.
So, now coming to more practical works. We said we won’t bother about the gentials. Or about the serpent fire, as the Hindus call it. Anyhow, clairvoyantly, I have see, yes, at the root of the spine, a mass of fire. Especially you will see that when you are affiliated, also, with Michael. Seems that you learn to see.
Ascending as a river, yes, like a snake moving near the spine, and ending into a kind of blee… not head of a snake.
So, what is our work in the second chakra I have described, in the Solar Plexus? How we should vivify ever?
Yes, feeling in the belly through the imprinting ether in a blue-white light, a sphere of blue-white light, divided into two hemispheres, with a whitened disk… the center of the disk and the center of the sphere coincide. So when we do that, with what we call not-imagination… creative thought, we
find a point, making a circumference around this center which is the place under the navel, extending outside the body. We make the circle current from the genitals, right and left, reaching the sternum. That sphere, and that circle… Now, now I repeat it, we see by using the imprinting ether, a sphere of white-blue light. We divide it into two hemispheres with a disk. The center of the sphere and of that circle coincides. Then the sphere is inside the belly, fills the place we are sitting on our chair reaching up the distance, I say, blue-white light you can see on the symbol of life.
Now what you do. Kinetic and esthetic ether… we fill a point, just in the place you are sitting, behind the genitals, and then we start breathing. Six heartbeats or four heartbeats, according to your choice, I told you you are using, going up, round the periphery of that disk until the sternum.
So we are passing the liver, but we don’t concern there, on the liver. We are passing. Another four beats or six beats of the heart going down
55’00”
through the spleen. Pass through the spleen. But we don’t [ ] not only spleen. It’s dangerous. Going down again, another four or six breaths, going up, passing through the liver, down, four or six heartbeats, exhaling, going down, and you’ll do that for five minutes. No other thoughts. Full concentration, there on the work you are doing. Four or six heartbeats inhaling, going up to the sternum. Four or six heartbeats going down through the spleen, exhaling. You do that for five minutes.
You are not centering your attention, either in the center of the Solar Plexus, but you move around the periphery of that disk. This is enough to revivify them. Revitalize them. [ ] the Genevans. The chakra of the liver. And the heart. Because going up, you touch the liver. Just being the sternum, it’s the lower part of your heart. So you are moving in that way. Five minutes are enough each day. You don’t need more for this exercise.
Then, the next circle is the heart. Don’t concentrate in the center of this center of energy we call the heart. I say nothing more dangerous. Many people are suffering just because they get a yoga book, and be responsible feeling these instructions. The health of the material body through the etheric double is in the hands of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. You do that, for which you’re allowed to do it. So.
We go on the periphery of the disk. Not a center. We create that disk big enough to broaden the Solar Plexus disk and vivify, revitalize the spleen and the liver. The next is breathe deeply, and fill the chest with rosy-white light. It’s there on the symbol of life. Don’t concentrate in the heart. By so doing we will latch the circumference of the already existing disk, which to small [ ] is [ ] big coffee disk and then a bigger disk maybe of a big cup. That we project. We make it radiate. So, when we make in the chest that sphere, that from the side [ ] until [ ] in front and behind the back, and in the sides, as big as the already, bluish sphere. We divide it again into two hemisphere, with a disk. Again, the center of the sphere and of the disk coincide.
60’00”
When you do it with the imprinting ether, get another point now, the nubble. You see that the one blue-white sphere, and the rosy-white sphere enter one another. They enter. But the colors… only light… are not mixing. You will see clearly the white-rose spheres and the other part of the bluish-white sphere its impossible. Distinctly these colors, because if you mix these colors you find another color. No. You will see them as they are. Blue white and Rosy white. Yet I said, one entering the other.
What to do. You find the point at the navel, the Solar Plexus, then you count either four or six beats of the heart… inhaling, go up… of course you pass above the liver… you are under the arm, you include the lungs. You don’t use [ ]. You go up until the sideways, four or six beats of the heart and inhaling and exhaling either four or six beats of the heart, going down. We pass under the arm. Going down, again, until the navel. What you do? You touch the heads of those two serpents.
Where are those two serpents? Starting from the genitals, going one way and the other going, and again, going under the other. Then of course the other way, again, the other side going up, passing from the lines, going under the other part, now you’re passing through vivifying the energies… yes but rendering them harmless now. Can they cause any damage to the body? Many many times, they do it by causing inflammation of the lungs and damages the heart. We said these two snake like energies are magnetic and electric. They are changing their nature every 20 minutes. When one is electric, the other automatically becomes magnetic. Then the
one becomes magnetic automatically the other become electric. Now, more I cannot reveal. What’s electric, what’s magnetic, and how you can use them.
Now, sometimes you catch cold. And you find that your nose is blocked. What you observe? That always your nostril is open. And you’ll notice that when the right nostril… is OK, after dilating, this consists not in reality. Why? I said observation is something most desired for Researchers after the Truth. It’s just the changing of these currents. So you can note the effect of these currents. Now. You can do these two exercises, and I’ll not give you more, regarding the center, because unless you are trained and you have a master near you, you shouldn’t treat.
65’00”
But we speak again, something. The thyroid, you have an orange color - little this - not very big. It doesn’t become bigger. It contracts and concentrates in that size only. But the other centers are enlarged. What is the work of this little disk? Having insight into the thyroid… orthodox science knows that the blood passes from the thyroid every 30 minutes. The whole blood in the body. Why? What’s the work of the thyroid? To kill all germs and micros in the blood. So the whole blood, every thirty minutes, passes through the thyroid. Yes. All searchers after truth all through the ages knew that even before orthodox science discovered the circulation of the blood. When they were speaking about that, they are calling the mystics fools and insane. Now they are finding out they speak about the circulation of the blood. So concentrating in the thyroid… there you can concentrate not more than five minutes…
Breathe deeply and fill the thyroid… no danger… having the wish that the whole blood will be free of germs and multiply. Whether you do it or not, the Holy Spirit is doing it. But it’s good that we do it consciously and the Divine Intelligences will notice us and help it.
So, we will not speak more about what we call the centers in the body, but outside the head here. If you concentrate at the root of your nose for some time, you can become clairvoyant. You can see in a distance. What are the faculties…is that the right one… faculties you can gain by this work? Abilities, faculties, what’s the right word? Faculties. Concentrating in the solar system in the Solar Plexus there, you become subconsciously
clairvoyant. All these things was known in the old times. By the Jews, by the old Egyptians. Now many, most evil, hauling, [say see] their [abassos] are practicing it. What it gives you?
In the bible, we find the old pharos got that thing [sot] concentrating on the navel. Yes, you see things, but not the things you want to see. And if your psychical body is the entrance toward the psychical world… if your psych-atom is not clean… vibrates with lower emotions and hatred, envy, anger… it opens you, according to your vibrations, to those vibrations of the psychical plane I might call it a hell.
Your pure, good, is the gate to your heaven - to your paradise - but who, living now, in this world, are so clean in heart? So I don’t suggest that
70’00”
that you concentrate in the navel, but do exercise going around the periphery of the disk because it may open you to a subpoena of the psychical world which will be world-like. Instead of simple things, you’ll see your own elementals in your subconsciousness which coincide with the hells of the psychical plane. So it’s better to know more about the psychical body. We spoke about the etheric double of the physical, of the material body. You will [not pum] your psychical body and be sure of it’s quality.
So I don’t suggest concentration in the center of the Solar Plexus… yes, it may make you subconscious clairvoyant. Not at will. But if you are, again, pure at heart, concentrate at the root of your nose or in this space say, a little bit further than the root of your nose, you open the gate, again to clairvoyance, but now, consciously. That means what you will see… not what comes… that moment but your going to see something in distance.
By opening the chakra, you will see what you want to see. You become consciously clairvoyant. Some of you are consciously attuned by trying to concentrate in between the eyes, they’ll catch things, especially if they want to see them. What most of the people see? And what we say that? Kenapathy. Now you know what’s kenapathy? On theognosica… something like that. Now the future will teach you how to make good use of these things which we intend to develop. Now, through what we call imprinting ether, we order subconsciously, or consciously, our subconscious to obey us. First, through the psychical body. That means
wishing to see a result. And every wish is in the psychical body.
So at the beginning a psychotherapist, what they’ll do? Put their hand on a table with a white cloth… a fairly white cloth. Put your hand, the fingers up, intruding imprinting ether, see the hand full of white light, radiating white light. And feeling it, movement, move the finger. Move the fingers! Feel them. That’s esthetic ether. Move them, now leave them quietly there, the fingers. Concentrate from the tips of your fingers, the palms up to the shoulder. Feel it with imprinting ether, see it full of white light. Now is the time to order the subconsciousness. This hand of mine, hand of light or material hand - say that to understand it - I want to become healing, curing. Magnetic or electric - it’s the Holy Spirit to decide. And again, later you will decide. Electric or magnetic.
75’00”
See it for five minutes. Feel it. See it with your thought. And have the strong desire to become a healing hand. I tell you in a week’s time, when you do that, you will feel the results. When you touch somebody, the etheric will pass and you have difference. You see what you can do. But at the same time, say to your subconsciousness, no matter how much energy will come out of my hand - that the Holy Spirit will decide who will use my hand - and use what is HIS, the vitality is not yours, you are not giving the energy, but his. Will keep me in touch with the source of vitality, by its love, no matter how much vitality I will give, I’ll be full of vitality. Don’t you [ ] forget there are many psychotherapists who say ‘I pray for a quarter of an hour and I can do this or that and then I feel exhausted’. It definitely exhausted because they don’t want and they don’t know how to open themselves to the source of love and energy and vitality. And sometimes more than 80 people have been cured in our center by your Daskalos… maybe… he’s a human being! Feeling tired. Getting up in the morning feeling tired. I’ve got [ ] no, I have to do my duty.
It happened, many, many, many times, to feel weak in the morning. And before opening my eyes, patients were sitting outside. I never sought to say, oh, I will get exhausted. What can I do? How I give them my vitality… said ‘whose vitality?’ Mine, or his?
Start, it happen a day, more than 80 people, 70 out of the 80, to be complete cured from very, very serious illnesses. [ ], and then, breathing,
feeling that I was full up of energy and health. Is that not a reward? [ ] like I’d given, because I have a habit never to ask anything for myself. Have that in mind. So. But say to your subconsciousness before starting, no matter how much energy or vitality will come through my hand, for that one, I will be full of His love, and His energy. You’ll fuller, now. So some of you should do that because I know that five or six of you are practicing now as psychotherapists.
Now we got a very, very precious lesson. Don’t touch any book on yoga and this and that, and you think that you become expert. No. Time, the right way, and safe way, because I tell you, there are certain informations that are very, very damaging. Believe me, and what I taught you in on lesson this is: Never avoid using what I call ‘sense’. Everything you do
80’00”
should pass from the right use of the MIND. When I said ‘right sense’, I don’t mean only ‘common sense’, because sometime ’common sense’ is inadequate. Right sense. Something else. How should be know that it’s the ‘right sense’?
Never start something without praying. First to enlighten you what to do, to help you. Because HIS Love, to the person you are supposed to help, is much, much greater than your love to him or to her. So tell HIM, you have that fellow, and you don’t love him, much, but try, to know how to love. You care about him… he bleeds and lives. You care about what is going on in his body, as circulation of the blood, metabolism, and all that… already you care for that fellow. What I see is just an illness or something. Help me help him. Help us. And never think that you are doing something yourself. A psychotherapist to become a mental therapist… you just kill his egoism. What I see in you… quite a somber person, and adoring your present day personality. Believe me, if you succeed in killing egoism, and leaving the present day personality, you will feel your inner soul consciousness, Soul Self, instead of a devilish sometimes egoism, you find an Angelic dignity, of self respect. I wish you to feel that.
Now, any questions?
Q: Can you say something about de-vitalizing the elementals.
D: There are two ways. Those elementals torturing you. They are just, just that woman you can devitalize them easily. By saying what? I don’t give you more attention, vitalizalizing. So, the best way to devitalize an elemental torturing you is to not give it any attention and decide to stop caring about it. Don’t think that that elemental will give it up. I saw some people who were heavy smokers, they tried many many times even stopping smoking, a week, a month and back again. Why they didn’t succeed? Because they are fighting them to give it up. Fighting, subconsciously, you give it strength. So if we want to devitalize any elemental, of smoking, of drinking, or of any other weakness, and other weaknesses, each one of you will understand what I mean… is stop thinking about it, and relieve yourself of the interest for that. That will be devitalized, and go to the cosmic consciousness. But don’t fight it, you’ll be defeated. That’s not only for smoking. It’s also for any other torturing you, as an elemental.
85’00”
Once, when I was young, during the war, everybody was smoking. I was a captain in the Army, by the wish of the government, that a number of us should go to Egypt and come back as Captains, and excuse there were many many of us. Because most of them were smoking, English people, they were smoking. They were offering us a cigarette. But in reality, I was smoking, never before my father. So when I came back from Egypt, I kept it now, with sisters, the government now were waiting me in my office, [ ] in the government then. What my father did, he offered me cigarettes. “Captain, have a cigarette”. I told him in Greek, ‘the government [ ] knew Greek’. Yes but, I would never smoke before my father. He said, ‘Captain, come, come, for three years been smoking alone’. [ ] but I never smoked before my father or mother. For a different mentality of the time… good manners. Now, I had an English man there who utilized the English good manners, [ ] really what… ‘don’t be afraid’, because unfortunately I was brought up English manners with an English nurse. So, I got a cigarette and started smoking. For some time, of course, I was smoking. Don’t think as only smoking, heavy smoking. Taking it down.
Well, sometime I said ‘he’s having [ ]. I started studying the case. [ ] Don’t care about it. They’re under a fellows, if an English fellow can… he just lit a cigarette and started smoking. I felt the desire smoking. But to my shame, I didn’t have cigarettes. Told him, I said, ‘[ ]’. I said to myself,
‘how tricky use you’re a slave of that Elemental, because you saw him smoking, you are smoking? You want to smoke? Yes, I felt the other desire to have a cigarette. Then I said, uh uh. Now. I catch you. You are coming to me, cunningly, to make use [ ]. But that English fellow was a friend of mine, he gave me a cigarette. Wanted to him.. I squeezed it like that and said ‘NO’ I could become incurable. You have what for a cigarette. Now [ ] throw it down, I will explain to you later. What have you? Just to put it down. That English woman was very curious to know what was that extraordinary behavior of mine.
I said, [ ] you have now, the practical… stop fighting it! Change mind when you feel within you this desire, say no but don’t fight it. Disregard it as a thought. Then it has to go. And I tell you, by fighting something as an evil habit, it’s not enough [ ] or it’s an English habit, and opportunity, I can’t help you. I cannot go there. I cannot do different way. No. Just forget it.
[end of tape.]