1989.10.05 (part 1) also labeled 1989.10.09
Daskalos-October 5. 1989
Our Father Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive them who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory, forever.
God, enlighten our minds to see the Truth. And make bright our path reflect Your Love towards you and to all the human beings. Amen.
Now in previous lessons, we said everything is MIND. Matter is MIND, solid MIND. So, Everything is MIND and is made from the supersubstance we call MIND. Galaxies, Solar Systems, everything existing as solid. So everything is MIND existing. But the Absolute Beingness is. And exists. Is eternally in its Absolute Divine nature. And exists, through MIND. MIND is the will of this Infinite Beingness to express itself in Itself. Not in time and space, which the Absolute Infinite Beingness is not. So, find two things. The Absolute Beingness, we call God the Father, who IS and who with Divine, Constant, Absolute Meditation - if you call it, we will call it like that - makes things exist, and He exists, as the Logos, and as the Holy Spirit.
So what are we, in God, and in relation to God, we call the Absolute Beingness. We call the Absolute Beingness, the Logos, and the Holy Spirit ‘God’, because there is no other term, though by word ‘God’, we bring the Absolute Beingness to our measures, to the human measures.
So, what is and exists, is the Absolute Beingness, and exists as the expression of its meditation, having the Beingness in Himself, or the Beings in Himself, to express himself and themselves.
Who are these Beings? Now, first of all the Absolute Beingness is Life. Life in its multiplicity, because in the Absolute Beingness, the Holy Monads are, not exist, they are, eternally. You see them on the symbol of life, that circle as dots.
05’00”
And in every Monad, Divine Monad, there are billions of Beings. Gods, eternal beings. Such beings are not in the Absolute Beingness, beyond the Holy Monads…nobody knows. Anyway, if they are out there, they are IT, the Absolute Beingness, not defined, not expressed. So shall we say that the Holy Monads are the collective expression of the Divine Beingness, ready to express itself in time and space. But what’s time and space? Space is the Absolute Beingness. Time? Time does not exist if there are not expressions or events. How are we to understand what’s time?
So through the collective - the condition - we call Holy Monad, Beings - Gods - are to express themselves, now in what we call time and space.
But again, time and space in the various worlds in the various dimensions, is different. Time is what we understand and conceive by seeing events, judging events. Otherwise? What’s time? Many times we said, that there IS, there IS the eternal now. And exists the idea of time, which is the relation of the eternal NOW to what we call time, which is past, present and future. Of course definitely, there is a relation between time and the Eternal Now. No need to try to understand what is the Eternal Now with just a handful of what is our material brains. Of course, if we met not in this way - material bodies - anyway material - in another dimension, I mean in the mental world, maybe there, we would know more.
But again, not by words and by teaching, but by assimilation and attunement. This is the point. So no need to understand the Eternal Now. You put me the question “Do you know what is the Eternal Now?” Yes, I do. “Can you explain just what’s the Eternal Now?” No. There are no words to express the Eternal Now. You know the Eternal Now, you know what’s eternity. You know what’s the Absolute Beingness. What IS the Absolute Beingness. What is the Absolute Beingness in the Worlds of Existence. Yes, you can know. This is much easier.
So, enough to know the Absolute Beingness as Christ, the Logos. Enough to know, by understanding and meditation, and observation, what’s the Absolute Beingness as Holy Spirit dynamically in all living forms around us. It’s enough to know what’s life. What’s life? God. The Absolute Beingness. So, the first things human beings
10’00”
can understand about God is that the Infinite Beingness is Life. And the Logos and the Holy Spirit are phenomena of Life in the sense of time and space. What are we, now?
A human being. What’s a human being? Life? Or a phenomenon of life? If we were only a phenomenon of life, we would not be eternal. We would be mortals, coming from somewhere and ending our expressions somewhere else. What we call space and time. But that isn’t so. We are life, sons of God of the Almighty, Eternal, as Ego Spirit selves. Ego Spirit Selves. And we exist as phenomena of life in the worlds of the phenomena of life… the worlds of the MIND, the worlds of the Emotions and the material world. So what are we? As a human being? As God?
Ego Spirit self. Again, self. We have that I-ness or Ego. Even Christ has this collective I-ness or Ego. When he says I. I and the Father - he means the Absolute Beingness - are one. Yes, he didn’t say “I, the Father”, he said “I and the Father are one”.
So, what is now and I-ness or an Ego, from the Greek word ‘ego’ and the latin ‘ego’. What is it? A living God expressing itself in the world of time and space as a living entity. Living entity. (If) we were not life, how would be be able to address ourselves as a phenomenon of life? Because from nothing, nothing comes. So, a human being is an Ego Spirit Self with self realization, because if we were something without having our self realization or our I-ness this as if we are not existing. So we differ from the Buddhistic now theory of nirvana which they think is something like nothingness. Such things do not exist.
We are and we exist. We’ll always be, and we’ll always express ourselves in the world of existence, which means reincarnation.
So, as I said yesterday or … no, Saturday… Friday it was… As I said, the Divine Beingness, the Absolute Beingness expresses itself as Will. And expresses itself as Logos. You said ‘the Logos is what God provides’. The existences or beings and existences as human beings as self conscious. And the Holy Spirit is what the Absolute Beingness provides. The material body, the psychical body and the Mind or noetical body to build a body in which the Logos will express that I-ness. Or that self-consciousness. So
15’00”
the Logos expresses in the living forms… not all of them, in the plants and the animals… but only through the human being what we call self-consciousness. Self-consciousness is a Divine gift to the phenomenon of life. It allows us to express ourselves - Divine Beings - as phenomenon of life in the worlds of existence. So, we are Spirit-Ego self-consciousnesses, in God’s Absolute Beingness, Spirit, but Absolute now self-consciousness. And of course Christ, the Logos, Joshua, instructed “God is Spirit and those who need approach him, must approach him in Spirit and Truth.” He said that in the Greek language. [Greek language version] because Christ was preaching in Greek, in Aramaic and in Latin. He said these words in Greek. Found in the Bible.
So, unless we are Ego Spirits eternally, how would we approach God in Spirit and Truth? So. What are we? Ego Spirit Self consciousnesses. Or Self Super-consciousnesses. We are. And we exist now as human beings in the world of existence and you can find a human being in the material world having a psychical and a mental body. Or you may meet him in the psychical world having only a psychical body and a mental body. And you may meet this human being - human being - in the mental world expressing itself only through the Mind body. All the time a human being, which means having the human form. Now we come to the form.
All of us know the human material form. Some think that, after a man passes over, or as they say ‘dies’ - after he dies… nobody has ever died… passed over - what form that fellow has in the psychical world? It’s human form. And after what we call the second death, living only in what we call the mental or in the Mind world, what form he has there? Again the human form, only in the substance we call MIND. So what’s the form now? The expression of what Christ calls the ‘Divine Man’, the Idea of Man. And we spoke in previous lessons about the ideas and the forms. No form can exist unless it is the reflection on an Idea.
What’s an idea now? The Divine meditation of the Absolute Beingness. And then idea is cause and knowledge. Now,
20’00”
suppose a human being - very advanced - a Master, say, reaches the stage beyond the mental world. In the mental world, we find the world of forms. The ideas take form. Suppose he enters in that realm beyond the world of forms. The world of the ideas. What are ideas to him? What are forms to him? Forms are the expression of an idea - relative idea - in what we call time and space. But the idea, the cause and the law projecting forms, is in the eternal now.
Now tell me. Do you know this state of things? I say ‘yes, I know’.
To learn any form, living form, around you, whether it is of the plant kingdom, animal kingdom, or human beings, you need time and space. So you need time, though I say time is an illusion, yet you need that thing you call time. Aided by trying to know what a human form or any other form in the material world, or a form only in the psychical world or in the mental
world, which is different now. It takes longer to know and understand something living, as living form in the material world. A botanist, just to know one kind of the vegetable kingdom, needs years and years and years studying, observation, analysis… to know, what? Something about that material form.
Yes, if we try to study things, because the psychical world is full of glory. Everything that exists on the planet in the material plane exist there and still more and more, these do not exist in the material world. If you are going there in the psychical world to study something there as a living form, there are living forms there, in the psychical world. Again you need time. You learn more and more quickly but still you need time. And then you need your ability of meditation, observation and concentration there. That means studying something, as something that is not you, and trying to understand it.
Yes, you need also time. The same thing if you study something as a living form. Living forms exist also in the psychical worlds and in mental worlds. Again you need time. But the time you need in the material world that will take you some years, in the psychical world it will take you, studying it, some months. And studying something in the mental world, it might take you a few hours. This is the difference in understanding time, and still you need to concentrate, meditate, if you can live, not consciously, superconsciously, there. Because actually superconsciousness is there and not the usual consciousness you understand.
In the world of the ideas,
25’00”
you want to know something through an idea… can you know in the same way studying the forms? Something more, there you don’t need to concentrate, meditate as you do studying the living forms, no matter whether they are in the material world, the psychical world or in the Mind world. There, you are a Spirit. You don’t have a usual self-consciousness, but you have what I call self-superconsciousness. What is the self-superconsciousness? I’ll explain.
You are in the world of becoming, and not studying, concentrating in a form, not on a form. You enter in the world of first attunement then of
at-one-ment, becoming one with that. What. Some need some time. There, only in an instant, by becoming, you know everything. How? By at-one-ment. Some people think that by passing over, and over again from the psychical world to the Mind world and from the Mind world beyond, they are losing interest. Nothing more ridiculous. They are entering in their own nature, becoming Gods, and knowing, by at-one-ment, everything concerning them.
Now, about what we call the idea. Say the idea about a tree. After the idea of a tree, are all the trees existing on the planet. Of course then, you have the form. In an idea, you have billions of forms. Governed, again by the Holy builders, the Archangels of the Elements. But to reach that point, you must be able to attune yourself with your brothers, the Archangels. How you’ll understand their world?
So, when you enter in the idea of tree, are all the trees in that idea? And you must select again. Further expression in time now, yet being in the world of the ideas. What is this ray from the idea of a tree? That would create this kind of tree or the other kind of tree or the other kind of tree? Very interesting world to study especially by attunement now, not at-one-ment. Then by meditating, you know something. By at-one-ment, you know everything. So which is the better world to life? The material world, under the illusion of time and space [a few words in German], but you must go there to understand it, not as long as you are ‘down here’, studying events.
So, where is life, real life? Who is living? A human intelligence? A being? Or the Logos? What’s a synonym but, from, between, a phenomenon of life? To life?
30’00”
Now I tell you, what is death? What is death now? Maybe the greatest illusion. There is no death. Death means change, and to have the change, it means we must have motion. But motion is the Absolute Beingness. But the Absolute Beingness is life. So even change is life. Why should be we afraid of the change? I said in a lesson, that one becomes the world of existence a spermatozoa. Pregnancy, giving birth, male or female, infancy, growing to become young man, grown up man, and old man, passing over. But all through this, changes. As a person said, ‘I am dying
every day.’ And I said, now I put you the questions, you are 30, 35, 40, 50 years old man or woman… why didn’t we change the name with these [] or with these markers and use those things? You tell me ‘Its me! As a consciousness.’ But as a body, it’s dead. And if I put you the question “After 20 years, if you are living, and I’m dead - although I don’t wish to, because I’m already past an age - what’s your relation with that person of now, with the before person of 20 years? Material body? Changed. Completely. Every seven years, not a single cell remains in the body. As a psychical body, all your emotions are changing from day to day. Even the psychical body is undergoing changes. As a mental body? The same. Every day our thoughts are changing, as we become, as we say, ‘wiser’.
So, the material body changes every day. The psychical body is changing every day. Our mind body, the noetic, changing every day. Who is not changing? I. You. What’s the relation with that child? Now, I am a self-consciousness. No matter if my interests are changing any my expression is different. I am life. This is the common place. If I put you the question “well, after passing over, who are you?” I am I? But this question I can put it to you from day to day! That change that you call death or entering as a self-consciousness in a state, a phenonena, not real, of annihilation, you undergo every night! At least for certain moments, not hours. And then you recompose yourself next day. And George is George, Mary is Mary, and Antony is Antony! When you wake up, you recompose yourself. Which? The body? The body was lying on the bed [], and the Holy Archangels of the Elements and Holy Spirit repairing damages you have done, all through the day… so the body was there living! No change with the body, except the pulses of the heart now
35’00”
not so quick. But the body now living… it was living all the time. Where had you been during a dream-less sleep? And what is sleeping? Because certain hours, you have done so many damages in the material body, you have been chased out by the Holy Archangels to give them time for repair! (audience laughs). Yes that’s the cause of sleeping. And then come back again… ‘we have cleaned your home, do come in!’ Again, this is as simple as that in reality. And so, you coming back, you recompose yourself in the body. You were you all the time in the psychical plane, you didn’t need to compose yourself in the psychical plane.
Now it gets from we thought of some who quite don’t remember our life in the psychical body. We got from who. From the elements after. Because we did not quite bridge the gap between the psychical body and the material brain. And if you, by exercises as researchers after truth, you succeed to bridge up the gap… which is possible? Not very easy though. There will not be for you sleeping and not remembering where you are and what you are doing. You have a continuous self-consciousness, whether you are in the material body or outside of the material body. Even going away from the psychical body in the Mind body, there will not be a break of self-consciousness.
And I go further - passing over and not going back in the material body, because you don’t want it anymore, there are no breaking of the self-consciousness in going in the other dimension and worlds. That is what Christ meant when he said ‘some of you will not know death’. He didn’t mean that they will not get rid of the material body. That he meant - what he meant - it was there will not be a break in self-consciousness in what we call passing over. Now, I tell you. Really there is no death. And those who are afraid at what they call death, why they are not afraid sleeping at night?
Since they are going outside of the material body, which is the difference? They will return the next day…enter in it, start this say maybe foolish way of living, as the previous day, they would have more senses it would be very good. But most of the days, and every day, and every day, passing they live the same kind of life.
So, what is death? And Christians, we are Christians. What St. Paul says about death? He mentions. He says “Where is your power, oh death? Where is your sting? Where is your victory?” He says in Greek: [greek words]. That means the stinking. Where is your odor? [greek words] - in Greek. So, if you are Christians, shall we believe in what St. Paul said? Shall we believe in what Christ said? Well, at the beginning yes, but it will be wiser to know, yourselves, by living that kind of life, and exercising in that way, to have you yourself consciously
40’00”
this knowledge. And I tell you everyone sooner or later will have that experience. So that means living fully and consciously stepping out, through death to life.
So, I will come to another point of study. After knowing all these things, theoretically at first, by practicing we’ll know these things. Practically, someday. Until then? But until then we have to work. Work. Practice. And living more humanly. Living better. Now all of us know, by theory, those of us sitting there, that we are human beings living in a human body - we call it the human form - whether one is a man or a woman. We can study the material body. Many scientists have studied the material body, and are giving valuable information as regards the material body and what is taking place in the material body. What I advise you to do especially those who will become psychotherapists, they shouldn’t work blindly not knowing what they are doing. Then, in separate stead, after studying the material body, not even studying from the very beginning the psychical body. Start studying your self-consciousness. Your I-ness. Just make an analysis. Apart from my material body, what am I now?
There’s certain [] studying human bodies men and women, there is greater relation between two bodies. But you cannot study the personality of a man and know the personalities of all men. No two men have the same personality. And if that that present day personality was the product of the material body, the all the people as personalities should have been the same. And they are not.
So the present day personality is not the product of the material body. Have that in your mind.
So now, as a second step we have to study our own personality, present day personality. That means, apart from the material body, study our emotions and our thoughts, and what the present personality can produce, can express, study. That means study what we call elementals. The Absolute Beingness meditates in the Eternal Now, in the world of Causes and Laws, and creates in himself, worlds, universes, phenomenon of life, everywhere. Galaxies, solar systems, so many things.
What the Father is doing, the Son can do, says Christ. Because the Absolute Beingness and the Logos are the Macrocosm. And each one of us is what you call the ‘microcosm’. How will we investigate and find out that we are gods? Eternal beings.
45’00”
Unless we do what the Absolute Beingness is doing. What the Absolute Beingness is doing? Using the MIND to project worlds. What we are supposed to do? What we are doing now, subconsciously. We use the MIND and we project what we call Elementals not for good. What we should do… learn what is the supersubstance of MIND, how we are using it, how we as human Egos reflecting the idea of man can make forms. We must get how the Holy Archangels, but the course of time by meditation in the Eternal Now are projecting forms. We are projecting forms. The Elementals. What we call the emotional thought and the thought emotional forms, all around. Is it necessary to do that? Definitely! It’s necessary because through these elementals is built our present day personality. You can never have a building unless you have bricks! In these bricks building you are say hell or paradise, let me call it like that.
Or the place you are living in, are your elementals. So the quality of a present day personality is just the quality of the elementals.
[2nd side of tape]
So, the quality of a present day personality is just the quality of all those elementals composing it. And in a lesson we said that every desire, every wish, every emotion, and every thought - whether we know it or not - is creating an elemental. Christ speaks about these elementals. When the elementals are what we call emotional thought forms, he’s telling them “spirits mute and meaningless”. And he describes how they behave. It says, in the Bible, “when that spirit - evil spirit - is projected by a man, it loiters in places waterless - Christ had meaning in that - and then it returns back to its home, carrying with it seven spirits similar to it. What does it mean “seven spirits similar to it”?
Where did [] be, carrying it, but it enters through the seven gates. The seven what we call centers of energy. The Hindus call the ‘chakras’. Enters through genitals, solar plexus, through the liver, through the spleen, through the heart, through the thyroid, in a certain way.
So it carries with it another elemental, which enters through the seven gates, and the material body through the etheric double. It says
50’00”
things are now coming to that man worse than before. So, one [] notice, learn the nature of all those elementals he’s projecting. And now start doing it consciously and not subconsciously or unconsciously. Whether he is doing it consciously or subconsciously, he is under their influence. I had a man who said ‘after all it is what I am projecting, they are mine, I can do anything I like with them… nothing more silly. No! They are doing what they like, on him. By enslaving him. And when these elementals returning are a legion, what happens? They find out in the pattern, made a man, fell down on the ground, behaving in a very awkward way, dragging of him even going to the fire we read all that thing. And they presented him to the disciples of Christ, and they couldn’t do much about it. Christ came, of course, he rebuked them. It’s found in the Bible, New Testament. And he asked that group of evil spirits, “what’s your name?”. Said, “Legion”. They knew him, which means that these elementals are intelligent. And clever, and cunning.
How much they are clever, or cunning, or intelligent, according to the intelligence of the man projecting them. So don’t think that they are some things harmless, because they would have, what I would say, the dispositions of their creator. The disposition in attacking the fellow he doesn’t like, and return to attack him. He is punishing himself by creating these elementals, because blessings and curses are some English people take… come home to.
So, they can influence environment, people vibrating to the same rate of vibrations as these elementals and come back to influence whom? Definitely the one who really vibrates according to their vibrations. So other people can resist this influence. He can resist it? No, since he vibrates like that. So the one who is responsible for their creation is the one to suffer. Definitely suffer.
Everyone has to pay for the debts he has contracted. And what about karma? Can’t we shorten the karma of others? That means being able disenergize and annihilate the influence of those elementals? Of those, things that are punishing? I said in a lesson, ‘no. no one can shorten the real bargain of the other.’ His or her karma. But I said, ‘you should shoulder the burdens of others’. We said that. Which burden?
Again I say nobody can shorten the
55’00”
karma of other, but he can shorten the surplus. Which is the surplus? When one learns his lesson, then you can take part of his karma away. But nobody can take karma away if he has not learned his lesson. [] so it’s of course desirable, for one who is stronger. Shoulder the burdens of the weaker, says Christ, when he sees that he has learned his lesson, to take part of his burden. That’s I would say, something that everyone must do, and can do. So, have this in mind.
No one can shoulder the burden of others. The Hindus say that - they are telling the truth - but they should continue on and say “but one can shorten what remains after that man or woman has learned his or her lesson”. And that’s kindness, to relieve them of that sufferings.
So, there is something that the psychotherapists are afraid. They are coming to me sometime and saying, ‘Daskale’. “Yes of course.” “I want to become a psychotherapist, but do I have to shoulder the illness of the fellows I am curing?”
First of all, no one can cure anybody else. He can be the agent of the Holy Spirit. And for the burden of others, but remains after the lesson, the 9/10s are shortened by the Logos Himself. What the Catholics say, and what the Orthodox say, “Agnus Dei etoli peccata mundi”. And what you will have it []. So why don’t you, if you are strong enough just to take that burden. Yes, we will take the burden of those we love, some say. Yes, that’s good. It’s much better if you take the burden and relieve those who do not love you, because they need you more. Of course that causes most human beings to say ‘why should I?’ Here is where we catch that egoism and say ‘you keep silent. I caught you.”
Why should I take the part even of those who hate us? Because, after what we call [] we find out that They are We. So have that in mind. And I tell you something now. If our behavior there is such as to love those loving us []… if our behavior is to hate those who hate us - we make things worse. It’s very very bad. If our behavior is to serve and love those who hate us, this is Divine. Then you can call yourselves ‘sons of God’.
Not before then. So it sounds stupid to love those hating us, but Christ
said ‘Love your enemies’. Enemies because they behave in that way to show themselves that you are enemies, because you don’t in reality have any enemies
60’00”
because you love all. So have this in your mind. To love those who love us is human. To hate those hating us, again is human. But to hate those who are loving us is devilish. And love those who are hating us - it’s Divine. Have that in your mind.
Now, suppose we love those who hate us. They are casting that towards us, elementals we call evil. First of all, we have a shield by our love, and we are not affected by these elementals. And we said these elementals will strike on that shield and return to them. If we love those who are sending us such elementals, what we do now? When they strike on our shield, we get that elemental and disenergize it. Why should it return to him, to make things worse in him? How to do it? No need to know how to do it. Love, and love is doing everything, whether you know it, or you don’t know it. Yes but, ‘I love those people who do not like me at all. They are against me, attacking me. Is it not silly to continue loving them? No. Because by loving them continually, you’ll change everything. You can never have a fire here, and near it, a cold iron. Sometimes you touch the iron into the wood, if its not burning. So our love can change people. Have this in mind.
So it is worth loving those who are against us, besides, those who have been initiated in our circles, they have given themselves an obligation to themselves to love and serve my fellow man, no matter which is their behavior towards us. [] we cannot reflect one day from the mirror of our heart, life, and the other moment, darkness, hatred. A mirror reflects, always, light, love. What are the Infinite Beingness and Logos are doing? We must follow them. The Logos, in Christ, in Joshua, is asking from anybody love? No. The Holy Spirit is asking from anybody love? To give it love? No. If we love God, is he in need of our love? For loving God, we are benefited, in touch with the Infinite Beingness. So even so, we are to be benefitted, and not the Infinite Beingness. In loving Christ, or in loving the Holy Spirit, we do not offer to them anything which is not theirs already.
So, who is benefitted, always by loving? Ourselves. So, loving God, we are
benefitted. God, I think would be benefitted if he would be
65’00”
ugly. If people would not love him, he would not shine his Son of light in the face of those denied him and be Godless.
Suppose there is a fellow here. He denies the existence of God. And other one, a very pure and God-loving man. You take them from the heart. Take them out. You’ll see that the light of the sun will shine in the face of one. Why is not God depriving from the face of the Godless one the light of his Son? So if God is doing it why should we not do it? Why right we have that that Son of Love which is our Heart in the Absolute Beingness and the Logos is to shine through our hearts. What I do have, to shut that light out from the face of somebody we call our enemy, or he calls himself, our enemy? We should imitate God. I know this is rather difficult for some of you to accept that, for the time being. But by the course of time, you’ll accept it, after finding out that you benefitted is not the fellow but you yourself by loving, because you first of all will feel the pleasure of that light emanating from your heart. Then see it on the face of the others. So, what we do by that, either unconsciously, or consciously we do it consciously, disenergizing the evil elementals projected by that man, either towards us or toward other beings. So if you help that man, you help the whole society. The whole community.
So what’s our duty to do? Already those elementals of hatred have created all over the planet and in many, many, many places, wars. Killing, stealing, violence. Somebody will say ‘I’m not responsible for that.. those responsible…”. I say, ‘no! Everybody is responsible!’ Have that in mind. Every one human being is responsible for any thing taking place on the planet. Why? We can send good elementals to disenergize evil elementals. Why we haven’t done it? But really, can we disenergize evil elementals? Of course we can. See the situation in Lebanon. Details… I’ll not mention names, because we have here Americans who wouldn’t like it. Created all that fighting and killing in Lebanon, exciting the Muslims against the Christians. Killing and killing and hating. In Lebanon, very near Cyprus. Muslims and Christians are on the island also. So the same circumstances are there. Why are they not, this fighting? Insiders. Because the inner and innermost circles are daily working sending love covering love covering the whole Cyprus Island with love.
70’00”
And how? Loving you see, really loving the Turks. But there are very few. Never mind, they can influence. And so we are not allowing bloodshed in Cyprus. That is just an example. Muslims exist, Christians exist. The other day, we have planned a meeting of 150 muslims pupils of circles at a school a least a [] with 150 Christian Greek speaking Cypriots. I have implanted in them that all of you are Cypriots. Develop in you the consciousness of being Cypriots. Well, Americans when they are with their comrades, English when they are with their comrades, and go their way disappointed. Why? When the Turkish speaking Cypriots - I won’t call them Turks - and the Greek speaking Cypriots - I don’t call them Greeks - when they met, the rushed and embraced each other and said ‘brother!’ They were kissing each other. Yes, one day, believe me the whole [] will be over in Cyprus. I wish we could do the same thing in Lebanon. Yet, not very far away there, what I call ‘the influence’ is greater than the power we are sending, because we have mostly Muslim in Lebanon so that these things will not be as bad a they are.
So, what can we do? All the time creating constructive elementals of love towards everyone. Sending them, and they will work. Shall we strengthen them every while? No need. The elementals of love you are sending are provided with energy from the source of Love. While, the elementals, the evil elementals people send tend to be disenergized in the course of time. The elementals of love… because everything is in love! Is in God. Is by themselves re-energized.
So it’s worth sending such creative elementals around us. Which elementals are the more powerful? Those good elementals we send to those we love or those elementals we send to those who believe they are our enemies and are fighting us? Believe me these elementals are getting more the blessing of the Infinite Beingness, Life and Love. No one can annihilate or disenergize any elementals of love you send to a fellow who thinks he’s hating you - you’ll hate him - of course because you’ll not be able to send such an elemental, so have in your mind that we are living in an atmosphere psychical and mental atmosphere of love, and believe we are behaving in a different way while swimming against the current. It’s difficult to swim against the current. Paul found it out, when he was fighting the Christians, and even being present at the stoning of St. Stefano, at the
end. Because he was [] to karma
75’00”
to work for Christianity. Who selected him? His work through the ages. And being misled a few times of the variousness I guess in Christians, love, all Christ’s. Seen all that. Interfere. What is he saying? Of course when he felt the light of the Christ, he became light. But he heard the voice “It’s hard for you to knock your feet on nails, - how do you call it? - on nails. That’ what he heard. Then after some days, he found again his reason, he became health that day, seeing again. So read in the Acts of the Apostles, this person.
So, going against love, you are going against the current. This is not easy as some people think. It is more hard than going with the current of love. So it’s much easier to love than hate. No researcher after truth, whether Christian, Muslim, Orthodox, Catholic, Maronite, Armenian, that’s immaterial. No one can be called not only Christian, because Muslims are also in our groups, no one can call himself human, hating a human being.
No one can claims that he loves God, fighting God in another human being. Fighting Christ, especially applied to the Christians.
Where is Christ now? Christ will be there is not a mythical person who live before 2000 years walking on the streets of Jerusalem. What is Christ now? Christ exists now. Christ IS and exists. Is in the Absolute Beingness, and exists. Exists as what? What the beloved apostle said, from the very first verses of his gospel, Johannan [] fearing that Christianity will be misled, just put it down. The nature of Christ. Christ means ‘the anointed one’ of the Logos. He speaks about the Logos. He speaks ‘in the authority, in principio, is the Logos’. And the Logos is in God, and God is the Logos, completing the circle without any special misunderstanding.
He says, “Christ is the light lighting every human being coming to the world.” Which means that each human being expressing self consciousness is through the agency we call the Logos. So, if a man hates another man, he cannot love Christ, or love the Logos or love life. Because the Absolute Beingness is truth, life and love. And so it is the reflection of the Absolute Beingness through the Logos. And if we’re supposed to reflect the Logos, from our hearts, we should know how to love.
And believe me that to love is the most difficult thing to exercise. Because
80’00”
many people make a great mistake thinking they are loving when in reality they don’t love, they satisfy their egoisms. So, by what we call Introspection, self-analysis, we find ourselves really in what position we are as regards to the truth, life and love. So. A researcher after the truth will have first of all love as his own nature. To express love as his own nature. Because [] love is our nature, as Ego Spirit Self-consciousnesses. Why do we close our selves with an inner self and we have our attention only on a time and space minor existence who is called he or she? That’s also suffering and who is suffering because the present day personality. So the first thing you have to do is analyze our present day personality. Who is analyzing our present day personality? Analyzing the present day personality itself of the Soul Ego Superconsciousness? Unless it was the Self Ego Superconsciousness studying and analyzing, that will be influence that is not allowed in the love of God.
So the Present day personality itself has to see and study the behavior of itself, and then soon, the present day personality starts to do that then the Ego Soul personality will come to enlighten. But not before. You tell me is the Soul Ego Superconsciousness is not interfering? Sometimes when the present day personality is over doing it in evil. [] the Divine nature of her inner self and then we have what we call ’stings of conscience’. It’s only that truth that our inner self is the Christian. And so to be enlightened, as a present day personality, we have to become a crystal mirror to reflect the light of our inner self, our self superconsciousness, which is love, to God, and to Human beings.
Now, in tomorrow’s lesson, we speak more about the elementals, how to study them, to know them, and disenergize them when they have to be disenergized. Especially when these elementals are not constructing constructive - I don’t call them evil - call them not constructive.
Your questions.
Q: Researchers…. [ inaudible ]
Daskalos: Yes I knew that with your thought you are just working all the time, I know that. [ inaudible ] Why we should have enemies? [ ] What does it mean enemies? Can a human being, expressing the self consciousness which means Christ in him be your enemy? That brother should take him, and not love him?
85’00”
Now, maybe he’s under the illusion himself, of the world of separateness, and petty interests in life make him be against you. He is in more need of enlightenment than yourself. He is more in need of somebody to help him. Like yourself. So do you think that by not loving him you help him? Or you push him more in his darkness. Not only that, you get his darkness in yourself. Why you should just make death in your heart with hatred? For what? For his behavior? Which behavior? But all those are illusions.
So, in introspection we are doing, we must just analyze and see the value of certain things we over-estimate. Because a researcher after truth will not overestimate anything or underestimate anything. So we see that sometimes we are, not overestimating, over considering I might say, this one does not… it is not desirable to befriend him. But what more words we have in English? So you should not over calculate the seriousness of something. Of just underestimating the seriousness of something. People usually do it, what is not in accordance with their desires and their egoism. What do they do, seeing that action done by the others they call their enemies as something very very important and serious. And in their doing to the others ‘oh, it’s nothing’. So that’s why I say Introspection every night, studying the day, our behavior, not good to mention, just mentioning to ourselves with these, rubber evaluations and the others with an iron mention, so call it the same way. We must have []. That’s what Christ said “Do unto others what you would like the others to do unto you.” So why would we have enemies.
Yes, in life we are living in the world of separateness, there will be clash of interests but who are interests, in reality? [] This clash of interests, in material things? Or in nothing, meaning wounding our egoism. Though sometimes, it’s really nothing what we consider as very serious to have enemies and attack them… he said that, why he said that for me… and I said, ‘why?’ we must analyze ourselves, and believe me, those calling themselves your enemies, maybe they are your best friends.
You have done that, why? Because maybe you are doing something you don’t notice it and they have noticed it. And by saying that, he started attacking them, insulting them, “why you said that?” Keep silent and [] I say, “why did they say that?” Are they right or wrong? Then start seeing in yourself. Then you say, ‘oh no, what they said is just stupid or call it what you like, malicious or neglect…” But sometimes you’ll see that maybe they are right! They have seen that, yes, it’s easier just to criticize the other… we have the same man, it’s easier to criticize the other. [] get your opportunity and say “but you’re right.”
90’00”
‘Let me see… maybe they are right.’ Believe me, in my youth, some who called themselves my enemies have benefitted me, improved myself better, and don’t encourage those who come to you with compliments. Don’t try to fish complements from people. Having said that, accept their love, but where you hear them just compliment you, put your hand to their mouth and say ‘please, silence.’ Because they might be your worst enemies. [] Some of our friends in reality are not, some of the so-called enemies may be our friends, without knowing it or without wanting it. So don’t have enemies. You don’t need them, and they don’t need you to hate them. You make things worse. And just research when it’s just whom… learn creating constructive elementals. And believe me, all what we call evil elementals or destructive elementals are by the persuasion of one’s egoism. And I insist, we must find out this egoism. And kill it, so we can what we call [] in place of egoism.
Yes. Louder please.
Q: Yes, you said love is enough to dissolve the evil elementals, but what if there are certain professional black magicians who throw evil intention on people. Is love enough to dissolve those elementals? Or should one try to send those elementals back to the sender?
Daskalos: Ah! If somebody is throwing to you a stone, and you catch it… skillful to catch it. Does it mean that you break his head? No. Throw it down. So. When you find an elemental coming to you, by somebody, try to understand, what is the nature of that elemental? Why that elemental was projected? Which means, see the reason! Maybe, having the same
profession, that elemental came to you out of jealousy, out of his own interests, many other causes. Get the opportunity to study the nature of that elemental. And in doing so you study the condition, in the psychical body, of this fellow who has sent it to you. Send him love. Go shake his hand. Explain to him, and cooperate with him. Why not? Instead of attacking and be attacked by him, instead of giving a blow, give him the hand of cooperation. Why? Yes. So we should just learn the nature of the elementals, when they are [] not to call them malicious, you will learn the way to disenergize them. Kill them? No one had ever killed an elemental. The first elemental created by the caveman. What it is, energized, and disenergized. Again, energized and disenergized. Disenergized means entering…
(end of recording)