1990.06.18 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00'00 [Opening Prayer]
Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven, give us this day, daily our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever.
God, life, love, and mercy, expressing yourself in yourself in Total Wisdom and Almightiness, clean our minds to understand your truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen.
I welcome the newcomers. Many of you are already running psychotherapistic centers in your countries. This lesson today is a most
important for every - every human being whether he’s a psychotherapistic or a Researcher after the Truth. Seeing patients you are bringing to me, from all your countries. I see always in all of the illnesses the same causes. 90% of all the illnesses have the same causes. They are psychosomatic. The other 20%, we shall study them later.
Now, some would say “what about germs, microbes, fungi, and all that, causing illnesses?” Fungi, and microbes and germs are all around us and in us and in every one of us. But most are immune to them because their system is good to resist. And all these illnesses are presenting themselves when the system doesn’t have enough energy or vitality in it. So again, the causes are the same. We give ground, fertile ground to micros, germs - the others - to develop illnesses in us.
Now, what are these causes? Giving all kinds of illnesses all around us curable or non-curable. I say the bad way of living. We spoke in previous lessons about the elementals and our subconsciousness. For the new comers I will repeat again a few words about the elementals.
All thoughts, emotions, conceptions, are creating a so-called elemental in our subconsciousness. Creating. What does it mean “creating”? Either from the very beginning or revitalizing or re-energizing already existing elements in what we call a kind of group elementals, all around us in nature in the so-called psychical atmosphere, in the psychical world,
5’00”
are those group elementals - thousands, thousands of elementals composing a group of certain kind elementals, the same way thousands of blood cells are composing the body of a human being. Which are these, group elementals all around us in that ocean - psychical ocean - in which we are living in. I’ll mention some of these group elementals: theft, aggression, the group elementals of adultery, sex, gambling, smoking, and all other group elementals which are in human beings as weaknesses. And the worst of all is malice, enmity, hatred. Even complaining. And yet, as bad an elemental which is the cause of most of the illnesses, is in non-satisfaction in life. Which is that non-satisfaction in life?
Infinite Beingness so we call God the Father is giving everything. For these things, we never thank him. And he’s not in need of our thanks,
believe me. But if we thank him, it’s to our benefit. So, I said in the invocation, before starting the lesson, God - Life. God is Life. Don’t try to find God - imaginary God - either having a human form or any other form. God is life. And in life, we have all the other phenomena of life around us. The vegetable kingdom. The animal kingdom. In the seas, in the oceans, the air, on the planet, yet we have many many other phenomena of life, in other worlds of other dimensions, the so-called psychical worlds. The noetical worlds. There we have the phenomena of life enjoying life. These are the nature spirits, other spirits. They have a form. They are living. They are expressing a separate self consciousness, from the Absolute Self-consciousness.
Only the human beings are living in an unsatisfactory way - not enjoying life, their life as human beings - never understanding what is life as a phenomenon. How they understand that they are life? How they’ll reach the self-realization sees that cannot understand the phenomena of life which is their present day personality. So, as a present day personality, each human being, though enjoying everything which the Absolute Total Wisdom and Almightiness have given, are ungrateful to this Absolute Beingness. First of all, the Absolute Beingness is giving, to the creature which is a human being, life. Its own life. Makes a living form. This a great gift. The means for life, in abundance - in great abundance.
10’00”
Mind. Everyone, intelligent or non-intelligent, is free to use the Mind. That means, to get from the super-substance of the Mind, the Mind - the super substance - and form it into what we call ‘mental items’. Elementals. Or this elemental.
So, the Mind is common to all living beings, and the human, but especially the human are using it self-consciously. All the other beings, though expressing the total wisdom, it is the expression of the Archangels behind them. Flowers, trees, animals. But the human being - usually we call him ‘the microcosmos’, which is similar to the macrocosmos, a human being is most privileged above the Archangels. And instead of feeling the joy of it, and instead of estimating properly this gift, he is misusing that gift we call life in a material and in other bodies.
I repeat, a human being in his material body, the psychical body, his
noetical, mental body and so on, is a microcosmos. The same as the macrocosmos as God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost, and the universes composing it, starting a man, even as a present day personality, we know the universes.
So what is the aim of our circles for the Research of Truth, which is mostly misunderstood? Study that microcosm which is ourself and then we know what’s the macrocosm. By studying the microcosm, we know what’s the macrocosm. Which means studying the material body, knowing the material body, how it works. We know how the material plane and the material world is covered, as we have in our body, blood cells, everything, so is the macrocosm, materially. Studying under the microscope a drop of blood, you see the sky. Studying the work in the blood, motions, movement, vibrations so you know what is taking place in our material universe. In the solar system, everywhere.
So a human being is privileged to use the Mind now, consciously, and self-consciously, when all the other phenomena of life are using the Mind instinctively or subconsciously. That’s why we are privileged as human beings. And how do we live? The maturity of the human beings as what you call it a present day personality, most stupidly. We never realize and thank for what we get what is given to us every day - our daily bread. And our daily bread is not a bread you cut with a knife on the table. Our daily bread is the Mind and the super substance is substance as Etheric Vitality by which we are living. We breathe, and live, we feel the heat of the sun, we feel that energy coming from the sun to nourish
15’00”
our material bodies. We can feel that energy which comes from the universe, which invigorates our what you call psychical body. With another kind of breathing. And we can enjoy the Mind, consciously, in right thinking, and then later, realizing what we are and who we are, reaching what you call self-consciousness, something the Archangels are not enjoying. A human being is most privileged in the creations.
Is a human being higher than the orders of the Archangels? I’m telling you yes, most privileged. Because all the orders of the Archangels are serving the human being. All the orders of the Archangels - the Michaels, the Archangels of fire and light and motion - the Archangels we call Raphaels,
of matter and it’s etheric vitality all around us - the Archangels we call Gabriels, billions of them, as you have billions of human beings, we have billions in each order of the Archangels. And for each human body, psychical body, and noetical body, a Michael. A Gabriel. A Raphael. A Uriel. Many cherubs and [caels?] are working now in your material body, now, this moment - are working to build your material body - the microcosmos - for you to live, you as a present day personality.
So, each moment, these Archangels, expressing the Total Wisdom of the Infinite Beingness and the Almightiness, through what we call circles of possibility, and probabilities, they are building, repairing damages.
What serves that? And who is thanking for all that? If you get a wound on your leg, on your hand, some days and some nights, you are living normally and sleeping at night, and in some days that wound is cured - is closed. Whether you are awakened as a conscious being, or sleeping at night in deep sleep, resembling what I call annihilation, the Holy Archangels in your body are working for that wound to be cured, to recover. Until the time one passes over, they are working in your bodies. The material body, the psychical body, and the noetical body. What a great honor is that? That you as a present day personality, a man or a woman, what a great honor is that? That we live, in these bodies, and make bad use of it? Very very bad use of it. In sex, yes, even in sex. The most Holy work in making a man, co-creator with God, is misused and it is a shame. Why? We are abusing and making bad use nearly of everything in life. Which means, we don’t know what’s life, or God. Then, all the phenomena of illnesses are coming to the material body.
Happily, only to the material body. No illness can touch the etheric double of the material body, and no illness can touch what we call
20’00”
the psychical body. And the noetical body. So all the bad effect of a not-natural way of living, is affecting only the material body. I had the other day a fellow from Germany, who’s foot was amputated just up. He came, taught me, “Sir, some consider I’m a fool, because really I feel pain in the toes and the leg of the amputated side.” I said, “Where it is? “It’s twenty years and now cut.” “How, you say that you feel pain?” “The place, of the foot where are the toes.” “Said, of course we do. Because
they amputated the material foot. Your etheric double of your material body is there. And of course, the esthetic ether goes until there, and you feel the pain. And that is true.”
Not only this German said this experience, but many Cypriots, Greeks, from other parts of the world, are just saying the same thing. And amputated hand, and then they feel pain in the tip of their fingers. Which means, yes, everything evil is on the material body only. Not even in the etheric double of the material body, which as I said to previous lesson is the mode in which and by which the material body is built up. So even your etheric double of your material body is healthy. Why the material body is not then healthy? Because all the time we burn out our etheric vitality. The energy. So, when you burn this energy, the material body suffers. And this energy, comes from what you call the etheric double of our material body.
You’re breathing. What does it mean ‘you are breathing?’ What do we get? Can you see the air you’re breathing? Can you understand that in the breath of yours, not visible, is the etheric vitality, is the Mind in which you are. But you are breathing. If somebody will hold your mouth and your nose, for how long you’ll be able to live? Is the air you are breathing life?
Of course, science says now, says oxygen, so many many things, these are elements. The most low vibrations of the Mind. Yet, when you are breathing, you are loaded with what I call etheric vitality through your etheric double. Is the etheric double which makes the material body live and become a channel for you to express yourself. Because the material body is a matter, nothing more than that. After a fellow passes over, the material body is exactly as it was before a few minutes. But some things away - not visible. You call that material body dead. What does it mean? That means the etheric double is getting out of the material body. I said the etheric double is the mold in which molecule by molecule, atom by atom, organ with organ, is kept in life,
25’00”
and nourished.
Now, Researcher after the Truth, by concentration, meditation, observation,
in the course of years, of course, and with observation, can know what is taking place in his material body. He’ll be just admiring etheric vitality is loading every blood cell. Giving what we call life in each cell, each molecule, in each organ of the body. This is the same blood, the same etheric vitality, yet that etheric vitality and the blood is creating organs, glands, the lungs, the heart, the liver, the spleen, [bongada?], the brains in the skull.
Now if you put this question to an orthodox scientist now, “hows it possible that all these kinds, now, of material are creating in that part and in that part of the body?” This Total Wisdom so that you, living in a material body as a present day personality will enjoy the phenomenon of life you are now. What is the liquids of the eyes? Which make you see? What are the substance by which the brains so that you’ll express yourself in the known way that you express yourself? What is that substance? That feeds the liver? The spleen? Or the other organs? What is that power which creates in a man the spermatozoa? Did a woman, all these necessary conditions to prolong with a man life? Who is sitting just to think about all these things in life?
Life - God. It’s not far away, God, from us. Its in us and within us. It’s life. Our life now in time and space our life as a present day personality. Who is just making a good estimation about the value of this kind of life? Those who don’t do it, definitely they lack their material bodies the vitality by their bad way of living.
Now, what is that, that really? Sickness? And the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels in working, so that the material body will be in good health. I say, the not right way of living of the present day personality. The present day personality of a man or a woman, feeling dissatisfaction of life, not valuing what he or she gets from God, but thinking that something’s still lacking. Leaving behind everything, and thinking that an imaginary, not a real thing is lacking from the life, complains against life. Conceive what? The disturbances in the material body.
I had the other day,
30’00”
a young lady, she came to me. With a why. The devil is coming usually
with a why. Such a very very beautiful girl. Healthy, strong. She had, as she said, a love affair, and of course, that man got tired, had reasons from circumstances, he left her. Why? And that why broke her nervous system completely. She came to me, or rather, they brought her to me going the way of schizophrenia. Now this a lesson for the psychotherapists. ‘Cause it’s not only psychotherapy to feel that your hand is rotted with etheric vitality and make passes from the body and all that.
You may have certain results and effects, but that’s not satisfactory. A psychotherapist must know to make what I call the real psychoanalysis. To teach the patient, man or a woman, the right way. This why he left me, what was his complaint against me, and all that, nearly created a very bad situation. You have taken this beautiful girl, two or three times to the psychiatric clinics, injecting, giving strong medicines… I object to all that. That’s stupid. They make things worse. What this girl needed… to understand the situation. She goes with me for some time, using our own method and not the method in parapsychology and all that, because many professors of parapsychology psychology are coming here to learn the new way.
What’s it the new way? Explain that. Here. What is life? That she was underestimating the value of life. Besides, what did she really lost? Nothing. Though she is right, to be with her, or in a friendly way, or separate. Why should she [sees?]. That fellow is not just a toy or something I bought it and I put it here or there. And I get her with this ‘why?’ You have as I suppose psychotherapists, to explain this why. Why? Because both of you are fools. Which means, when you started by that common attraction we call it sex, he saw that you are a beautiful girl and he loved you, he thought he loved you. And you saw he was a very handsome man and you loved him you said, yes, I have loved him, I said, it’s your mistake you didn’t. You thought you loved him. So no sir, really, I … I loved him. Are you sure? Let us see if you have loved him or if he loved you. It was something attracting both of you that did that. But both of you, I said, were stupid. Because you thought that the other one is a toy you can buy and put it anywhere you like, even in your pocket. Did you treat him as a human being? With whom you had to come to understanding? Sir yes.
35’00”
How? ‘Cause I got from her mind the whole thing. When he was talking even to his sister, you were jealous! Yes, that’s true because I loved him. Because you loved him you are getting jealous if he brought a little present to his sister! You didn’t love him, you wanted to dominate over him! And what did he do? The same thing he did. He thought that you were his property. Don’t talk to that fellow. Why you went out without asking me? Why you are putting the [thirs-terson?] you it’s just because both of you were fools - foolish.
I’m asking you, is this not happening in every country of the world where, and what is it, the parents are not teaching their children what is life? What’s their duty in life? What is making a relationship with the other sex? What they should get and what they should accept - expect getting?
Now, in Germany, and in Switzerland, and in France, in Cyprus and in Greece, in every 10 marriages, is they end into 8 at least divorces. Why? Having children, unhappy, creating psychical wounds. And, of course, if you ask a psychotherapist now, will hear both, they will tell that both are right and the other is wrong! And they believe it, because what they do, they never judge their behavior to the other, but the behavior of the other to them. Then who is right? Both are wrong. It’s because both do not know what is life. How to respect life, and expect the other partner - life. Which leads where? Nervophrenia, Schizophrenia, constipation, consumption, cancer…. I’m telling you that 90% of all the illnesses are psychosomatic. Yes, but now what’s psychosomatic? Another expression which is not correct. Because psychosomatic means “soul” “material”. Matter, the body. The soul is never becoming ill. What is wrong is in the present day personality of a man or a woman. Now we must find the causes. Which are the causes creating all these illnesses and all this trouble?
Again, for the new comers who didn’t hear previous lessons, I’m speaking about elementals. They say that every thought, every emotion, every conception, without even thinking or need all like that is creating an elemental. And the elemental, is not visible to the eyes, yet a most powerful form, because every elemental has a form. It’s most powerful. And the present day personality of a man or a woman, or its subconsciousness, their subconsciousness, is the sum total of these elementals. Good, or bad. Mixed up. Being mixed up, these two kinds
of elementals, fighting each other, they create confusion in the man. Or in the woman. Great confusion.
Yet who is responsible for the revitalization of these elementals, making these elementals part of
40’00”
their present day personality or part of their subconsciousness? They. And then they complain. They revitalize them or create them. Then when they are under their burden, being tortured by them, they complain. So a psychotherapist must explain to every patient coming to them, trying to make the psychoanalysis, explain what’s Life, what they should expect from Life, how to respect Life, how living in their own way, as a present day personality, a man or a woman, how they made bad use of the mind in creating these elementals. Which now are composing their personality.
And how to disenergize undesirable elementals, and re-energize good elementals in their place. Put it another way. How to drive away negative thinking and create positive thinking.
Now, you know with our method, our system how many we have taken away from the mental hospitals, who are today good husbands, good men, living in the society. Most of them were in the mental hospitals for six, eight months like that, being injured with those foolish medicines, to calm their nerves down. But that was not the way with the medicines to calm the nervous system down. But explaining to the present day personality, and try to make that present day personality cooperate for the cure [him?].
So, some of you who are running now psychotherapistic centers have that in your mind. Learn the right way of psychoanalysis, approaching the patients with love first of all, so that they will have confidence in you. Approach them as a brother, a sister, or a friend, not as a doctor. ‘Cause they will open their heart to you. Explain what’s life. What wrong they have done to their life. How they should see life. How they shall understand the real meaning of life. And believe me, we have served many who were willing to commit suicide, which is the worst crime. Nobody has the right to do that. ‘Cause it’s an insult against God-Life, and the work of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels working in your bodies. A Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, a Uriel, sacrifice their life in your bodies to
create a body for you. And your psychical and your noetical body. What do they owe you to do that? What is your duty? ‘Cause the creative work of a Michael, a Raphael, and a Gabriel is giving you the warm, red blood.
Raphael loads it with etheric vitality. Michael is loading it with heat. Temperature. Even is making the balance, keeping the temperature to so many degrees, so we’ll live. And Gabriel is giving you the liquids. So when you study the work of the Lords of the Elements - the Archangels - that you must respect life in a material body. Christ is calling
45’00”
your material body ‘The Temple of God’. And so it is. It is the Holy Spirit in it, working for you. And of the Holy Archangels, who are Gods.
Tell me, what am I? You? Every one of you, a man or a woman, as a spirit, self super consciousness you are god. Also. It is for the sake of that god they are working.
But you make the trinity as the Holy Father is doing the trinity. You express yourself as the Soul, which corresponds to the Logos, and your Soul is Logoic. And the shadow, or the reflection of yourself as the Spirit god Super conscious self-super consciousness, with the help of the Holy Spirit, of the Logos, and the Holy Archangels, create the material body in which you now life. Who are you, now? A present day personality, a time and space, [not being?] existence, because as a man or as a woman, living in a material body and the material and the other bodies are not immortal. They are changing every moment, every hour with what we call ‘growing up’. Find yourself as a Soul or a Spirit…
[tape side ends]
Yourself, as a Being, a Spirit Self superconsciousness. Because the Self as a Spirit, has the Self superconsciousness. Also I say Soul Self superconsciousness. You are timeless, eternal. Never born and never will be annihilated or die. Yet self superconsciousness, that self superconsciousness of yourself, with the Archangels - they have their own Archangelic Self superconsciousness - which is very very different to your Self Superconsciousness. This is one of the things that a mystic, or a Researcher after the Truth should study and know.
And by studying it, he comes in conscious contact with the Archangels. Becoming friends, that means, he’s developed what Christ says “Joy is to your Archangels in heavens, for each one returning…” Returning where? To reason. To the self-realization. That’s it.
So, we are a self-conscious being, even as a present day personality. Which means, even so, we are gods, because we express a self-consciousness. But now a self-consciousness as a man or as a woman, with the tendencies, weaknesses, thoughts, of a man or a woman. That means, we express now, a devilish self consciousness? An evil self-consciousness? And I had many times this questions, well, if I am supposed to express now, as a present-day personality, that I’ll not call it a devil-self-consciousness, or an evil self-consciousness, what is my inner self, my real self
50’00”
my I-ness, my Ego doing and not interfering? This is a good question. Why not interfering? Sometimes it does. And we have what you call the stings of consciousness. When the present day personality is over doing it, then the Soul, our real self, intervenes. And we have what we call the stings of consciousness. But even, during that [back?] it [me?] leaves freedom to the present day personality to gain it’s way home by the free will.
And you understand that, reading in the Bible, the Parable of the Prodigal Son. Which you must understand it. When the Prodigal Son wanted separate experiences from the Divine state, and asked his Father - it says here in the Bible - give me my property, my substance, and I’ll go away. I want to go away. Of course, the Father, the King, was not displeased. Said, ‘have it’, go, knowing that one day, he will come back. Because the Absolute Beingness knows everything. So the Prodigal Son when out, it says, and spent his property, which is the Mind, with prostitutes, with thieves, with criminals, wasting the property, until he became the guardian of the Swine.
What does it mean? Spending in a stupid way our super substance of the Mind, in [grating] in stead of constructing constructive thinking, thoughts, we want to satisfy a devil we call egoism. Constructing destructive now
elementals instead of constructive elementals. These elementals are the Swine. And he was fed, as a present day personality, a man or a woman, with the same stuff were fed. The lower Mind. As emotions, weaknesses, I said before, aggression, faults, call it whatever you like.
So, our Soul self consciousness is not interfering to the not right way the present day personality is living, leaving it to its destiny. Yes, I am building, am building, am building, to keep your material body and you, stupidly waste the etheric vitality and you cause illness in that body you are to suffer.
It is the present day personality which is suffering. The suffering of the material body. With the great mistake to think that the material body is itself, suffering until the moment that present day personality will realize that I am not the body. I am not my emotions, I am not my thoughts, all these are mine, yes, making very bad use what what I call mind, it isn’t myself. So, according to the Divine wisdom, the present day personality must find its way.
So what’s the Prodigal Son now? The Soul-Ego or the present day personality is the prodigal son. Both in one. Because, so that we’ll have as a present day personality an existence,
55’00”
we have a present day personality self consciousness. As Mary, or John, or George. Who is now going to be saved and what does it mean to be saved? Since one day, one will realize that he is not a man or a woman, but an Ego. Note he says “I am”. That’s Divine. Mary, or George, and maybe George is a thief, a drunkard, a smoker, an adulterer. And Mary may be a harlot, but that harlot has what we say “I am”. Which is Holy.
That’s “I am Mary” or “I am George or John”. Someday they will realize that they are not what they thought they were. And both will say “I am I”. Now what’s that “I” now? Is it Mary or George? Is that I now, the second I, with capital letters covering the whole universes, George and Mary, yes, and George and Mary. Because nothing is lost, but now purified. Clean. Holy. And Christ spoke about it and said, “The perishable - as a present day personality - will become imperishable.” “And the mortal will become immortal.” And of course, without seeing things for this point of view, it
sounds silly… how will the mortal will become immortal? And how the perishable will become imperishable? From this point of view, studying it, it’s true. Each one, as a man or as a woman, is already god, slumbering in the present day personality. As a Soul.
Now putting you the question. Do you have a soul? When I was giving my lecture to the universities, last summer, I had an audience of doctors of philosophy and doctors of divinity, asking me how do I reconcile these: science and religion. I said, this. Science is all the time changing, leaving behind what they think, they found new things.
And religion is doing the same, leaving behind fanaticism, and narrowmindedness, and developing, very soon, both will give [hands?], because both of them are working in different ways, they are Researchers after the Truth. You are thinking material plane, the other, in-worldly. So they have to meet one day. And they will understand it, that they are aiming at the same thing. When you understand ‘what’s life?’, either as scientists or they understand ‘what’s life?’, the Researchers, if they do it in both ways, that will be better. ‘Cause I am telling you now I have having scientists who are studying things from the other points of view, not only from the point of science. How do I reconcile that? I am a Doctor of Philosophy, and a Doctor of Divinity. They said, “How do you reconcile that?”
60’00”
Yes, they admitted that they should do the same thing. Leave behind what they will leave, and see what is the reason the others leave behind what they call fanaticism, and narrowminded deadness, and see what’s truth. So they will meet. Some day they will definitely meet. Because they’re on the same way. The distance between them will become smaller and smaller and smaller. Someday [pyre?] for certain will give hands to support each other. This time will come.
Which means, the Research after the Truth. It is the truth, Christ said, that will liberate us.
So, all narrow-mindedness, illusions, and fanaticism.
Now, how do we see people now, living? In every country, in your
countries. Cyprus and Greece. In Switzerland, in Germany. In France, in America. In England. Do you think that in one country, there is better way of life? Better sets of circumstances? Better circumstances? Maybe yes.
But all those people live there, do not undergo the same faults? Which are underestimating life, as a phenomena of life, as their own present day personality. Not valuing what God the Father gave us - Don’t all him God if you don’t like - we call him Absolute Beingness. We call him logos or expression, because the word ‘God’ sometimes is vexing to many, especially scientists. But if you don’t tell them God and tell them “Life, Love” they understand it.
When you told them, well, Total Wisdom and you proved that Total Wisdom all around, and you told them, to tell them the circle of possibilities and they see it, “yes, of course sir, we know that it exists, something we don’t understand yet…” But yet they are not ready to accept the word “God”. That doesn’t matter.
No matter how this Absolute Beingness you call it - that Absolute Beingness expression you call it - it is, and it exists. And anyone, with their right thinking, knowing the way how to use the Mind creatively, will be reached to this conclusion.
I had the fellow the other day, he was a scientist, and he told me, he said “[so-on-squa?] and we’ll believe.” He was a professor in a university in America, who came here just as you’re coming. “You will show me God, and I will believe it.” “Are you all right, professor?” [laughter]
“Do you see this thing?” “Yes I see it.” “Why you see it?” “Because I see it!” “Do you see also that?” “Yes of course I see that.” “Good.” “And that? And you know that’s a chair?” “What’s what with these childish things you are telling?” I said, “reply, and you’ll understand. What’s that?” “it’s just a [unint.]” “And that there?” “Oh, a fan turning” “Good” “And that was his - my friend” “Yes” “That’s your friend.” “So you see all these things around you. How do you see them?” “By the light” “What’s the light? Well, I tell you, [unint.] etheric vibrations to that rate, which strike on objects and reflect what they’re striking upon, leaving an image to your eyes.”
65’00”
“Yes” “this gives, I say a sensation to certain parts in your brain, and you said ‘I see that and that and that’” “So, which is the agent of your ’seeing’?” “Light” “So, we have light in this room” Said, “Yes.” “And now you know it’s light?” “Yes” “And you know that through the light, you see things” “Yes” “The sun is light, it would be very stupid to go out and gaze at the sun to understand what’s light” “It will burn your eyes” “Oh, how is it that you want me to show you God?” “You cannot see God. In the phenomena of life all around you - in flowers - in animals - in birds - everywhere - you cannot conceive God as phenomena of life. You can see them. The same way, you know what’s light by seeing things around you. Do you think that a handful of matter which is your material brain can see God? Life itself? As if you get out, just to gaze at the sun, it will burn your eyes. Don’t try too much, because you never succeed with a hand full of matter to understand what’s God.” “Do you know God”, he said. He’s very clever. “Of course I know God.” “Have you seen God?” “Definitely I’ve seen God.” “How is God?” “Love, Life.” “Oh.” “See you see it around you and you don’t understand what’s life.” “What’s love?” “Now I will tell you something. If you are eager, and thirsty of knowing more, seek for years. Succeed to come out of your material body and under the influences from your material body, try to come out by the second exosomatosis also from your emotional body, called the psychical body.” “What shall I be then.” “You.” “What do you mean you?” “You are not the material body and the psychical body. Outside of your bodies.” “Shall I be thinking?” [unint.] “In the world of thought, you will not be thinking. And you are thinking in the material plane with a material mass of brain.”
“So, if we are outside of our bodies, we will be self-conscious thinking entity.” “You are more at home.” “Oh. Do you mean that?” “No, I know that. I don’t mean it, I know that. When you come to that state, then you’ll have those eyes to gaze at the sun without burning them. And uh…” “With my eyes?” “No, you need different eyes now.” “Which with your heart. By at-one-ment, becoming one. Did you read the Bible?” “No.” “It’s very bad” “What’s the use of reading?” “Read it. Christ said ‘Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God.’ It is not with your eyes. And you’re material brains you’ll see God. It is with your heart.” “How?” “Do you know what’s love?” “Yes.” “No you don’t. Love is not only sex. Love is not only the satisfaction of your petty egoism by some
friends around you. Or just praising you, that means making you an idolater. Kneeling before an idol which is called your present day personality.”
Was looking at me. “Do you understand what I want to say?” “Yes, I understand but I’m afraid.” He’s a scientist. A professor in university. “Be afraid of what?” “Of losing my identity.” “Now, if you lose that identity of yours you say, so precious to you, you will gain your real self as a Soul. Reading the Bible, you said, ’those who love their soul are losing it, those
70’00”
who hate it will regain it’. So unless you see things from the real point of view, you never understand the sayings of Christ, the God-man.”
So, “but is it necessary to go so far to understand God?” “No. You see Him all around you as phenomena of life. Love life. Of phenomena. Love the nature. Love the human beings. Love all phenomena of life around you. And. What will happen? The whole nature will love you.” Then I had another question… “and the snakes sir?” “And the snakes. May times I found a snake, and I got them, and was keeping them, which the other fellow say ‘woff… it’s a poisonous viper!’ “ It doesn’t have hands to beat you or feet to kick you. And when you love it, it will love. Love it? How? I got sugar drops, put them in my mouth, making saliva and saying ‘come on love’, and in the time was taking saliva from my mouth. ‘It’s a viper!’ It’s nothing.
If you love nature, nature loves you. You can tame anything by loving it. And when I put the question to scientists and people ‘do you know what’s love?’ Said, ‘Of course we know what’s love.’ What’s love? Self satisfaction by a fellow just praising your egoism? You call it love. This is love by reflection. That’s why people are suffering today, men or women. Husband and wife. Brothers and sisters. Parents. Because they think they love, but it’s only by reflection. They love the other, because the other is paying attention to them, obeying them. Not trying to understand the others.
Now, when you are in a company, you go in a company ‘cause you carry with you your personal egoism. What will happen? In that company, that gathering will find people talking talking talking and each one wants to
impress the other about this or that and that especially in the political field. Even sometimes come to blows. You find that everywhere, and in your country, anywhere you go. Why. Because a man or a woman, they think they know everything. What the other knows is not worth knowing. And they have the egoism to try to force the others to see their views or accept what they believe and what they think.
All of them are thinking like that, then there is a clash, a quarrel, and many times you find beating, breaking chairs and all that. Everywhere. Now you find it in Europe. What a reasonable Researcher after the Truth should know. Now you go in that gallery. You hear people “I am sure.” You will feel that devil which is called egoism in you. ‘No, no, I know better. and I shall enter and speak and tell them.’ Stop it.
Tell him ‘no. Silence. Now I, not you, my personal egoism, want to study the situation, [civive?] with all the others, listen to them, see at what they have to say.”
Then again your egoism will come forward “what nonsense do they say? Now I will explain to them…” Calm down. Maybe they are speaking the truth. Or think it over.
75’00”
I would see other uses for. Study them. Find a solution. The beginning, when you go, because many of you have undergone this test - I get it from your minds - don’t do it another time when you go to a gathering, listen.
Don’t try to force your ideas on the others. Believe me, maybe they are thinking better than you are thinking, on that subject. Listen. What they say? Then going away, compare it with your views, but being honest with yourself. This is a right way of meditation, you can do every day. Because meditating, as somebody taught me, is not certain moments, sitting alone, and making these kinds of meditations and exercises, you must meditate every moment of your life, everywhere by reasoning. Living properly. Seeing the views of others. Comparing them with yours. And believe me, even a child can give you very very precious and valuable lessons. A child. Have that in your mind.
Things yet we didn’t think about them, maybe others thought them.
Something else. Enemies. What are enemies? Sometimes an enemy is better than a friend. A friend may come to you, and because he’s in need of you, just praising you and praising you and praising you. Just caressing your egoism. Nothing more dangerous and stupid. And an enemy may be will chase and find certain faults of yours. Instead of being annoyed, angry, attacking, cause he said that and that and that to you - think it over, maybe he’s right. Maybe he is not right. If he is not right, leave him alone. You are satisfied now. That, no, he is not right, he doesn’t see well. But maybe, he is right, seeing things you don’t see yourself. And you will just make corrections. And an enemy is a friend without knowing it sometimes. This is the real attitude in life. Knowing.
There was a fellow. A very wise, wise man. Knowing everything mathematics, progress of every universes. He had a servant, or an adopted son, say 10 or 12 years of age. He wanted just to light his pipe. Oh, he started shouting, shouting to the servant… “where is that thing?” Getting the charcoal, it was lost. If I had it, I’d get a little burning charcoal, put it in my pipe, and start smoking. Going up and down, up and down full of nerves and shouting, then the child taught him “Professor, what you want, really?” Said, “Where is that thing, how you call that?” Scratches it, gets a charcoal, “where did they place it? To get a little burning charcoal and put it [unint.]” “Is that thing that bothers you?” Said, “Yes, where is it?” He got a handful of ash, got a piece of wood, brought a little piece of charcoal, put it over the ash in his palm, went to him and said “clean your pipe… I put it in the pipe.”
The professor goes one day, “why did I not think of it myself?” And a boy of 12 gave him a lesson. For everything, there is a way of doing it. Just find
80’00”
the way of doing it. So, listen to the others. And judge. Judge means judge the action, judge what’s talking not the fellow. And believe me by listening, you will learn much. Much more than by trying to convince the others and give your ideas to the others. What is the real gain? Are not the clash, quarrels, and wars. This is the cause of all the wars - not understanding each other. You understand each other, there would be no wars.
So, we spoke about the elementals, as entities, living forms, not visible yet most powerful, dominating over us. Tomorrow we’ll study more of these elementals.
And these elementals, I’ll show the newcomers because you have given these lessons before, are composing our present day personalities, a man or a woman. Composing what we said, our subconsciousness. So, those who’ll start work as psychotherapists, in your centers making a psychoanalysis, must know the nature of the subconsciousness. When I said to a professor teaching psychology and parapsychology, “What is the subconsciousness, sir? You are mentioning also sometime, explain to me what you mean by subconsciousness. Or consciousness. Now using words without giving the right definitions or understanding what it is behind these words.”
When I taught him about elementals and how they work, how he will study them, face to face with these elementals and the nature of his subconsciousness he said, “Oh, I never thought of that.” Yes, we teach this method to the universities. Now he’s teaching this method to the universities, explaining what’s the subconsciousness. So if you want to be successful, with your patients, the psychotherapist. Psychotherapy, I insist to say it’s not knowing the existence of the etheric vitality in your hands, passing it over, and seeing just small phenomena.
Or even, if they are a psychotherapist and they have some of them who with their hand they can close a wound - I have some in our circle wounds which need 15 or 20 days to be cured - only with a touch, visualization, and thinking, can be closed. i have certain who is to that point. I was smiling I said, “What did you think you have achieved? If you wouldn’t do that, in 15 days that wound would not be there. What have you done? Just knowing the way, using your etheric vitality and just curing a wound which will be cured in just 15 days or 20 days.” Said, “Is that not something good?” Said, “No. I would prefer that you would heal a psychical wound, with what I call the real psychoanalysis. Not curing wounds on the material body, but wounds in the so-called present day personality of a man or a woman. So this is the serious and real work that should take place in your psychotherapistic centers. And he needs training, meditation, concentration and observation. Work for it, to do these things, and of course if you know also anatomy,
85’00”
that will be good, as regards curing the material body. What can you do? With etheric vitality, with visualization? And all these things you have to do. I have Doctors here. Is it possible Doctor to have a fellow with shorter leg, shorter full one from the other, from what we call poliomyelitis, be cured? The fellow walk. According to the orthodox science, and he go, before three days, how many cases you have seen with your own eyes?
[woman’s voice] I think four in one day.
Four in one day. Four persons in one day. What I want to say to those who are running psychotherapistic centers: Train yourself for something better and higher. Not only taking away headaches, or arthritis, or something like that, you can do much, but, to be able to do that, you must become master of your present day personality self. You must get rid completely of what I call egoism. You must make your heart to reflect love to all known or unknown. To a harlot or a saint. To a thief, a criminal, or an innocent man. When a fellow comes to you ill, he’s an ill person. Nothing more than that. So take out of your heart criticism. Close your eyes to gossip. Open your eyes to the truth. To cure.
So, those who will be running psychotherapistic centers they must definitely train themselves for that. Express love. Real love. Forget themselves that moment. And when you have that attitude, will be wondering in what, in curing people? In working miracles? Yes, that devil your egoism will present itself and say ‘yes you see what we have done, you have succeeded in doing that and that and that NO! I have done nothing myself, as a present day personality. What happened is the work which every moment is happening in every human body and in every psychical body by the work of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. I am only an instrument. Of their work. So you must know, as a psychotherapist, man or a woman, it’s not you who is doing the curing - the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels - and you should feel greatly satisfied being used by them as an instrument of their cure to the human beings.
Because I say, every moment their curing work is taking place in the body of every one of you and of every human being. Under this attitude you will face illnesses, and believe me, there is not illness that cannot be cured by
the will of God. Not your will.
So, when they’re asking us, I say - and you will say - ‘we promise nothing and we disclose nothing’ and you will do the same
90’00”
work for all, and see. You’ll put me the question “can you foresee, when they bring you a patient, if he is to be cured or not.” By instinct, yes. But the result is not mine. When I see difficult cases, I pray. What does it mean ‘pray’?
Just reciting a prayer in the Greek orthodox way, or the Catholic way, or the Protestant way, from books, this is not prayer. Pray means visualizing health and giving my love - His love - Absolute Beingness love. That’s a prayer, at least for me.
‘Course I don’t disregard prayers in church and prayers given in books - they are needed by certain people. But real prayer is not with lips, it’s from the heart. The real prayer is love.
Now, you must start thinking “What is love?” Is what we think is love, really love? Or not love. Those who will be here tomorrow, we’ll continue the lesson on what I say the subconsciousness, the consciousness, and how to face it. Again we’ll speak about the elementals, how we will be locking the elementals with vitality - the good group elementals - how to devitalize the existing elementals in our subconsciousness, and casting them to what I call the cosmic consciousness. No one can kill and elemental. Have that in your mind. But we can disenergize, or re-energize an elemental. So knowing the nature of the elementals, you know the nature of your present day personality, as consciousness and subconsciousness. And you will know, see what I am going to say now - knowing the nature of your elementals, you know the nature of your present day personality and your subconsciousness. Who? Who knows that? You. Now you find your real you, as a soul apart from the influences of the present day personality.
When I was asked when I was giving the lectures, they are looking at me the Doctors of Divinity, do we have a soul?
[93’40“end of tape]