1990.02.13 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rb/rhr
00’00”
Our Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us, and lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever.
God of Love, Light, and Mercy enlighten our minds to understand your Truths. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards our fellow man. Amen.
01”03”
Today, we will speak more about the so-called etheric double. The etheric double of our material form. Of course, everything we do is Mind and the etheric double is Mind. Why do we say etheric double? Is the etheric double not a separate body from our material body? No. We have three bodies with their etheric doubles. The material body with its etheric double. We have our psychical double with its etheric double. And our mind body, noetic body with its etheric body again. This etheric doubles is the link between the bodies. The etheric double is material. Matter is not always visible. The air is not visible yet the air is matter. So in the etheric double, you have the 3 most subtle natures of matter. You have 7 kinds of matter. The four, we can consider them tangible, [tangible?] and solid. The other three is the etheric double. [??] the etheric vitality. So, the etheric double is matter substance. Its matter again. Because, all the materialisations are bound by the etheric vitality; materialisation means becoming matter. And de-materialisation means something solid, material to become an [energy?]. So, shall we say the three natures of matter substance is the etheric double. Exact. So, the etheric double, we said, each remold? in which and by which as it is Mind, as it is etheric vitalty. The material body is built and kept in good health and kept in good health means continuous being in good health. Let nature of the etheric double, we call it creative ether. This creative ether, that kind of vitality, is under the authority of the Holy Spirit and the Holy [?]. The builders of the bodies, not only of the material body.
05’00”
So the builders of the bodies, the material body, the psychical body, and the noetical body, are working through the etheric doubles of the bodies. And extend their work in the bodies. So, we have the etheric double of our material body. Therefore, the etheric double of our material body is exactly as it is the material body because as it is the mold in which the material body is built, that shall not be any other form. Of course its forms material body. In time and in space, in occupying space, starts from this [?] there’s growing and growing and growing and growing in type. Changing completely. Our form, the [?] material body. The change is on the etheric double and then it follows the change on the material body. How is the etheric double composed of? We said the etheric vitality, but what is the qualities of this etheric vitality? To make into form, [???] which means the love in existence. Our etheric double is the mold in which the etheric body
is built. How its built? Each cell in the material body has its etheric double. Each bloodcell has its etheric double. Each part and organ in the material body has its etheric double. And then the whole body has its own now etheric double which is the collection of all those etheric doubles mold, forms, creating each cell, each atom, each organ in the material body. So just imagine what work is done for the building of a material body! The Holy archangels, workers, in the bodies, are working with their archangelic superconsciousness. Superconscious beings at the same time in many points and in many kinds of work, archangels, the Michaels, the Gabriels, the Raphael, the Uriels, the
Cherubs, the [?] under the supervision of God, the Absolute Beingness, as the Holy Spirit. So, our material body, and all the other bodies, are more Holy-Spiritual. What’s [?] our personality then? Our we not Holy Spiritual? The material bodies are holy-spiritual. Are Holy-Spiritual but mainly [] that is why we are very different than our material bodies. The material bodies are not ourselves. The material body has a subconsciousness and a consciousness of its own. Completely dependent from our subconsciousness, conscioussness, and [?] our self-conscioussness. The material bodies are not self-conscious. [They will be?] the workers and the Holy Spirit. These, the materialbodies and its etheric double are under our command, our command that means us.
10’00”
Self-consciousness’es for the time being? No. The material body, and the etheric doubles, very little known to our present-day personality, are not under the command of the present-day personality of a man. Definitely they are not. Will sometime be under the command of the present day personality? Yes. If the present day personality will change its self now in time and space and from […..???] find [itself?] at the Soul-Self consciousness, yes. The [office?] will be under the command of the entity of the present day personality living in those bodies. We are living in those bodies yet we are not our bodies, and the [government?] is not in command of these bodies or knows anything about them! […?] its announced that knowing something of the functioning of the etheric doubles in the material bodies. Even scientists today, Doctors of Medicine, do not know about the existence of the etheric double. There’s [yes?] Energy. What is energy? [Heart?] comes from the energy? And they are the Doctors of Medicine. An Englishman who taught this. It is of course said, the material body creates that what you call the etheric double, uh, which Energy, The brains creates
[?]. The material brains creates [salt?]. And the [fire?], the liver, its creates bile. I said that is what you know! No. They still have to learn more and more yet. So, we know that our etheric doubles are the mode in which and by which the bodies, the material body, the so-called psychical body and the noetic body, are big and kept in good order and are growing or growing and living. So the life of the material body depends on its etheric double. And if the etheric double withdraws from the material body, the material body tends to decay. To dissolve itself. Not to die, because they’re not [sajating?] as death. But constant change. So, when [one?] is leaving? The material body every night everybody is leaving the material body, in what we call unconscious exosomatosis. And[???] leaving the body in what we call conscious exosomatosis, and later self-conscious exosomatosis. [no clue???] etheric double? no. The etheric double cannot leave the material body for a single moment. Because when the etheric double leaves the material body, the material body tends to dissolve itself. To decay. What do we take then with us in exosomatosis? We are with our psychical body and its etheric double ... the noetical body and its etheric double. In exosomatosis living in what we call in the subplanes of the psychical world. And of course later we can leave behind even the psychic body and [be?] with our noetic body or mind body in the noetical world, leaving the same way we leave the material body lying in bed
15’00”
sleeping, to leave our psychical bodies. So. The material body, during what we call sleep, sleeping, or [?] exosomatosis, conscious exosomatosis, in lying in the bed or … working when we are out of the material body, in a phenomenal, nothingness, … isolation. The body is living, we are breathing, the heart is beating. The pulse of life is in the material body because in its is the etheric double. So. The etheric dobule as a whole, as a fomr, never leaves the material body, especially in its nature … creative aether. And we said, the etheric double has other qualities besides the creativeness of the material body. And do you know it as kinetic ether, as aesthetic or feeling/giving ether, and imprinting ether. And you have explained each nature of this functioning of the etheric double. Which is the proof that really, we are not mistaken, and we know these things to be real. Because we ca use them. Make use of them. And be sure of their nature and existence. Otherwise, we cannot be sure of the existence of something we cannot prove it is real, using the imprinting ether, in visualisation and making what we call elementals, projecting elements, and studying their nature, their strength the existence of them. We should be sure that they
exist! And even when we are not doing conscious at the beginning, subconscious use of them we are making. But we should make [of?] them conscious use of these qualities of the etheric double, so that we make use of it later, a self-conscious use. Then we are absolutely sure! But even by making conscious use of this qualities of the etheric double, we are sure. So, we will, by certain exercises, get this gift, and get the habit, of making daily, not daily, every moment, conscious use of this qualities of our etheric double which we call kinetic ether, aesthetic ether, feeling/giving ether, and the imprinting ether. Doing [make?] do make conscious use of the imprinting ether, building consciously what we call elementals? Most people no. They are making elementals subconsciously not to say unconsciously without these things of consciousness. Creating what we call evil elementals. So subconsciously, everyone is creating/projecting these kinds of elementals without seeing them, knowing them, yet under their influence all the time. And because they are not seeing—to the common—people this elementals. This is what renders them more dangerous
20’00”
because they cannot [taste?] them. They are under their influence but they are not in a state of checking them. I mean the common man. Projecting/creating what we call elementals, as Christ taught them: “meaningless, empty.” And reading the Bible, [seeing?] the New Testament to which he called these elementals … we are doing [in?] a case a man possessed by a collective elemental, calling itself [legion?], with [strong? ??] on the street, with an epileptic feet. We find these things in the New Testament, we find them even now in this society. And the psychotherapist, the psychiatrist, should know the nature of these elementals. That [???] before being in a state to make just a good therapy of certain people. Unless he knows the nature of these elementals. The environment that he cannot see them, he is not a clairvoyant, yet he should know the nature of them. Just to deal with them. To make a [???] called a psychoanalysis. That’s why most of these psychiatrists and psychotherapists are not succesful in their work, because they are working blindly. They don’t know what these elementals are. But, do they know them, in them, so that they will recognise recognise them and know them in the others. So these psychiatrists and psychotherapists should know the nature of these elementals composing his own present-day personality. If he cannot control these elementals in him … how he will be able to control the elementals in a patient? So. But is it possible not to do [?] work before becoming
clairvoyant? … that when seeing of course that is not necessary to know the nature of these elementals. By their behaviour. It is not necessary to be a psychotherapist, a clairvoyant [look …?] he develops. Clairvoyants see him. That’s much much better. He knows what he is doing now. And he can deal with them with authority. Ordering them. Seeing them, tracing them, he can just control them. Christ was controlling them, altering them, seeing them. So. Clairvoyants is most desire. And a Researcher after the Truth, or a psychotherapist, or a psychiatrist, to have it, to do it before him, a blessing. But. Even before that. He can know their nature by knowing their nature in himself. Studying them. Then know the nature of these elementals in the patients. So. You have spoken about these elementals. And we will speak much much more in the future because this is not a subject to be exhausted. Its an inexhaustible subject. Subject of elementals, describing these elementals. It is as difficult as to describe the personalities of human beings have these elementals are composing the present-day personalty of a human being. But [eventually?], we can classify them and study them. So. How are elementals created and projected
25’00”
since we said that the etheric double can never leave the material body and that material body [be?] [First of all?] {how} are these elementals created and projected? By the etheric double of course. The whole etheric double composing the whole material body in the organism of the material body as creative ether cannot leave the body. But, some of its substance that does [call?] its own. This, this stuff by which these elementals are born and projected, energies in the etheric double. So. Part of the etheric double is the best place of these elementals. And especially in the centre of energy in the root of the nose between the two eyes. And these centre of energy, energy centre of energy, the Hindu call it chakras, but why should we use Hindu names? We’ll call it centres of energy. How are these centres of energy? They resemble [like/light?] disks rotating, moving around, the speed they are turning is giving them the quality and of course the ability of the present-day personality to use them. So. The speed they are moving is not the same in all human beings. It seems that every one of these centres of vitality of energy coincides with an organ in the material body. So it has two qualities, the energising, and keeping with life that organ, and also serving in the economy of the whole etheric double. Of course, a clairvoyant can just see and distinguish these [work?] of the etheric centres. Now. How many are these etheric centres? Hundreds. But, no
need to know them all. The three fingerprints is the result of the rotation of these centres. So. You have in everything[?] of every finger [they have a ?] one of these [?] little, very little discs, moving, creating the fingerprints. You have, in the [parents?], you have [numbers?] on the toes, on the knees, these are of not much importance to the common man, or even to the psychotherapist. What are the main centres, bigger discs? [?] at the base of the spine. And this is under the orders
30’00”
directly of Raphael and Gabriel. In the Old Testament, its mentioned as the Salt of Michael moving around. The centre of Fire. They call it the psychic fire active at the base of the spine, the disc behind the body, [and?] the radiations toward the genitals. The functioning of this centre of the material body is just energising the genitals. Another centre is in the belly, and they call it the Solar Plexus. When a clairvoyant sees that centre, it is a radiating sun of various colours. But the development of the present-day personality is giving a reality, brilliant colours of the Solar Plexus. When that Solar Plexus is [all under?] the dominion of Raphael, it’s violet colour; of Michael, red colour; of Gabriel, blueish color; or combination of these colours. Now [all?] the time radiating like a [sun? centre?], [why?], they call it, the mystics, Solar Plexus. What is the material organs co-inciding with this centre? All the glands joined with nerves, in them and around them is that glow and behind them the disc rotating. I have never seen in two men the same colours of the Solar Plexus myself. But, these colours, are giving the good health in the material body. You see radiating from these discs no matter what the colour, you see, usually, a greenish, emerald colour, which means good health in the material body. The Solar plexus is under the orders of Gabriel. We said, the Sacred Fire, the Hindu’s call it kundalini—is a red, or deep violet. It’s under the orders of Raphael and/or Michael, but the Solar Plexus, of course it’s under the orders of all the archangels, but dominates there the archangel Gabriel. So. From another of not much importance, center of energy, the place of the liver. The colour depends on the health of the body. Their dominance, sometimes Gabriel, sometimes Michael, sometimes Raphael. Four of them are working, yet, from time to time, we see one of these archangels dominating in [its/each?] [?]. The liver is the workshop of the blood.
35’00”
It is the combined work of the archangels, to keep the human body, red warm blood. So, this centre is of much importance. Another centre of energy, coming on the spleen, Again, the same archangels are working and dominating from time to time. This also [a centre?] of cleaning the blood. So these two centres are for the blood in the human body. From another centre. Now the most important centre for us human beings. This is the centre on the heart. The centre on the heart is supervised by the Absolute Beingness as the Logos. There, we are expressing ourselves as Spirit Ego-Self-consciousness, and [also/so?] Self-consciousnesses, through the Heart. Who are the archangels working there? All of them! And. The Holy Spirit, but mainly it is the Logos, Christ. If one uses his Heart to express Love, to give his Heart to the Lord of Love, that means to the Logos. But unfortunately, there are certain elementals there of [?] you may call them [?] distorting love into hatred, because hatred is distorted love. You hate somebody, because that somebody, either you loved him, or you still love him, and don’t [???]. Because, if that is not so, why not forget him? Why hate him? And some call hatred wounded love. So. About this centre of/in the heart, we speak more because that concerns our present-day personality. Our present-day personality is represented by the Heart. And God Christ says in the New Testament, Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Just through the heart we will see God. Those infinite Beings. So, for us human beings, the heart is most sacred centre concerning us. Another two centres, are under our arms, in these cavities. For them, very little can be mentioned. [Ancient?] Greeks who are using the caduceus, that means two snakes in a pole, inside a pole. The heads of the snakes coincide with this caduceus of the [serpent?] I’m afraid I cannot speak more about these centres and how the serpent of Moses, that means in the spinal cord, has to [devour them?]. The two snakes of the Egyptians.
40’00”
The Old Testament, is symbolic. So. Another centre is on the thyroid. This is small centre, of course. This thyroid resembles a [ball of tennis?]. Yet inside this [ball of tennis?] rotates a disc, its colour is orange. This centre is the purification of the blood. The liver is for the blood, so the [?] liver is doing much, to give to the blood certain qualities; by purification of the blood that means killing the microbes and the germs is in the thyroid. So the thyroid is of much importance. [something about modern science/scientists] Now knows that, the whole blood passes through the
thyroid every 13 minutes, others say 14, others say 11, doesn’t matter. Maybe it’s not the same for all persons. Why? There, the functioning of the thyroid is to kill microbes and germs. Another centre of importance is at the root of the nose. And one, over the head. These centres are to give the present-day personality, called, I would say, clairvoyance. Seeing anything while awake in distance, and even in time, in the past. And this, also, are qualities one should have to develop. It’s not only the [opinion?] of this centre. Enough. One has to work and develop this skill. The centre above the head. It is just to be able to have conscious exosomatosis. Unless one opens this centre he cannot have conscious exosomatosis and in coming back to bring the memory of his experiences in the psychical plane. So. Is that the only centre of exosomatosis, or waking us up in what we call the psychical plane? No. Concentration and meditation, the solar plexus can give you a kind of subconscious exosomatosis, but there {he?} should be very very careful. Unless his present-day personality vibrates, the right way, that may be the door and the gate towards the Hell. The man will face nightmares. So one should be very very careful before opening the gates. There’s another fear of other elementals, or even what we call evil spirits, to get control of, of that centre.
45’00”
there, we call that, obsession. [For?] an elemental, its obsessing [him?], that elemental possesses even the human mind, the human brains. And we call these: fixed ideas. Now. Possession. Certain elementals of departed ones who are not considered to be beneficial to humanity are banished to the moon. For certain periods the etheric, or rather the psychical counterpart of the moon and Earth approach and touch and this banished spirits can come back to the Earth but cannot stay there in the atmosphere of the Earth for long because they have to go back, they are thrown back to the Moon. But during those periods they can gain entrance to the chakras. Solar plexus, liver, and spleen. [Mischief?] chakras. They gain entrance in the body and in that personality, what would be the result? Feets of a [heresy?] You see these people throwing themselves on the ground. And just having spas{m}ed, when it happens that you find somebody there, on the ground, what do you do? Simply touch with your fingers in place of the spleen, or of the liver. Your magnetic/magnetism, will force it departed go home. No need to push there, but touch with your finger.
47’32” {session ends abruptly}
{silence}
47’37” {recording ends}