1990.02.09
Daskalos Stoa Lesson February 9, 1990 (Parts A and B) - Transcribed by RTT
Our Father, Who art in Heaven, Hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done on Earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory forever.
God of Life, Love, and Mercy. Enlighten our minds to understand Your Truth. Clean our hearts to reflect Your Love towards You and towards all other human beings. Amen.
We said in previous lessons that everything existing is mind. Everything existing. The universes. All the universes. Not only the material universe.
The so-called psychical universe. The noetical/noetic universe. All the universes existing and everything existing in these universes is mind. Everything is made of mind. So, what’s mind now to see it from another point of view. The means of the expression of the Infinite Beingness will as motion, radiations, vibrations. One of the natures of the Absolute Beingness is motion. So, the will of the Infinite Beingness is motion as condition. So, what is is the Absolute Beingness eternally forever and what exists is mind in what you call time and space. So we see two things now. The eternal, the immortal, the Absolute Beingness in its self-sufficiency. Life. The Absolute Beingness is Life. And what exists, which is the result of what we call the Total Wisdom of the Infinite Beingness, the Total Love of the Infinite Beingness, the total Might and Power of the Infinite Beingness. And we can by meditation, concentration, and observation see that in studying what we call the circles of possibilities, existence, and probabilities of everything having a form and everything living in the universes. In the universes, not only the material universe because the material universe is what we call matter. Mind-matter. Matter is mind solid. What we call material universe, I don’t mean only the planet and the moon and the solar system, the galaxies. Everything which is material, solid. We have used the word solid mind but what do we mean by solid?
5’00”
Solid is just comparing similar vibrations giving us what we call solid. When we say matter, solid matter, it’s a different thing. Now, I’ll explain to you what I mean. What we call solid on the material plane is what vibrates to the same rate of vibrations of our material body and our material hands. What we touch we find it to be solid because we have the solid hands. If we are in our psychical body you have different vibrations of what I call matter-substance. Here on the material plane we have matter. On the psychical we have matter-substance, it’s also matter. As matter on the material plane is taking forms, billions and billions of forms, living forms, phenomena of life, the same thing we have in the psychical plane only the psychical plane, all the subplanes, and the seven planes of the psychical planes are vibrating in a different rate of vibrations. Now, when you find yourself either in exosomatosis, subconsciously of course, during the night in what you a living vivid dream you don’t use your hands there, your material hands there. And you don’t see things with your material eyes. They are closed and your body is lying on your bed, yet you move about. You are moving. There in the psychical plane what’s solid to you? What vibrates at the same rate of vibrations as your psychical hands? You have the solids there. You are handling things there. Now, are they solid or not
solid? For you, everything touching with your psychical hands, anything psychical, is for you solid. So it is in interpreting rate of vibrations to have the idea of solids, liquids, or gaseous. So it is impressions you are interpreting calling things solid. Now, those who know who can after passing out of their bodies which definitely makes them feel in a subplane of the psychical plane with which they vibrate, their psychical body vibrates. Immediately people are out of their material bodies in the exosomatosis they find themselves in that subplane of the psychical body and not on the material plane. Yet, everything material has its psychical counterpart. To find yourself on the material plane through the psychical counterpart you must know how to lower your vibrations to the material plane. Now, lowering these vibrations to the material plane this needs mastery and skill. You can find yourself in a room, in your room, in any room of any house of your friends there and see things as they really are. But do you see the material things or their psychical counterpart? Because we said everything existing, having a form, being…
10’00”
...in a material what we call condition, has its psychical counterpart and the mind counterpart. So, finding yourself in a room in the material plane with your psychical body using your psychical hands are the material chairs solid for you? I speak of my own experience. No. You can pass your hand through the material chair or the material table because it vibrates in a different rate of vibrations your psychical hand. Now, being in a room with our psychical body can we move a material chair from its place with our psychical hands? No. Your hands will pass through it. You must know after gaining what I said self-consciousness to lower down your vibrations. It needs much skill to do that. To the same vibration of the material chair then you can take it and move it but those around you will see your hands materialized. You must have the technique of materialization and dematerialization before being able to do that you will not be able with our psychical body to move anything material, on this material plane. Is that possible to be done? Yes, of course it is. I have done it myself many many times when it was needed to do it. So, is it necessary to materialize completely your psychical body so that it will be seen to move something or materialize only the hands? Why wasting energy of the mind in other planes just to make yourself visible completely? You can materialize only the hands. Of course this is a skill the invisible helpers they should have. So, what is solid is what vibrates to the same rate of vibrations with the hands we are using at that time. The material world is solid for us because we use our material bodies. The material world is not solid for those who
have passed over being in their psychical bodies and the world interesting them in which they live consciously is what we call the psychical world. Where is the psychical world of our planet? In our planet and around our planet many many thousand kilometers around the planet. But the psychical body of our planet, of the Earth, is not touching even the psychical body of the moon. Now, when we find ourselves in what we call the noetic world is the psychical world solid for us? No, we find the same difference. You are vibrating with our noetical body in a different rate of vibrations. So, the same difference exists…
15’00”
...between the psychical world and the noetic world as it exists between the material world and the psychical world. Can one now in the noetic world lower his vibrations to the rate of the psychical body? Or create a new psychical body if he has left it back and live consciously in the psychical world? Yes, it is much easier to do it from the noetic world. To live consciously in the psychical world it is much easier than being in the psychical world and live in the material world. So solids, liquids, gaseous, and everything is a matter of rate of vibrations. This is what changes the conditions from the one universe to the other universe. So we have what we call the material universe. All we know of the material universe definitely is the surface of the planet. The one-third. The other two-thirds is water and the oceans. Believe me our planet is very very small indeed for those who can live in a different way than living only in their material bodies. The psychical world is much much more because we said that the psychical body of the planet is inside the planet, around the planet, many many thousands of kilometers around the planet and I have described it. It’s seven planes and the planes are different rates of vibrations and each plane is again divided into seven sub-planes so we have 49 sub-planes. Hells and paradises for us according to the shells we are living in and not to the locality. So, the psychical world is just like our material world. World in which the psychical matter-substance, because it is material also but it is also substance, is getting forms. It is just similar to the life on our planet. So, to go about in the material body you have to use our feet or some other means of traffic. How we live in the psychical world? The same way you are living in the material world. Is our psychical body in form? Of course it is just the same as is our material body but is it just as our material body? Heavy. Under the law of gravity? Because we have different now physical laws in the other dimension. No. Of course one who passes over and finds himself…
20’00”
...in a room, in a house, or in a place which is similar to the one he left, yet it doesn’t coincide with the physical plane. You find things are there. Being there he is moving about in the same way he was doing it in the material plane. Just to go out he is opening the door to go out. Or entering in a room or in a house he will open the door and enter in it because he is accustomed to that. So, being in certain sub-planes of the psychical world you will find people living exactly in the same way they were living in the material world. Moving their psychical body in the same way they are moving their material body on the material world. And they may live there for years, earthly years I mean, in this way. While they could do a different thing. Pass through the walls. Not necessarily to use their feet to go here and there. By thinking thought is movement and motion in the psychical world. They can be anywhere they like by changing the rate of vibrations and being there. Of course they have to be taught about it. Many accept it. Many do not want to accept it. They want to live just in the same way they are living in the material world. Now something else. We said they live in a locality of their own creation. Does it coincide with the material planes we have down on Earth? Not exactly but there is a connection. For one who knows, being there, he can lower I said his vibrations and be in that place on the material plane. Something else describing the psychical sub-planes. One is there living in a place as he knew it on the material plane. Living there. For years and years everything remains as it is created. But maybe on the material plane there are changes. While there are houses, more houses, now there are big constructions. Conditions on the material plane are influencing the things, the places in the psychical plane people are living? No. They have their own place and in the psychical plane things are not changing so quickly as things are changing on the material plane. What exists will always exist for those who want it to exist. So, changes in the psychical plane are not so quickly to be seen as we see them on the material plane. And on the noetic plane?
25’00”
There are no changes there. Are things not improving there? Of course they are improving but they have the duplicate in improvement and not destruction of the previous condition. So, to have on our material plane to construct a big building have to pull down a smaller house there and use the place, the building site, and make the building. So that house is gone from the material plane. In the psychical plane you can have what you call improvements, your improvements, changing your world but not that of the others. In the noetical plane, yes, you can have the changes by duplicating,
I don’t know if this is the exact word, by creating new things without demolishing the old ones. Which means you find a man in the noetic plane. He knows a building in the noetic plane. He makes other things. He can see those other things, those big constructions, but he did not destroy the first. By thinking it over there it is. So, thought is taking changes and still keeping its form once created according to our wish. We say but is that real? And I ask you why it isn’t real? Really is what you know on the material plane only? When you live in the other worlds you will find that they are much more real than the material world. Toward a matter of understanding the conditions of those places in the worlds of the various dimensions. So, the noetic world. Now the noetic world. Where is the noetic world of our planet? In the planet, around the planet, and touching all the noetic bodies of other planets of our solar system. And, also, of anything existing in the galaxy. So, one living in the psychical world can not leave it and go to a psychical counterpart of another planet. Definitely he cannot do that. But one living consciously in the noetic plane can go everywhere he likes in the solar system, and even in the galaxy. So, we find what we call material mind, call it solid. Nevermind we understand it like that. And the material body of the planet is far away from the material bodies of other planets. We have the psychical body of our planet and the psychical body of the moon and the psychical bodies of the other planets of our solar system which are not touching each other. But do we have the noetic planet…
30’00”
...in the noetic substance? In the noetic substance is that substance in which all the solar systems and the galaxy are in it. So, can we leave the galaxy? Of course I don’t have that. Don’t have time for anything more. What I am telling you is what I know myself. Now I put you the question: What can be life? What’s life from this point of view now? I compare it with life confined only in a material body moving it about in the same way a tortoise is moving its shell. What’s now life? Yesterday I described you conditions of life as subconsciousness, consciousness, super-consciousness, self-consciousness, and super-self-consciousness. I do not know if you understood well these terms. But these are conditions of life. Of your life. You are the life. So what’s now your life in a material body in what you call waking consciousness. You say you are awakened. What does it mean you are awakened? Receiving impressions from the surrounding place? What can that be more? Then I put you the question do you really believe that you receive impressions as you should? What you call consciousness, waking consciousness. Is it really consciousness? Now
I give certain exercises to some people. Let us make a walk. You are making walk. I said now making this walk you will have gone to that road many many times, maybe hundreds of time, you have gone that way. But now we must live more consciously. I said consciously. Said more consciously. More consciously. Still more consciously and more consciously. What we call consciousness is in degrees but self-consciousness is only self-consciousness. It needs practice to investigate this truth. Now, I say we must more consciously now for fifteen minutes making a walk but you must observe and note everything. Moving. Every step what happens near you. What’s coming, going, houses. Things, even a fly, flying in front of you. A dog barking. What you’ll find out? That in everyday life going through that road, that way, you didn’t get even the two tenths of what we should have taken as impressions. How then can you claim that you live consciously? And something else. If you don’t learn to live consciously on the material plane how do we have the claim to live consciously in the psychical world?
35’04”
We have to get the habit of living consciously on the material plane and then when you get that habit you will find that you live more consciously in the psychical world. Which means your dreams will be more clear to you. You will be living, moving about, in the locality I call psychical world just exactly as you live in what you call waking consciousness on the material plane. But are those who have every night the exosomatosis, they have to do it. Living even subconsciously the psychical plane or moving about like somnambulists. So is it necessary to be awakened in the psychical plane? Yes, otherwise to be awakened in the psychical plane in the same way every morning we return in our bodies and we said we are awakened now and we are living consciously, conditionally consciously on the material plane. So you have to be taught first to get the habit of living consciously, really consciously, in the material plane so that you will live consciously in the psychical plane also. So I am describing now what I call consciousness, consciously, which far from, far away from living self-consciously. You have to free your real I-ness, your real Ego, from egoism to be able to live self-consciously. And in the material world and in the other worlds. So what’s life now? Not knowing any other way of living except living in a material body, moving it about as I said as a tortoise is moving in her shell, you will find that life is what you know of life. But when you know to live also in other ways then you will find that living in a material body is not life in reality. I had the other day a fellow who told me “Daskale, ooh, last night I had a very very nice dream.” Really? “Yes. I have seen these places and
these places and these colors. COLORS. More bright colors. More beautiful colors. Flowers. Yes, peachy it was a dream.” I told him then you were living. Now you are dreaming. If I put you the question at that moment are you dreaming now? He said, “Am I dreaming now?” Yes, of course now you are dreaming. Then you were living more, better. “But no it was a dream. I saw I was flying.” I said, yes, you could do that in the psychical plane. No need to go step by step, opening doors, and moving, and stumbling. Yes, of course, you could do that. And I’m sure many of you had these lovely dreams of flying. That was a reality. You are moving in the psychical plane, but you must train yourself to live consciously in that plane and later subconsciously. (Self-consciously?)
40’00”
When you find that you are living self-consciously now, even before achieving what I call self-super-consciousness, there is no death, any meaning of death for you. You will know what’s life. Now I put you the question, what’s life? You are the life because we are beings in the Absolute Beingness which is Life. We realize that we are life and we are not afraid of losing our life in a material body because when you find out the truth that liberates you from the fear of what we call death. It’s nothing more than change. And I tell you something else. If you put the question to the departed ones, once they establish themselves in the psychical plane, and show them that they had lived on the earth and asked them to come back if they like to. Nobody will come back. Believe it. Yes, nobody will like to come back because life there is easier and far better. But one should just realize the truth which means understand what is life and what are the worlds in which he is living. We are afraid because we don’t know the truth. If we knew the truth there would not be such a thing as fear. Afraid of what we call death. But now we come to another point. Should we be satisfied with the way you are living now? I have just to investigate that. How are we live now? No matter if you are Cyprus, in Switzerland, in Germany, in England, in America. Anywhere. How are the people living now? Consciously? They think they are living consciously yet I tell you they are living subconsciously, not consciously. When they make that exercise I taught you selecting quarter of an hour to live live fully, receive every impression, making a walk and not missing everything they will see that houses have green windows, brown windows they have not noticed them before. If I put some questions to some people who have passed a road they will not be able to reply how many houses. What kind of houses. The style they were built. The gardens. What the gardens were having there. I tell you we receive normally two impressions in ten. Living consciously
now, receiving as much more as we can from our place. At the beginning you will feel tired because you need to concentrate and observe. Well, we said be careful now. No tension because tension will make you feel tired. In observation you don’t need to exercise tension. But observe just only.
45’04”
Now, even the meditation, when you start meditation, everybody is starting the wrong way by using what they say tension and they think that this tension is what you call attention. That means observation. This is wrong. In tension you cannot receive many impressions but in peacefully without tension observing things without getting tired you may get more and more and more impressions. So you must get the habit of relaxation. Everyone is using this word relaxation without knowing exactly what it means. Some even of the inner circle they said, “Sir, Daskale, we have succeeded just to relax. Yes, we see that we feel completely relaxed. All muscles we notice are relaxed. We find ourselves that our body is completely relaxed.” Good. What about you? You have succeeded to cause relaxation in your body. What about you? Did YOU relax? “What do you mean?” You were in a turmoil of thoughts and emotions. It’s not enough to relax the muscles of the body but also YOU have to relax and find yourself. “Yes, in reality I had so many things bothering me.” Why you didn’t relax?
End Part A