1990.01.03 -B Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript transcription by rhr
So. That little thought, not bigger than the head of a pin, created at the root of the nose, in this etheric center here, is projected, to place and condition. When its out, and within, out, especially, (it) gets the natural form. If you want to have a car, a nice car and you have seen a car, well, it’s as as small as the head of a pin head but when it comes out, it gets a natural form. The car. Or of a big construction.
Is that elemental living? Does it have a life of itself now? Yes. Can that elemental think? Has he the power of thinking? Yes. But the thought of that elemental can never exceed the thought of the creator… the fellow who projected it.
What is the nature now of this elemental? It vibrates. If it is the three fourths of its existence in motion… vibrations, strong vibrations… and very little thought, mind in it… now we can get what will be the behavior of that
elemental. Such an elemental Christ was calling them ‘mute and meaningless’, yes, like that. Christ is mentioning them in the hospital. When that elemental goes, making in the natural size that thing outside, the theromagy as small as the head of a pin, yet strong. Because that that holds, what we call the circle of possibilities. Christ said it carries seven others, similar to it. (It) returns to the human being to be reenergized, to receive more energy. Go out. Come back. Go out. Come back. How many such elementals we create every day, every hour. But are we doing anything exactly with such elementals?
So. Every word, every wish, because are not words, without having behind them wishes and thoughts… every thought is creating an elemental. Vibrating to certain rate of vibrations, and attuned to similar elementals all around us. So this is the nature of what we call ‘thought forms’. But I said something that… the intelligence of every elemental is similar to the intelligence of the creator. Not better.
We will come to the ‘gods’ of the past. Of the centuries back. As far back as we can realize, to many many civilizations in many many places on the planet. Man always had the need to adore a god.
05’00”
Or gods. Why loving god? Now, he felt that he should rely on a higher intelligence for his safety. Out of need. He needed the gods. So you find so many gods, created by man. Did these gods live? All elementals are living. Do they live now? Definitely they are living now. Where? In the cosmic consciousness. Can I come in touch with them? With Kali? With Jove? With Mars? With Mercury? With Venus, and all that? Can we come in touch with them? Of course we can. How? If we can attune ourselves to the vibrations of those gods… it’s a matter of attuning yourself to those vibrations. And I said that those elementals, those gods, even saints, have just the intelligence of their creator.
Of course, the human beings are advancing, becoming better and better through using the thought more reasonably to know more about the truth and be deceived less by the illusions. From a century to the other century. This dis-energizes certain gods of the past. Man has now different needs. Because all those gods had the characteristics of the fellows who created them. They were there ([corass?] the thought) human sacrifices. Later, of
animal sacrifices. Later, just flowers have been left. So why people see more clearly, leaving behind them the illusions? They create such living, not men, existences, to serve his needs.
Now I come to a point, one should be very, very careful. How many Jesus Christs we have now? Said but do we have many? Said, too many!
Everyone has created his Jesus Christ and anything to his measures. Yes, even the group. Christian groups are creating such elementals now, to their measures. If I ask a question to a fellow “who is Jesus Christ?” How he understands Jesus Christ? To describe him? Himself? If he hates, Jesus Christ hates his enemies. He doesn’t think that Jesus on the cross says “Forgive them Father for they don’t know what they are doing”? Did Christ say that? Did he really say that? I heard that from a priest. He wanted a hateful Christ to punish those who don’t go on Sunday to the Church. To cast them to the hell.
So if he closes his eyes, he finds a Christ that he created - an elemental of Christ - to his own measures. I had a priest that day telling me that Jesus Christ is speaking to him! Definitely his Jesus Christ is speaking to him. His elemental. Of course.
Now, groups of people, some English people, called him ‘a general’.
10’00”
“Onward Christian soldiers, marching as to war, with the cross of Jesus, going on before. And they sing it in a big church.” They do sing it. I don’t know if you have the same…in America, yes, that’s very good. (laughter). What is the nature of this Jesus, who is the Lord of Love? Is there anything common?
Now. The Greek Orthodox fighting the Bulgarian Orthodox. Belonging to the same dogma. One begging Virgin Mary, calling her a general, seeing her fighting against the Bulgarians. Many many in the [chrismos?] saying ‘we saw Virgin Mary fighting in the front, I can see her ahead’ and many Bulgarians say they saw Virgin Mary fighting the Greeks. Did you have 2 Virgin Marys? One in the side of the Greeks and the other in the side of the Bulgarians? They both were praying to her.
So, we must be just a little bit reasonable. I said in many lessons to all Researchers of the Truth they will have with us the best friend, the New Testament. And not imagine, according to their own measures Christ and all the higher intelligences wrongly. Happily it’s everything the truth stated, especially stated by Johannan, St. John the Evangelist. There.
So. Any Christ not to those measures is to their measures.
So, we should be very carefully in what now, in how we make use of the Mind. What we create, by means from the Mind. And believe me, if the animals who are authorized to use the Mind the same way we human beings are authorized to use it… maybe say, ‘it wouldn’t do’. So much bad use of the Mind as we do. Fighting each other, killing each other. And even, unseeing that the Divinities are favoring our kinds.
Now, if you read Homer, Illiad, and that of Ulysses, the clairvoyants at that time, I mean the Greeks fighting the Trojans, who are seeing the gods fighting in their favor, of course the other side were seeing certain other gods fighting the Greeks! These are mentioned in Homer’s books. Were they seeing these gods fighting? I’ll call them god-elementals? Yes. They were seeing them.
So. Who is now responsible for the creation or re-energizing of such elementals? Just to serve our purposes? Not we. Yes we will have a reason now without ignoring that we have, in this way, do we want just to make our position lighter? I don’t accept that.
We have been given the authority to use the Mind and the ability to use reason if we want to… so there we are not excused… there is not any excuse…human beings today, Sons of God, allowed to use the Mind,
15’00”
the Divine Mind, to serve them, should realize their responsibilities. And not making bad use of the Divine essence we call Mind. Everyone is responsible for his thoughts and the way he is thinking. And acting. So that he will call himself human and not a devil.
Now, is there punishment in making bad use of the Mind? In creating elementals? Of course there is. But God is not punishing. The Absolute
Beingness is not punishing. The Lord of Love is not punishing. Stated clearly ‘I came to save the world from their ignorance and not to criticize, because in criticizing, is a kind of punishment’. So God is not punishing, but punishment it is. Which is the part we call punishment? And why should we call this result of the contravention of the law a punishment?
If we call the punishment then, it is what we call ‘fair punishment’. And in every thought, good or evil, there is immediately the reward and the punishment. When you start studying all these things, you will find it. So is a human being, as present day beingness punishing itself? Yes. Because that’s the law. All of contravention cannot remain like that, but balance or harmony must return. But eternal… the balance or the harmony with is in the Divine wisdom… there is an effect we may call punishment. But we should not think that the Absolute Beingness, the Logos and the Holy Spirit are punishing.
I gave an example the other day. Here is the law of gravity. The law of gravity is most necessary to keep order and everything, as is the solid material [unint.] our houses. And life on the planet. This law of gravity exists. It’s a law. It cannot violate this law of gravity. A fellow, just neglecting this law of gravity, or not knowing it even, gets a stone, throws it up, and the stone comes, but…then strikes on his head, after a cut… head bleeding, and [unint] “Oh God punished me!”. What did God punish? Did God punish him because the stone came on his head? And his … how it’s bleeding?
That must be stupid to say that. Should God, for his sake, not to have the stone on his head, that moment stop the law of gravity? What would happen? Everything would be destroyed in a moment. Cause for his sake not to have the stone he has thrown up now come on his head.
What must then be known? By observation and study? The laws exist. And the laws should not be violated. These are the words, violate. So. And we should learn how not to do that. There is not, suggesting, as punishment, but we put in now more scientifically,
20’00”
we must know the law of cause and effect. And a relative cause has a relative effect. This has [unint.] You should study physics to know the laws
on the physical plane.
Now we see some people in the mental hospitals here and there. They are violating psychical laws. You have a relative effect. A cause has a result or relative effect. Is God punishing those people? Are they self-punished? You may say that also, but why ‘self punished’?
I go a step further. How will I mend things by self punishment? That means knowing the reality and not [unint.] it? Just call that repentance.
Maybe it’s how people understand things. Now if you tell me, ‘Is repentance confession?’ As the church is putting it, necessary? Yes, it is as necessary as a self psychoanalysis.
That’s with the same result. No need to have a priest there standing, “[unint.]” and of course confess and forgive stupidity. And human egoism. Instead of him, a loving brother psychoanalysist can do much more. What is really the aim of that? To realize the truth. So, [unint] and God-given. Do you feel this way? They checked this way.
So, did Christ mention anything about these things? “Know the Truth and the Truth will liberate you.” And you will know the truth. The truth is liberating everyone from all kinds of illusions and conditions.
So, I say that the most important thing is to know the truth.
Now I have both why and how. We need them both. Why. And how. Why know the truth? Because that is which will liberate us. How? By self-realization, self-examination, and knowing the self, as the thinker, and you are to impose the decisions from that kind of work, knowing the truth.
So the work of a Researcher after the Truth, is most important for what we call self-development, or psychical upliftment. There is not any other way. The self-analysis.
Now what’s the self, again? What’s the self-analysis? We spoke about the self, But I see the self now in various stages.
25’00”
with a center point.
So, what is really interesting us now, the expressions of that self? Or the central point? The real self?
Which I know have a point, then I have five or six circles all around the same point with the same center always. But the circles are as so each center of each circle has a different radius. Five by circles, with the same center. What is really interesting, the circle, or the center? What is common in this five or six circles, bigger and bigger, having the same center? The center, or the circles? The cause or the expression?
But for this self, consciousness we call self-consciousness, what I did the self-consciousness of the present day personality is sinful and petty, or a purified entity again, present day personality, self-conscious personality, or whether that personality extends, with experience and its expressions to the soul-Ego-Self-consciousness. Or yet, a bit further, to reach the Ego-Spirit-Super-self consciousness, like a one center.
Yes, Ego. And that Ego, when that Ego is of a sinful fellow there, its god. Its what we call self-consciousness. What matters is the self-consciousness and not how it is expressed.
Now, what really matters is self-consciousness, whether you say “I am George” or you say “I am I”, you passed over the word “George”, present personality, and return to the inner nature, or you say “I am god”, what counts is that “I am”. Now what’s “I am”? Should I use the word “am”? To realize what “I am”?
Can I not enter in my “I-ness” which I would, defining it in time and in condition? The “I” is of importance, “am” is a characteristic. Is that not so? It’s time. An expression. I think I’m taking two very big words. Now I want just to mean that what comes is the “I-ness”, your Ego. The [heugots?] had to find god, in you, that means in the present day personality. You find it in your “I-ness”. Which, that “I-ness”, you should respect. Not allow the present day personality to color it, or make it dirty.
You can say “I am not a good man.” “I am an idiot”. You don’t have the right. That “I-ness” to color, in a dirty way. Because you have to respect your inner nature. The god you are, not the god who is ‘in you’. Yes the god
is IN the present day personality, it is part of the present day personality, but the present day personality is NOT you. In the same way your material body is not you.
So when we center
30’00”
our self-consciousness, to this “I”, “I-ness”, we must see it pure, clean, god-like. Now. Any questions?
Q: If there is no punishment coming from a god outside of you, there is no reward coming from outside of you.
D: But still…
Q: If there is no punishment coming from a god outside of you, there is no reward coming from outside of you. If I thank, I have to thank the god who is as me. Am I correct?
D: Yes, but who’s a god outside me? Can affect you by their soul your god within? The concern why? So that the one, is within. Also the punishment is from within. The contravention is outside, and from outside. Contravention… going against the law…. because you do things, from outside. So the contravention is from outside, and of course, the balancing of things must be outside of us. That’s why we will come back. Because, things, debts, on the material plane, have to be settled on the material plane. Not in other plane.
Psychical causes, psychical results… not material. Causes must have material solution. But there is not a result for the reincarnation, left.
Q: So either the punishment or the result is the same for mental as much as before.
D: Yes.
Q: Do you say that people have created their own Christs with elementals.
D: Yes.
Q: And, what’s the way to get the Absolute Christ?
D: Attuning yourself to the Absolute Christ.
Q: Is Attunement…
D: … by knowing him…
Q: … praying to the Absolute Christ, that’s attunement to the Absolute Christ?
D: I think one can attune himself to the Perfect Christ by realizing that he is Love as the Christ is. There is no other way. Now, how you will present real Christ on… and believe that that Elemental, called Christ, either created by you or created by others is not the Perfect Christ? By the quality of your Love. By the quality of the Love you are preaching. By the quality of Love you are expressing.
Because, we know who is Christ, now, who was Christ and what Christ will be in the future. Perfect, impersonal Love. Can you express that?
Any kind of love you express which is not impersonal, or characterized in that way, or that way, is a light colored by you. Light again, I didn’t say it isn’t light, I gave you the example today. I don’t say that that ‘It’s bad’. It may not be so pure, not bright, but it’s light again. And people, believe me, they do need it.
So I put another question. You have here this room. You have just here, a lamp. A very strong light. You have that lamp. Can you withstand the light? Our eyes?
Some say, a lady will come and say, “look, I’ve got to cover this light with this rosy cloth. That is my delight. Better light for everybody. To see, and be in comfort. Again, it’s light. But colored light. Light to the measure of those who are here present. I don’t say that’s not good.
35’00”
But I said that’s not the perfect light. But again I say… if people can stand
the perfect light. So if the people can’t stand the perfect light…
Yes? Got a question?
Q: How can I realize it is from…[unint.] but consciousness but Christ Consciousness [unint]… must I find, can I find the Consciousness in me who can…
D: See the real light?
Q: Who can find the ways to connect to the real Christ Consciousness?
D: Now look here. The we do slow and slowly and slowly. Because, let’s find today, where you stand. As a present day personality. You must study your emotions, your desires, your thoughts, your intentions, the way you are living. And study their quality. Then start slowly slowly changing them for better. And better. That means seeing things in a better light. By reasoning. And by what we call ‘right thinking’. You can see this.
Of course, by doing so and you need time, much time to study your present day personality condition now, as emotional body, and as noetic body. You need time. When you reach that stage, when you are now master of matter, master of emotions - your emotions, master of your thoughts, of course you will know where you stand. Of course you will see the light. But now, you see the light without a fear of being injured or damaged. You couldn’t see the light before. Because, seeing the light before, you wouldn’t be able to stand it.
So, by corrections, through the course of time, you can endure more of the light because love and light is fire. Didn’t I say that before to you. So, before you are ready to touch the fire without burning yourself… it’s unwise to do it… But you must train yourself to those conditions, so that without any harm, you handle the light. And the fire. It’s what we call ‘self purification’. It’s most necessary. Where are the dangers? Just find a person, a girl or a man, now under very strong weaknesses - drinking, going after women or going after men, using just a kind of life which is - I don’t call it sinful - but I call it with very very low, and strong vibrations.
I have that fellow here. He wants to see the light. How can he do it? And if he is able to see that, what will be the result? You’re going to call
consciousness. Well [unint] psychotherapists running psychical centers should be very very very careful.
Because the same mistake done now by many psychotherapists and even priests, who they say they mean good, why they are doing very much
40’00”
harm. Unless one is ready to face the reality, don’t show any reality to him if that reality will kill him, will awake in him stings of consciousness that will lead him to despair. God, in His mercy, has covered our memory so that he will give us time to improve. Why should men use another way? Why forgetting?
Many are coming here wanting to remember their past incarnations. But why? The Infinite Beingness and the Logos and the Total Wisdom of God is depriving you now, from remembering. Because you are not ready to face the truth and the reality and the light. It may lead you to despair. Slowly slowly, when one reaches the point that remembering will not harm him, he will remember then. But not before.
So it’s better that we should proceed carefully, and according to the Will of God. What’s the Will of God? Not too fast, to create injury in our personality. This is the plan.
So, no need to hurry. Of course, that doesn’t mean you’ll cross your arms and sit quiet. Go, in a safe step, not too quickly, but not very slowly. Yes. So. Now questions?
Q: When I tune in in the Christ Consciousness, and I feel vibrations, what does those vibrations mean?
D: What is vibrations?
Q: yeah, what kind of vibrations is it when it’s not the kind Christ Consciousness… how can you recognize the vibrations when they come through?
D: Now, I say, what vibrations… what are vibrations? Oh it’s difficult to explain, but I can give an explanation. You find a fellow. He has really very
very violent vibrations. Of anger. Of egoism. Of the feeling of being offended. So, you find him in a quarrel with somebody. Or even with you [punk shootist?] that means violent vibrations.
Don’t try to teach him what’s the light, that moment. Can you do it? So when he lowers down his vibrations, then find the time to make him vibrate in a better way. Vibrations of love. Because he is vibrating very badly and you will be vibrations of aggression.
So you would study what kind of vibrations are there, and how you have to face them.
Put another way. You see fire. You see much heat. Is it wise, when you see a red hot iron to go there and put water over it? Is that wise? No.
When it’s no more red,
45’00”
you can do it. So judge the rate of vibrations. Once I had students who had a stove in the office. They said ‘who want a [talky time?] to happen there?’ Much work he would have by and by. What he did? The plate became hot there. He has put something in it, on it. And of course we had there, water. Was heated, because he wanted to save heating he stuck it, burner. It got hotter and evaporated. [unintelligible] surge of steam. He said ‘awww…’ Said OK, it was not the time to do that. You could do it maybe, let things…
[end of side]