1990.02.08
February 8, 1990 Stoa Lesson by Daskalos - Transcribed by RTT
Our Father, who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy WIll be done on Earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory, forever.
God of Life, Love, and Mercy enlighten our minds to understand Your Truth. Clean our hearts to reflect Your Love towards You and towards all other human beings. Amen.
1’00”
Today we will speak more about the bodies we are using already: our material body, our so-called psychical body, and our noetic body. Of course, all wise men in past centuries not only knew about the existence of these bodies and they were using them. They were making good use of them. St. Paul mentions these three bodies. We can find this in the New Testament - the letters of St. Paul. We have a material body. We have a psychical body - he is calling it by psychical body also. And a noetic body, we say. St. Paul says spiritual body but to separate it from the Spirit we all it noetic body instead of spiritual body because Spirit is the Absolute Beingness. So, the material body of every one is the same. Bones, the skeleton, flesh, blood, the various organs. Studying the material body of a man, a male person, we know what is the body of a male person. Studying the body of a woman or a female person, we know what are the bodies of all female persons. So, the material body of man, male or female, is built by the holy archangels and the Holy Spirit according to the Divine Plan. What is in the Divine Plan for the human being? What we call the Idea of Man or the Heavenly Man. God, the Logos, as God-Man honored this Idea of Man and we hear Christ calling Himself the Son of Man. He didn’t mean son of
Joseph, because he was not the son of Joseph. He was the Son of God. But He called Himself the Son of Man honoring the Idea of Man, the Heavenly Man. This was misunderstood by many thinking that Christ had brothers and sisters by a father and a mother. Now, the bodies, the material bodies, of all human beings are alike...
5’00”
...in form and in constitution. From the same stuff and substance as the body, the material body, of a man and a woman is built all the bodies, the human bodies are built. Now, the psychical body. The so-called psychical body. Of course that psychical body is under the same laws. Are the psychical bodies of all human beings, male and female or male/female, the same? No. Definitely no because you cannot find two people expressing the same present day personality. So, the qualities of the so-called psychical body are our emotions, our desires. We, as present day personalities, expressing an ego, are living more in our psychical bodies instead of our material bodies because a human being knows very very little about his physical body, how it works, how it’s built, how it’s kept in good health leaving all that to the holy archangels, the Lords of the Elements, and the Holy Spirit. Of course we can study and we must study, meditate, and know our material bodies because it’s said that the material body is the Temple of God. Yes, definitely, of our real self. So, now, what about the psychical body? I said in a lesson that when a spirit-ego-self-superconsciousness is going to be humanized, or incarnated, into a human being he is accompanied by another archangel from the orders of the Thrones, Metathronios, which immediately ego-fied with that Spirit-Ego of ourselves to be humanized making the other side of the one and the same coin. You can never find a coin unless it has two faces. So, are we that ego-spirit-self-consciousness of that metathronios ego-fied with us? Are we becoming one? No. Definitely not. Give an example. If I have a candle and I see the flame and I make another candle touch it and meet then I see one flame. Yet, if I make these two candles apart I’ll see two flames. Joining them again I have one flame but after you have two flames though we have one flame in reality you have two flames. So the ego-fied archangel, that metathronios, is not our self and is not the twin-soul as many people think. Why? Though he let us call him he is ego-fied, becoming one, by at-one-ment with our spirit-ego-self-superconsciousness yet he keeps his purity and his identity and keeps it always.
10’15”
We may live our own life in the material body, in the noetic body, and our
psychical body. He lives with us, not confined only in our bodies but living at the same time in its own nature. Now, is this archangels, the metathronios, self-consciousness now, minimized now and becoming smaller to our measures or it is perfect always? Definitely that metathronios, guardian angel as we call him, is an archangel of purity. He had never been influenced by the life of the human beings he’s ego-fied with. Why ego-fied then? To understand, guard, and guide. Guide in what way now? Yes, though he keeps his purity, he reflects everything human without being himself stained or becoming dirty. Think a big, crystal clear mirror. You put in front of that mirror many things. You see them in the surface of the mirror. Nice, good things. You see them on the surface of the mirror. Dirty things. Even you see them in the surface of the mirror. Putting any kind of dirt, dirty thing in front of that mirror you will see it reflected there. Does it make the surface of the mirror dirty? Is anything reflected by a mirror staining or making dirty the mirror? No. Likewise, everything is known to our guardian angel. Our guardian angel is reflecting everything as thought, emotion, and behavior of our present day personality. I say knows everything yet he is not stained. He is not influenced. Now, what’s the role of the metathronios accompanying that ego-spirit, our self-superconsciousness? To keep the records. To keep the Divine Plan. To be in attunement or at-one-ment with the Heavenly Man, the Idea of Man. To keep the models. So, when coming down he’s putting in what we call the permanent atom, which is our spirit-ego-self-consciousness, everything concerning the circle of possibilities and existence of our humanization. So, in the guardian angel we have a perfect noetic body. You have a perfect so-called psychical body. And we have also a perfect image of our material body on which the holy archangels and the Holy Spirit are to build the bodies. Now what about our incarnations and reincarnations?
15’00”
That spirit-ego-self-consciousness of ours is making a shadow and that shadow are the bodies and a time and space created personality. Time and space created personality of a man or a woman which is the bodies and a kind of identity which is our ego, or I-ness, yet colored with that personality. I am George. We are using our identity, our I-ness, our ego, yet I am George. The woman will say I am Mary. I am Mary now and George are time and space created personalities yet having the divine, eternal I-ness colored now, covered now, with the material, the psychical, and the mind body. Now, this independent now I-ness or ego has its own life in time and space. Will get its own experiences though our real I, or ego, is not in need
to have an experience. Our soul is perfect. So is also our spirit-ego-self-superconsciousness but our inner self is allowing its reflection to live its own life. Now who is responsible for the behavior of a present day personality? Our soul-ego-self-consciousness? Now is the father responsible of what the prodigal son was supposed to get experiences? No. There is not any sinful soul. The God in every present day personality God is not sinful. There is not sinful soul. The soul of everyone is perfect without any sin or stain. But yet it lives its reflection to get its own experiences. Then who will be saved, according to the Church, theThis I-ness giving him the self-consciousness is divine. So you must have in mind who is going to return then? Definitely the prodigal son has to return back home which means that I-ness of George and Mary will return and that I-ness is the responsible and has to get experiences. So, we see now the role of metathronios, having the records and the plan, the divine plan, ego-fied with the man is to follow that spirit in its descent. Expression in time and space and keep the records.
20’00”
So, the present day personality is giving, is given, a perfect shape of the noetical body yet the material of it is to be shaped by a human being and his experiences in time and space. Also, a perfect psychical body and yet in it the material to be used to shape it in that form. Do we have two then psychical bodies? Yes. A perfect, which we should be, and the mass which we must shape. Though I have one material body yet you have two so-called psychical bodies and two noetical bodies. The one kept in the guardian angel, and the other, the stuff of it we have to shape it, given to the present day personality. So, what’s reincarnation? Experiences. Many many experiences. Now, the I of George and of Mary must become kind of sculptors. They get the material. They see the model. Make it. Make it as perfect as you can. And enter in it to go to deification. And so from incarnation to incarnation, breaking what we have done, not resembling completely to the model, we are given new stuff, new material body. New stuff. New so-called psychical body to start working in it. And a new noetical body. So we are the spirit-ego-self-superconsciousness having in us the model and the guardian angel ego-fied with us to guard and guide. Guide in which way? Leaving us alone to get our own experiences. Only when we overdo it then the guardian angel is interfering and his interference we will feel it as stings of consciousness. Then and only then when we overdo it the guardian angel is interfering. So, the guardian angel, metathronios ego-fied, keeps the clean records and images and likenesses. Where are they? In us, again, because we are the permanent
atom and everything is in the permanent atom. Our ego, our I-ness, all the time. So, a fellow passes over. The guardian angel is accompanying him in the psychical plane. The same way he was guarding him on the material plane he is guarding him on the psychical plane. Now it is time to show him what he has written and what he should have written. Make the comparison. Casting away even the psychical body later he will be in the noetic body. There again the same guardian angel will guard him and guide him.
25’00”
Guide him. Whom? The soul? No. It’s reflection, the present day personality. And then after getting the experiences that present day personality maybe, if it’s necessary, will have a period of sleep. Maybe no. Then be reincarnated and reincarnated. In putting on the permanent atom now what kind of material will make its material body, it’s psychical body, its noetic body. That means the new reincarnation. And that I-ness now feeling different to the previous one yet one. Feeling not completely responsible for the faults of previous incarnation yet responsible. Will start from where it had stopped its work. It has finished a day at school. He will go back home then next day return to the same classroom to continue its lessons. So every incarnation is a day at school. Are we punished by what we call mistakes? No. If the guardian angel all the time interferes showing us the models what we should do is not punishment. It’s love. It’s care. Now, we spoke about the holy guardian angel. The only one ego-fied, becoming some way one with us. Michaels, Gabriels, Raphaels, Uriels, and all other orders, cherubs, and seraphs are not ego-fied. They are keeping their own nature. They are up workers. They work for the building up of the bodies. They are the Lords of the Elements. In the body, material, its etheric double; psychical, its etheric double; noetic body, and so on, there is one Michael. Billions and billions and billions of Michaels. Yet for every living being, human or of the animal, there is a Michael. The Lord of Light, Fire, and Heat. There is one Gabriel. The Lord of Liquids. And a Raphael. The Lord of Etheric Vitality, Energy, Magnetism, Electricity, call it whatever you like. Call it ENergy. And a balancer, Uriel, who is the Lord of Metabolism in the material body. To put the elements in harmony. And so it’s built, the material body. Who is the supervisor? These are the workers. Most wise, of course, definitely but who is the foreman of all this work done in all the human bodies and the bodies of the animal kingdom?
30’10”
The Absolute Beingness Itself in Its expression as Total Wisdom, Total Love, and Total Force or Might. We call it the Holy Spirit. So, one by
observation, meditation, and realization will come in conscious contact, contact, with these holy brother of ours, the archangels and the Holy Spirit because they were, they are, in our bodies. Only an insane person cannot detect and understand that great work done in its material body but still greater work is done in the so-called psychical body. We said in a lesson that the material body definitely should be built in a kind of mold. That mold is the so-called etheric double. We as researchers after truth should know not only its existence but how to use it. And then after that we should know about the existence of our psychical body and we will find what? We are face to face now with our subconsciousness. And this is our task - to see the nature that present moment we are searching our subconsciousness. We said the subconsciousness is the sum total of the elementals we have created in the past in this incarnation and even in previous incarnations also. So, now what is expected from the holy archangel, our guardian angel, of us to do? Just to understand who we are as the entities which can think, study, and understand. We should just stand before that quality of our so-called psychical body and start work. That means start to analyze our emotions, desires, and of course the outcome of it, our behavior, weaknesses, way of behaving, anger, hatred, and all that, and start, now, knowing the present state of our psychical body and make corrections. How?By being influenced by the perfect psychical body again in us which is not for us to use but to use it as a model to shape the stuff, the psychical stuff, to make it like the bright brilliant psychical body model of our guardian angel. Here’s the role of our guardian angel. Does our guardian angel interfere? Is he interfering indirectly, yes. Directly no. Why not directly? Because even to the present day personality I-ness is given the freedom to decide.
35’02”
We are not toys in the hands of our guardian angel or of any other intelligence. We are free. Free to choose but face responsibilities. This is the duty of every researcher after the truth: to analyze his emotions, desires, way of living, way of behaving and consult, even subconsciously, his guardian angel. When we will get that decision then the guardian angel will help. He’s keeping the records. He’s keeping the purity of these bodies. We see it subconsciously but he is not telling us anything. Follow it or not. That is up to you. You face the consequences. But if you ask me then I will help you. So, the same way we are the noetic stuff. Our noetical body. Now what about the purity of our noetic body? And what about the purity of our so-called psychical body? Now, our noetic body and our psychical body are making what we call our subconsciousness which is the storehouse of all
the elementals we have created and creating every moment subconsciously. Now consciously you have to study their nature and their purity and make corrections. And how will we make corrections? In dis-energizing those torturing us and standing in front of us on our way and replacing them with now consciously created new elementals pure and clean. Now it’s not enough to dis-energize an elemental which is torturing you without creating an opposite elemental of purity to take its place. Otherwise, it’s much easier that elemental which has been dis-energized to be reenergized by you so you have to fill the place of it in your subconsciousness. So, now, we know that we have a material body which by mistake we think it’s ourself yet it isn’t. It’s ours, not we. We have its etheric double which we have to study and work with it. For our material body and for the others. Now I’m speaking about the psychotherapists. You have to study what’s energy. Where from we are getting this energy. And the nature of this energy. Then I said we have to analyze say our behavior.
40’00”
Analyze our emotions, desires, thoughts and see what we can do. You will see all around you that all people are not in the same condition in this life. They have bodies similar in composition yet they are different as personalities. Yet, inside every present day personality of a man or a woman is the I-ness. The ego. Ego now in two forms: Shadow in the mirror of time and space, which are our egoism; and our self reflected in that mirror. Just have this in your mind. We are reflected in our egoism but we are not the egoism. Let us not stand before a mirror gazing on the face of that mirror and say, yes, I am that, showing the reflection in the mirror. We are not that. Cause see if I break the mirror the holy archangels or God is doing it by taking us out of our material bodies in passing over. Yet, we are we. We must have that in our mind. We are not the reflection on the surface of a mirror. This is what we have to find out. So, I have showed ways how to separate and know now the difference between the ego and egoism. We have to do that. There is no other way. There is no other way to free ourselves from the illusions of time and space and being influenced by the egoism. Now, in studying our egoism, that means the behavior of our egoism, not our behavior, what we see? Is the egoism expressing a kind of willpower? On this point I want you just to think. Does our egoism possess a willpower? Do we express the willpower? Is the willpower our nature as gods? Definitely it should be because one of the qualities and natures of the Absolute Beingness is the will. The willpower. Now, is our egoism expressing the willpower? No. It’s expressing what I will call obstinacy and bad habit. Not willpower. We can use the willpower to
change things. In meditation, observation, and realization what’s the truth? We have the willpower to dis-energize our elementals which compose the egoism. Yes, we will meet an obstinacy of those elementals. That means of our egoism but you can cope with that obstinacy which is not the willpower. We express the willpower because if that was not the case human beings would never go forward and change.
45’00”
So, we must deprive from the egoism that obstinacy which we may mistake as willpower and not the willpower to the egoism. Now, what happens if we trace the egoism and certain of its expressions? What we will observe? That the egoism will present itself claiming that it is our self. Here is the point we have just to say no.. No, no, no. You are not me. Yes, you are a creation in time and space of mind in the way you yourself is shaping it and not myself but you are not myself. I am Life and you are not Life. You are a phenomenon in time and space which changes all the time. Is what I call observation and self-realization. That’s what you mean by self-upliftment or spiritual development but unless you do it in this way don’t expect any success. Because one should be definitely sincere with himself. Who? Yes, the present day personality I-ness now tracing the truth and turning its face towards her own self. This is what one sincerely should do.
End Part A
47’20”