1990.02.02 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rohr
00'00" [Opening Prayer]
Our father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. Lead us not into temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory.
O God of life, love, and mercy, enlighten our minds to help us understand your truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen.
01'05”
What is the first question?
[participant's voice:] What is the difference between the spirit and the soul?
Yes. We have given it in previous lessons, but we'll repeat it now. If, you have an open window, and the you have the light of the sun coming down, and it passes through the open window, leaving on the floor, just the shape of the window. The light, from the sun to the window, is our ego-self-spirit self super-consciousness. All a super-consciousness.
Now, the [roid do ich oh?] the idea of man, from the window, to the floor, to the floor, is the same light. Nothing in between. So the light, from the window to the floor, having this shape of the window, is the soul.
Now, the light, again, the light, on the floor, is our present day personality, in the material plane, psychical plane, and noetic plane. Also, the light which is on the floor, the self consciousness, not coming but now resting on the floor, in the various planes, is our ego again. So, we are the light. In the credo, we say ‘God is light’, and say ‘light from light’. Life is light. The nature of life is light.
But now, what’s light? Light is not only what you see with your eyes. Because there are vibrations higher and lower to those vibrations, the etheric vibrations we conceive as light. There is another light in the etheric world, not seen by material eyes. Another light in the psychical world, not to be seen by the material eyes also, and given certain other qualities to the circumstances, there is the mental light.
Still more, I’ll say something else. Everything is light, because the Absolute Beingness is light. Life is light. So, the characteristics of life is light. We call it kinesis. Motion, vibrations. Did we not say in one of a previous lesson that one of the natures of the Infinite Beingness is motion? Motion is light. So, The light we know
05’00”
through our material eyes is not the only meaning of light, because in reality, we don’t see the light as we think we do, the light has certain characteristics, even the light from a material object as the sun. [Gal laxing?] to surfaces and reflected carrying everything on those surfaces. You say, “I see that thing” in this room, you see this radio, light is not only what you see coming out as the light of the sun, but light is in this [onwards?]. You call that light sunshine. Yet the light is in this room again.
If you close windows and everything, light is not coming. But light comes in this room. It strikes on objects, and is reflected, coming to you. Coming to you, those, rays of light, what they do? They leave a little image of the thing on which they have fallen and have reflected, on your eye. Again, that little image is living, a kind of vibration, to the optic nerve, and the optic nerve, again, feels a similar vibration, we said, vibrations, kinesis. Is light. To certain centers of your material brain, it is those vibrations that you interpret as ’seeing the light’.
Now. I think I can speak more. When we have these vibrations in our material brain, we see things all around us. These are the beginning of those vibrations. Of doing what? Raising now our attention. Affecting our consciousness.
Now, you are standing in a corner there. The light is striking on this object here. This object here, according to it’s distance from you, is leaving that image on your eye. Then, that gives that irritation, the nerves of the nervous system, so you say, “I see that object”. How do we see it? In your material brain? No it’s there, it’s there. Who is judging the distance between yourself and that thing there? Where are you? Conceiving what that light is, passing over to you? Can you imagine that you are also there? What if your consciousness, light again, is spread, and [arg ip ant?] the irritation draws your attention to look at that place, and you are where now? In the material brain? Or everywhere you see? Yes, you are everywhere you see. What I do now, as consciousness?
To this conclusion you come after serious and deep meditation, concentration and observation. This very very simple thing of seeing things around us, is so mysterious, and by concentrating, observing and studying,
10’01”
you not only address that, things and light, but yourself even as a present day personality, as an ego with a consciousness, called choose-ness. Not yet self-consciousness, though, your nature is the self-consciousness.
You see things now from a different angle. So, what is the question?
[participant's voice:] What is the difference between the spirit and the soul?
We said, “who is seeing things, and understanding things, and conceiving things and conditions now? Using the light? You. The light on the floor. And let that light on the floor be the material plane, and the psychical plane, and the noetical plane, you wouldn’t express a kind of consciousness, not yet self-consciousness, though something I should have said yesterday, but I repeat it today, consciousness and self-consciousness. [If we press?] today because we have described the difference, if there is any, between the spirit ego self super-consciousness and the ego, again, self super-consciousness and consciousness, which is the soul.
Now, we’ll describe our consciousness, not yet self-consciousness. We have just a shadow of that, self-consciousness. We see as ourself, a creation, in time and space, in a material body. And that’s most, our egoism, and our ego, a dirty body, yet the spine of that dirty body is your real ego. So, even in your present day self-consciousness, you can appear your real self, the real ego, [look at the voices?] that [say?] how to disentangle that ego, that ego from the egoism. Which is the consciousness on the floor. Now, if the consciousness on the floor can be developed into self-consciousness. But you are the inner soul self super-consciousness. And the ego spirit self super-consciousness.
So you have seen, now, three states of your being: The beingness, the be-ing, the soul, and the existence of a being, now existence. The world of existence, you have the conception of time and space. Now we’ll answer another question. What about the psychical plane, and the noetical plane? An a question, is there, “Do we see ourselves in the psychical world, in the psychical plane? Do we see color? The psychical world, the psychical plane?” I add now, “Do we see light, sounds and colors in the noetical plane?”
What is sound? What is color? Now, color is sound and sound is color, it can be called like that from one to the other. Sound is certain rate of vibrations, which
15’00”
give that impression, after vibrating, the acoustic nerve, in our ear, now again, that vibration is transferred to a certain other place in the material brains. So, in hearing, or seeing, is nothing more than interpreting vibrations in our own way. But everywhere are vibrations. God is motion, kinesis, vibrations.
Now, from my own experience, I am a painter, I use the color. I love the color, and can see the colors in the flowers, everywhere, and every shape of flowers and colors. In the psychical world there are more colors that what you have in the material plane, more brilliant colors than what you have in the material plane.
The red color. You can see a red color painted on a surface. Now you can see a red color, light passing through something red. And you see that color. It’s called, I say, ‘light-red’. ‘Light-green’. ‘Light-yellow’. When I say ‘light’ I don’t mean ‘not heavy’, but ‘light’. So. Now you see flowers all around you. [his a sig?] you see them, the petals painted with a paint. Yet you love those colors, very lovely colors. Do you see flowers in the psychical plane? They radiate colors. They give their beauty. They give it here as smell. For those vibrations of the various colors, the various shapes of the flowers are giving an etheric vibration or as I call it ‘smell’. You smell that and other. You are interpreting all the vibrations. Nothing more than that. Is there something corresponding to smell in the psychical plane? Yes. There is the real smell. Nothing in material plane.
Something else. In the material plane, something which is smelling now, withering, loses it’s vibration I interpret as smell. This is not happening in the psychical plane. Flowers in the psychical plane are not withering and not dying. They are there, always. So only in the material plane we have that sense, that changing, that we call withering, dying.
In the psychical plane, are such living elementals, not just shadows of the
elementals of the angels, which are the flowers and [el?] making in life, [call?] there we are having the living elementals in the psychical world.
Now, can you speak to flowers in the material plane? Some can do it, of course, with the elemental of that flower, that spirit of flower, but not [a lot of?] people can do that. In the psychical plane, yes. There’s a kind of speech between all beings there, even the human being, with the flowers. Which is a kind of understanding. What after all is speech? An understanding. Then in the higher planes, you see things clearer than what you see them on the material plane.
20’00”
More living, so you are having this in mind: color, light, sound, exists in the psychical plane. Color, sound and beauty, beauty now exists in the mental world, the noetic world. Color and all these things you consider beautiful, are only in the material plane. Their beauty is in other places.
Now in [another?] lesson I said, visiting shells, what people call shells, are there in those so-called shells, mountains, lakes, trees, and all that, which we have here on the material plane, as a locality, yes, of course. But what you see there? Less light. What makes less light there? The Divine mercy. You see hospitals everywhere in the world. Nicely built hospitals, as a locality. You see in all those hospitals ill persons, you see a nurse closing curtains on the windows to keep more dark the room for someone there who has to rest. Maybe more light will not just let that ill person rest. Who is closing the curtain?
And if I have hospitals in which, you have people there, who create the circumstances in which those ill persons become better, it means that outside of the building there is not, shall I say, a light?
Yes, shells for me are hospitals. Nothing more than that. Created by the Divine mercy. The Father of Mercy.
Now, many times I have painted sceneries. When they have asked me, “What’s that lovely thing?” in this light color, light I mean, my colors now? [said Herr Helsen?] they’re watery. No, are the hills beautiful places? Definitely they are. Nothing is created by the Holy Archangels and the [roarch?] which is not nice and beautiful.
But, what is a hell, as a locality, which are certain subplanes of the psychical world? And the health of those fellows living in them? Now we shall make a comparison. When you go to the country, you see light, trees, water running, so much beauty. You have two people, two persons there, how do they see that beautiful landscape, do they see it in the same way? No, the one will see it as it is, enjoying it. The other, being in his shell, is not seeing anything at all of these beauties, so we have [even] on our material plane, the hell and the paradise, and I said in yesterday’s lesson, no one will go to any hell or any paradise he is not already in now.
25’00”
So have this in mind. Happened, before some time, the missionary. A fellow working for the Holy [?] was keeping some money, to have a week vacation in the mountains. “Don’t I have the right to enjoy the nature? For one week, I have this obligations of working working in a [vap doi?], but I want, for one week, to enjoy, free of any care, in that lovely scenery. As a rich person, why should I live, all the time as a laborer, I get me one… [that’s progress?] I have a room, for a week, I live [charchlee?] there.” I met that fellow later. “Who did you see and what have you enjoyed there?” “Oh,” he says, “Opening the window, breathing the fresh air, seeing the sun seeing the sun coming was a paradise, Daskale.” “Is it?” “Yes”.
“Was it a paradise? Yes, and you had the whole week, enjoy? You had an accident only.” “What accident?”
“A very very rich man, in the next room, committed suicide.”
Why? He was not in that lovely place. He was in his shell of troubles, busy-ness, fears, the fear of losing, gaining…
So, we, in the material plane also, are in a very nice locality, and we are also in our shell, which we create. Which is our shell? Our present day personality. And it’s quality, which is that shell hell for us, the egoism. That’s why I insist that we have to kill the egoism. To free ourselves from our hell.
Now, a man is passing over, to the other side. He will immediately find
himself, according to the law of cause and effect, in that subplane he is already. Who takes him there? His vibrations. Who’ll take him there? The quality of his personality. Who will place him there? His life. There is not any punishing God. Just punishing people. You must have this in your mind. We are where we deserve to be. This is the reality.
So. You find yourself there, where you have built to live. Now, with the same material we are building a palace, lovely palace. If you build a prison and the prison serves earth, iron, cement, wood, same material you are using to build a palace, you build a prison. There is nothing wrong in the material, just what do you build. What’s the material of building, say, a prison, and of a, palace?
The mind, how you are using the mind. What are the bricks from which you build a palace, and you build a prison? Your elementals, which compose your present day personality.
30’02”
Happily, attended, the present day personality by what, the permanent personality, that ego now, self-conscious, the present day personality is a kind of consciousness, we call it ‘waking consciousness’. But, there is much difference between consciousness and self-consciousness. So, you have the present day personality from time to time, is the present day personality a reality or an illusion? Since time is an illusion the from time to time present day personality is an illusion. A body and a certain way of feeling and thinking. If I ask you now, you live now, and you have this name, a body, a name, and the way of feeling and thinking, consciously as you say, I would say rather, subconsciously. Call it consciously. This is[n’t dat?] between that and the self-consciousness.
You are not self-conscious of your mistakes. You are not self-conscious of your way of living. That’s why I say conscious and not self-conscious. So, you are living in the prison you are building. In the self, you have build walls yourself.
So have in mind the quality of the elementals you are creating, is the material by which we can build a palace for us, or a prison. This what I said, “Shell”. So, every man lives in a shell. That shell is what I call his present day personality. Now, who is you are living in that shell? Your
ego.
So, when you change the attitude towards life, you pull down the prison, and the shell you are living in. Is it anything wrong, just to pull down your prison and free yourself? So we give, to kill egoism. So by saying “kill egoism” many many times in some people I though, a kind of, just not liking it.
Now I repeat, “The egoism has to be killed! The walls of your prison have to be pulled down!” To free yourself. Unless you kill the egoism, you cannot, feel self-conscious. You may feel conscious to circumstances, and slave of the circumstances and things. After killing the egoism you’ll feel self-conscious. You will feel who you are. What you are.
So, when you pass over, you simply leave our material body, and you are in our psychical body, as it is. And this, the vibrations of our psychical body, are placing us in the corresponding subpoena of the psychical plane. Nothing more than that.
No police, Angels or Archangels having the records under their arm will catch us and ‘oh, no, no, no, come here! Let us see what’s written here. You have to be there.’ Not subject.
35’00”
Yet, there are some entities who try to wipe you up at that moment, to give you the chance. Have that in mind. Benevolent entities and beings, but not punishing policemen. So everybody finds himself in that subplane of the psychical world which he is already now, his attention being on the material plane.
And I say something else. Nobody is forced to remain in his prison, if he wants to get out of it.
And something else more. And speaking of personal experience. There are not boundaries between paradises and hells. The hell of one, is the paradise of somebody else. And the paradise of somebody else is a kind of hell to somebody else. How you will get rid of this impression, that you are in a hell? This is what the invisible helpers have in their mind always. That the same conditions as in this life.
Now, a man is living in a dirty house, two rooms, [wreathing call just a time?] dirty and everything. He likes it, for the time being. What you have to do, you have to offer him a better house, take him there, see it, and make a comparison. It is by comparison you can make that fellow change.
“Now”, he says, “beautiful house, room, plenty of water, much light, but I prefer my house.” Let him be there. You can not take him out of his hut. If by comparison he will see the difference, say, “yes, I wish I will be here”, “Leave it, come here, sure!”. Angels and Archangels are building circumstances for those who want to change. Now, in your heart, in your heart you are suffering. Maybe I like suffering. So have this in mind, in the same way in the other side, invisible helpers have to show the difference and they will chose, not you.
I had a friend I loved very much, before some years. Karma, again. Was an orphan from father, his mother was working close to 50, brought him up to our old school, of course, he finished several times school. [newan dechete?] told me “Don’t you tell your father, get me in the government, there?” Alright. [Be it?] He was with me. I loved very much [dachalo?], and during our school life he loved me very much. I took him to my department there. Because he was all the time sleeping on the work. [hericlie?] why, we asked him. His mother confessed me that he was eating and going to a coffee shop, playing cards, other than playing cards it was just not as playing cards, passing the time. But even so, that was a bad habit. Going at night at 3:00 to sleep. How pooped he was the next day.
But one night I went to him. Woke up, and found him in that coffee shop, and asked him “why don’t you go to sleep?” Now understand why he cannot work.
40’00”
Rather than I’m covering all the time. Said “Oh… leave me.” What was the life there? Quarreling? Being offended? [eid being fence?] one in need of the other. Repeating repeating repeating this thing. Misunderstandings. Asking excuses. Forgiveness and all that. When he was 22, one day, he was coughing. Definitely he was in a small room full of smoke, and during the winter time, you could write your name on the
pane on the glass with your finger. Such dirty atmosphere. Coughing, I saw blood. [Do sem?] look here, you must go to the doctor. I convinced him to go to a doctor, I took him to a doctor there. After the examination the doctor told me we should be careful. He’s consumptive. When I have to cough you cover mine. When at that time of year was such a case, the government was forcing the family to isolate these people. We didn’t have sanatoriums. So they had to provide him a tent, and somebody to be with him outside the city.
[Doc de doso] pleaded, “don’t inform the authorities” “I have to”. So, he was taken, given a tent, that [city?] there. I was visiting him after the office, bringing him things he needed, he passed over in six months time. Going to the other side. Now I am 76, then I was only 22. When that fellow passed over. Alex. We visited him, there, though that place was pulled down, and in that place of that official, that dirty place, is now a big building. That still exists in the psychical plane. The same people? No. But others, who have passed over vibrating to the same rate of vibrations there. [unint.] Ohhh. He really loved me. And I loved him very much. Come [let us?] make a walk. I wanted to use the comparison method. [don’t chip?] Why you like to stay I said, repeating all these stories all the time? “I like it.”
Now, time, is an illusion. How many years have passed since then? 76 and I was 22. What does he tell me where then, “Are you going to repeat to me every day the same thing? You told me that yesterday. [laughter] Yes, time is an illusion. Don’t repeat it again. Tell your [secle?] made it walk with you. I took him to lovely places I took and ‘you can live in these place if you like’. You can meet these people. And I thought see him “that lovely place” I woke him up.
I repeated the verse he told me of Beethoven. Singing it and living it he hears it. In the other side, thoughts are sounds. There is, however, [unint.] I told him, “look here, see this beauty here”. “Look here, he told me “You brought me here to hear people picking the teams, picking the teams.” “No,” I said. “come on, let me go back, to finish,” he says “our game”. “Don’t you think it’s better to stay here?”
45’00”
Then whats he told me, “Are you not tire repeating same things every time?
You told me these things yesterday?” Somebody said how long we stay there? Nobody is seeking the time of our stay in the other planes. It is just to get our, the sum total and the summary of our experience. Saying that “This period is needed in the psychical plane and then again to be the bar is not correct. And who it [shath?] making those personalities to be the [boah?].
The Divine providence. And be born, where, now I answer another question. And by whom? By people vibrating the same rate of vibrations. And giving us lots of opportunities, which are required for our next lesson. This is the law of karma. Now, do punishing entities interfere? No. We said that “Our Michael, our Gabriel, our Raphael, our Uriel, and so on, left now Samael, he has… [interrupted recording]
So, in giving the next material body, those Archangels will have their vibrations to work with, obeying to the law of cause and effect. This is what we call karma. This is not only for what we call a ‘bad re-incarnation’, what we call also, a ‘good reincarnation’. So, everyone is born in the right place for his next lessons, he has to learn.
In this case, there are not punishments and rewards, one punishes himself and one rewards himself with his actions, dispositions, way of living. Beauty is everywhere in all the universes. But, it is just to be observed and seen and appreciated. And again, I am ready to say that observation is the main thing required. Above meditation and concentration. Did we answer that question? We come to the next.
We answered three question, I believe.
Yes, I know.
It was saying here that the etheric body is the double of the material body, when we have an illness, does it show on both bodies, and when we die does the etheric body, uhh, is pure again, without any damage?
Now, what’s illness? Illness is a phenomenon on the material body. The Absolute Beingness and the Logos and the Holy Spirit are not allowing any interference in the other bodies, even on the etheric double as long as the man is living in that body.
50’01”
So, the illness starts as a phenomenon on the etheric double, before passing to the material body. So, a clairvoyant can feel illness, coming, and work, and save them. How? Seeing the colors of the aura of the so-called etheric double, and one knows what is coming. But seeing, and by feeling, now, you have the etheric double. The etheric double is the mold in which and by which, mind again, the material body is built. And that mold is not only the whole body, but every cell has it’s mold. Every organ has it’s mold. And then, the whole body has it’s mold. And that is the etheric double. The etheric double changing, the same changes are on the material body.
Now, something happens, according to karma, illness, and one foot is amputated. He is losing the foot on his material body. In old times, when the nervous system was not so complicated as in our material body, that foot might grow again. This was happening in [your pain?], but now, of the nervous system, for certain purposes, has developed to the present state, so it’s not easy just to replace it. Replace the material body, yet the mold is there. The etheric double is not amputated.
Though the etheric double after the man passes over tends to dissolve, yet as long as the man is living, the etheric double is [income?]. Many people, after losing a foot, after many years, they are feeling a kind of a pain in the place their material toes existed. Or their fingers in their [ ?] just amputated. They are feeling it just because the esthetic ether, of the etheric double, is there. So, no amputation in the etheric double. Yet after the passing over of the man, that tends to dissolve.
I don’t know what, in other places, in other churches, the people are doing, but when a person passes over, or dies as they say, they light candles, near him. Why? Because in this way, Michael, with that flame, is making the etheric double dissolve quickly.
In Cyprus they have a lamp, a flame, over the tomb for 40 days. Over that period, there is flame like a [just?] to dissolve the etheric double. So, now the psychical body. The psychical body and it’s psychical etheric double. Is a matter substance different to the material body. First of all there is not killing, or destroying, of the psychical body, of a man. Of course those who go through the experiences of a war, seeing blasts, fighting, and all
that, they have it in their mind. These are in their shells,
55’00”
and are repeated and repeated and repeated. So he may hear a [button?]. He may hear a bomb bursting. Killing him? We said not killing him. The [hill-maht?] is that his psychical body in pieces? To see it again, impact? Yes. In, and himself, in him. So nothing can destroy the psychical body. There are no [psytating?] and destroying a psychical body. or a noetic body. There are some war-like people making wars there the same, between the two armies. Repeating the same thing and the same thing and the same thing. Killing, and being killed, killing and being killed, yet, they are there continuing this stupid game.
You meet these things, in the psychical subplanes. Was just to make a description what happens in the psychical plane, you need volumes and volumes of books, but the psychical world is not such as the material world, of how do you call, destruction or decay. Now, are their flowers which are not watered? [Naturning?] way, and dying, withered? For you yes, but not in reality. Because they pass in the cosmic consciousness as something wonderful. Existence, glorious existence.
When I was a boy, I gained my own experience. Not more than six years of age. I found myself self-conscious, in the psychical plane. In a very very beautiful Catholic convent. [Amplygordut?] A certain one. With a friend of mine, was a Catholic monk, priest, invisible helper, himself.
So, the very lovely place, with a crucifix and all that, [kind of ??], an arched window, with stained glass, really lovely lovely place, I could not create as a boy of 7 or 8 years of age, with my thought, so I did not create that. That was there, and it is still there. [for thing ye yap?] there were many many Madonna lilies. Very beautiful. And roses. Who are taking care of them? Providence and the Archangels and all that. Who is taking care of all these things all around us? Without knowing it? I saw at that time as I said, if it’s like just, one of these Madonna lilies, for open and to, I very often, take it, the side alter. And that would be it, before the alter, before the crucifix, I said, where shall we find a vase? Once I brought that kind of thing in my mind, there it was.
That means, thought creates.
Not the hand, material wrought as the hands obeying thought. There you don’t need the hands. Thought creates. That’s imagination. No. Creative thought. You have to get the skill from the material
60’01”
plane, now. This is one of the meditations I’ve given. So I took it, put it in, the lovely vase, a lovely vase, I said, “we need some water”, water was you needed, though it was not needed. Who was doing all that? Go to a long meeting. I was 7 or 8. Now I’m seventy seven. I visit that place. That Madonna lily is there. Lovely as it was. And will be there. ‘Cause I want it to be there. If I get rid of it, I don’t want it, for me that will dissolve yet that is there. It will be the cosmic consciousness. If I think it again and see it, there it is. Things are not destroyed there. But that friend of my told me, “we offer it to whom?” I said “to Christ”. If it was there, and not there, was it not Christ’s? He said, “yes, you are right”. [day-uh-son-dedrozzle?] He said “Don’t pluck flowers, and put them before”, he said, “ the altar, because in reality, whatever there, you can offer them and dispose them to the Infinite Beingness or to the Logos. And that’s the truth.
Said, he is everywhere, you are going to be offering him something belonging Christ of [gift?]
Now in the pictures when they make the communion, they say, “accept what we offer you from your own”. I don’t know what they say in other churches, but, in the Christians, we repeat that. Accept our offerings, we offer you, from your own. Not ours. So, in the psychical plane, there is no decay. There is not the feeling of death. The illusion of the stupidity of killing, it does exist, but nobody kills anybody. Because everybody finds himself killing, yet not being killed. [Stopped?] and cured. No. In the noetical plane, things are very different. The hells are less stupidly built, and the paradises better built, but still I have to say, both paradises and hells in the psychical plane and the noetic plane, are worlds of illusion, with a different meaning of time and space. Influencing people, is what you call, pleasing or displeasing, pleasurable or painful, and so, of course with a different rate, yet the same.
And life, as a phenomena, is taking and interpreting impressions. This is
what we call life. Life is not dark. We are life. When you become self-conscious, then you understand what is the real life, and the different phenomena of life, of course I cannot describe anything more, because there are not words to describe it, and you’ll not be able to understand it, being accustomed only to phenomena in the material world.
But, happiness does not exist in the material plane. Happiness does not exist either in the psychical worlds or in the [metan?] worlds. In this worlds, is what you call temporary pleasure, satisfaction, or displeasure and pain, and all this are illusions.
What is beyond? Not a phenomena of life, but life.
65’00”
And life is happiness. It’s beatitude is the bliss. So we cannot find happiness or anything corresponding to happiness in the worlds of phenomena. But we find happiness in our… we’re the truth in the truth we find happiness. Yes.
How about the mentally and physically handicapped?
Of course. What… We said there, coming to the world, according to what they owe to pay, or what to get the [order?]. Now. What I said is for the psychical healers. Again from my own experience. Because I like to give my experiences, not the experiences from others. If they bring you an ill person, maybe you’ll feel that you like that person or you don’t like that person, of course, [this ego kinos?] you must love everyone coming to you, known or unknown. But, usually people may feel, without knowing it, that they like somebody is coming, and somebody, they don’t like. You should just overcome, overcome this feeling. But, [they bring the servant?], you will do the same thing to all.
And you see, when you give the etheric energy to them, they absorb it, and then using also, your will power, and visualization, you see them cured. Even physical wounds are cured with only touching them. On some occasions, you are feeling these patients, and that comes back to you, you insist “This thing comes back to you”, at that time, insist, see again, fill that fellow with the etheric vitality, most of the energy will come to you by the [cap-ops-sum?]. You have just a healing, not complete, don’t insist, but
don’t give it up, see, some other time. That means give time for karma to be taken.
So, now, I had the question many times, “do we shorten the karma of others, by treating them in this way?” No. Never. If you have the bad habit of what [toos?] suggestion and fearing what you think, you may be affected but you are affecting yourself and not the others or the case. So it is a different matter. Now. Can you take the karma, of beloved ones, or unknown, to you? No, before they have learned their lesson.
What you can take, is, after they have learned their lesson, and remained something, you are not happy, because you are an agent of the Lord of Mercy, and this was, also, the instructions of Christ.
“Shoulder the burdens of others.”
Christians have that in mind. The Hindus do not. They say “Why should we interfere with the karma of others?” These are difference[s] with the Hindus. Christians are urged by Lord to shoulder the burdens of the weaker. But, I said, you can never do it, before that fellow has learned his lesson.
70’00”
Now, when you do that, is a sacrifice for you? This is point I want just to hint, “I love you very much and of course, I got part of your karma [sort-ev-ery?]. But, that karma becomes yours. That’s not his anymore. And love is not sacrificing. It’s mercy. Now reading in the Holy Bible, what Christ said, “I want mercy and not sacrifice, he said that in the Greek language, he said, Christ was preaching in the Greek language, in Aramaic, and sometimes in Latin. He said, [and-ou-zee-doc-e-ou-hee-kee-sia?] “I do not want sacrifice, I want mercy”. And mercy means, love.
Now. Do people owe us anything, in offending us? In doing something, say against us, for which they need to be forgiven? Now the Lord’s Prayer, don’t forget it was given to the Jews and the first Christians. We repeat it because Christ gave it. But for the true and good Christian, it is not necessary the Lord’s prayer. “And forgive us our sins as we forgive those against us”. Do we make a bargain with God? Let the Jews do it.
Let the Hebrews do it. And the Christian Jewish.
Now, after killing the egoism, there is no need from somebody to come and ask you to forgive him, even if he finds that he needs to be forgiven. [eros-bi-as?] of course, “I forgive you”. If you want somebody, to ask you to forgive him or her, and you do that, this is not love. Sometime, things happen, people who thought they have wounded me greatly, they haven’t because I’ve killed my egoism so that to be wounded, feeling my egoism, they say, “yes we have done this, we have tortured you we have done that and that and that even”. Two people passed on the way feeding them when they are starving, feeding them. We do that for children, for my people, [learn?] down to get [mercity?]. Forgive us. Got them up and I said, “No need, I love you.”
I’m sure that you can understand what I said to them. But I said that, “No need to forgive. I love you.” Please, no more connection, you are allowed to do that. Of course you’re allowed. Of course to the Jews he said that. “If your brother has done something wrong to you, you can rebuke him. He may ask you to forgive him once, and then repeating it, and repeating it, many many times, then, send him away, let him be, to you as one of the other strangers.”
You are allowed, because it would be stupid to give people the opportunity to wound you again. Or fight. But, no is feelings. Forget them. To forget them is good.
75’00”
To forgive them? Not necessary. Love them. Yes.
In connection with that question, how do we know when a person has learned his lesson?
How?
When do… o how and when do we know that a person has learned his lesson?
We do that. When he is returning to you it means, he [hasn’t?] learned completely his lesson. By the result of your treating him. Now I had a
case, during these days, they brought me a boy, completely paralyzed, it seems that these persons or this persons, they brought him before some months to me, what happened? High fever, and many many blood vessels broken inside the brain, so that fellow, was like a vegetable, when the brought him to me. His body was growing growing growing but mentally, vegetable. They brought him. I have filled him with my etheric, got that boy, on my knees, and tried dissolve as many as I could of those broken blood vessels.
The boy told me himself, that you have put your hands right inside my head! Was feeling it. It’s another matter. If I feel it warm, yes, then he turned to me, “I like you”. “I like you,” [I said…], and I did. What I have [done] is just to see the centers of the intelligence. That child started seeing me in a different way. I said, move your hand, move your feet, start moving them. And then I came to that, to that, I was not allowed to do anything more. I was not allowed to dissolve any more of these broken blood vessels. Yet there, I had much to do. Giving it, coming back, giving it, coming back.
Then I said, ‘bring him to me after some months’. Somehow they came. And of course I told him I would be near every night. And I help him. That means, absent healing. Was looking in my [eff?] [sunbeam?] I love him. I wanted to make the soul connection. I love yous. Then when they are going to take him away, I said, “what you pay me?”, then he understood immediately and said “Of course I will!” [unint.] Then I kiss him. Thank you. They took him away.
They brought from Hungary a nurse to look after him, they say, who will try by talking, raising his observation, to wake him up. They can do anything like.
They brought [Tian?] yesterday to give him self a [mis-star-tre]. When I said, “Is Santa [ropening?] Can squeeze and do this and that and that, his father said, “he is much, much better”. He needs, a massage, but I am not here for that. I’m only for speech therapy helping you, [unint] but I heard that child in need of. I think that they will spend their money in vain. Never mind. I said, he needs transfer physiotherapy, because, he have that, you do it, you are the father.
I said, ‘Let me try to dissolve more’. I brought him sort of mind-feel and
says ‘Is your hand in my head again?’. I said “yes”. Alright, he says, “I like it”. So. I dissolved some more, more centers there. [Flutter?]
80’00”
Squeezing, walking now better, walking now by himself, [being-holped-nop?] not being able just to move the feet, much improved. I had a doctor there. [Mirn?] What [scheech?] you have done,” he said, I said, [unint.] [he said, ] “Believe that the cannot be re-created the mind-self,” I said, “I don’t care…[unint.]… forget it. I do it. I don’t care what we are being taught at the university. Here, you see this phenomenon.” I said, “what you have learned, is not everything. Things have changed.”
Now, why I told that fellow to come during March again. Because I follow the cause and effect and what people call karma. Why I’m telling you that? Never give up!
But take it again, and again, and again, [unint.] does not allow me? Let him go, let her go, no. I had a case in which, six whole years have passed, until that fellow became, alright. They brought me a fellow, grown up, forty years of age, completely lame, without any cause. Not broken spine, but he could not walk at all. Feet and a heart was like that, of course, I show you cause. He said o they’re issues man. He wanted to get the whole families’ property. Fighting his parents, even beat his mother, “I want that land to be given me.” Fighting with his brothers and sisters, he became mysteriously lame.
When he came to me, I saw the cause and that was in the cure. And I started telling him… I came to [unint.] that you’ll be a priest, I could go to the churches if I wanted. I said, “I think I have to do that”. “I am not coming here to get moral lessons from you sir,” said [Lukiea?]. “It’s my duty to say that.”
He was coming, I said “go, unless we change I cannot do anything to you.” Going and coming every four months for six years, becoming a little bit better and a little bit better, because he was becoming better. Before some time, he came to me. They brought him there, in the wheelchair.
He told me sir, I will tell you something. I have reconciled with my father
and mother, they have given me their blessing, and I reconciled also with my brother. “oh they are poor fellows and you are very very rich, what are you going to do with these things?”. Yes, you are right. You know, my brother came to me and told me, “my daughter wants to work hard, and to study medicine. And, I will, mortgage my house to you, to give her the money to study in Athens.”
Did your brother say that? “Yes”. Your brother has no other children, another point? Hum. They will stay there, they told me, but they’ll mortgage it to me. Is that so? “yes”. How is this house? “It’s all in very bad condition.” They need new glass on the windows and you said that then, I told you his name very poor.
No, you are very poor. He is very rich. He has five children. And you have none, because twice you was engaged, and you broke that engagement. Because, they didn’t promise you much. Humm. Yes, you are right. Now what are you thinking now? I don’t know if it’s my thoughts or your, you planted in my mind. No. I said, “I never suggest anything”. The only thing I do, I say,
85’00”
“Were I in your place, I would do that, or that. I’m not telling you do that or that.”
He said, “Yes I know, I know who you are.”
I said, “all right. What do you decide now?”
He said, “Look here, I’ll adopt her. I don’t have a daughter why should I not have a [radio-on-one?]”
Bravo. I’ll spend money ‘till she comes back. I said “Doctor!”
Without having the house mortgaged to me. On the other side, I’ll make repairs in the house. They need new blinders, because it’s winter. And then.
“Why don’t you adopt all the children of your brother?” Telling him, “Brother, your children are my children.”
And spend for them. Love them, and they will love you. [unint.]
Other three children of my sister. With her, we are not in good terms. So, you have, [etchitrill?] what do you mean? [laughter… unit.] [etchitrill?] They have your blood.
I think you are right, what am I going to do with this money? I would like [thereis?] I don’t know how old I am. And your people are starving…
He got up, from the [ketches?] to me, “Yes I will do that”. Now, you’re working a the garage…
I said to him, “you don’t need this wheelchair”. Why you didn’t do that to me, six years now? [unint.] That we were doing I’m telling, I was doing it all the time, but you are not receiving what it was I’m telling. So Don’t Give Up.
When some case comes to you, it means that karma brought that case to you, and you should never give it up. Some time you will see the results. And love, always. You don’t keep anything yours. You let loving people you are conveying His love. What was our invocation this morning? Clean our hearts to reflect Your love, towards you, and towards all other human beings. Because after all all of us are human beings. In Christ. Are they not we? But a different part?
When you come to God you call [christ-a-mer-i-cia?] that means becoming one with Christ, who is the light which lighteth every human being coming to the world. You’ll find that all those living people are you, in reality.
When you have the consciousness of the see-er in that finger, it’s different. Two different fingers. That’s the consciousness, if you’re telling me self-consciousness in the palm, the palm is one. You are they and they are you.
Now, it’s rather difficult to accept it, being yet under the influence of egoism. The law of separateness. Yes.
What is your opinion of the anthroposophic teachings of Rudolf Steiner?
Yes, Rudolf Steiner was theosophist. He belonged the the theosophical society. What was the theosophical society? They started very, very well, as all other systems are starting. But they started presenting their personalities. Saying to impose their personalities here and there.
Of course, the masters accepted to give a most precious teaching, through a woman who was drinking and not living a pure life,
90’00”
believing the records of the Horts of England. I wouldn’t mention the name. {Probably H.P. Blavatsky} Then you have Annie Besant, an ambitious woman, who got a Hindu boy, she was a little [girl-re-al?], so the irradiance of that boy, {Jiddu} Krishnamurti, took him there to convince him he was the Christ who came.
I know how much Krishnamurti had suffered. He had produced the book “At the feet of the Master”. So, Rudolph Steiner was in theosophy. Then there were [aunding?], Bishop Leadbeater, many distinguished power personalities, started fighting one another, who is representing the theosophist society. The same thing happened with the Rosicrucians, between the two brothers.
So, if a system starts, and the personality presents itself, which we don’t allow in our circles, our circles are clear: The research after Truth. Nothing more than that. Persons come and go. Titles are stupid delusions. The word Daskalos, which means teacher, and it is said in the elementary schools by the boys to their teacher, is enough. And more than enough, even the word Daskalos.
So, we shouldn’t present personality. Krishnamurti. I met Krishnamurti when he was in Athens, when he was delivering some of his lectures. Just karma. Chance, of course not chance, Divine Plan, yes. A general friend of mind said Krishnamurti is in Athens and he’s giving a lecture. Shall we go there? I said, “yes, we will go there”. We went there. [a-nose?] to Krishnamurti in body. Yet he was speaking this five or six or sitting these people. The hall was full. And he was looking here and there. He sensed my aura. He [learnt-of-my-kiss?], came straight to the entrance, embraced me and kissed me, I kissed him, and he took us in the front seats.
We sat there. He gave the lecture, all the time with those fellows over his head, those English people. When the lecture was over, he came to me again, they came after him. And they spoke to him in Sanskrit, so I’ll not understand. And I told him “[bie-go chaog-mayo-chagang?] “ Come on go back home. I said, he said. Of course, we left.
He left them all and went back to India, dissolved the orders and all that, that is divine, he said. They wanted to produce….
[End of recording]