1990.02.16
Daskalos - February 16, 1990 (Parts A and B) Transcribed by RTT
Our Father, Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come. Thy Will be done, on Earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom and the Power and the Glory forever.
God of Life, Love, and Mercy. Enlighten our minds to understand Your Truth. Clean our hearts to reflect Your love towards You and towards all other human beings. Amen.
Today we shall speak about the elementals and their relation to our etheric double of our material body. To the etheric double of our so-called psychical body. And to the etheric double of our noetical body. Whether a fellow either through visualization or subconsciously by wishing having
something creates an elemental whether one can see that or not. Common people cannot see the elementals which they create subconsciously. He is working with his three bodies at the same time. The etheric double of the material body, the etheric double of the so-called psychical body or emotional body, and the etheric double of his noetic body because no elemental can exist unless it has energy or force. A wish or a desire which will create it and some thought. Thinking how to achieve the thing we wish to have. So, an elemental, any elemental, is composed of mind emotion and energy. Etheric vitality. It has these three substances. But now in what quantities an elemental has these three substances or energy. Energy is always the same. A certain amount of energy is in every elemental. And it is the life of the elemental the energy. Now, emotion. It depends how strong is the wish or the desire about something to have it. So, the strongest element in any elemental, the usual kind of elemental, is the emotion. The wish or the strong vibrations of the psychical body. Maybe a passion. A fixed idea. A strong condition we call weakness of the personality. These elementals created, I might say the 75 percent of the elementals ever created, are those elementals Christ mentioned them saying that they are the spirits empty, void. Just like that he mentions it in the New Testament. Spirits. Of course we will not use this name because we use the name Spirit meaning God. The Infinite Beingness.
5’40”
So, most of the people living today as a present day personalities, no matter in which part of the world that they are, called civilized or not civilized, are creating and projecting elementals and receiving them back. Christ says in the Bible, in the New Testament, when a spirit...spirit, he calls it like that. We call it an elemental...is leaving the man it is going around waterless places. By the word water they meant the psychical plane. It then returns back to its home carrying with it seven even worse elementals than itself entering in the man who creates them and projects them. Really its one. But when that one comes back home, bearing new energy from other elementals around, it enters in the body and is located in the etheric double centers of energy, the chakras, and usually they are seven. That’s why Christ says “seven spirits” because located there the one becomes seven. Yet one in essence and in activity. So, no elemental has ever been created and projected without getting a form. But now, what form? It depends upon its nature. Sometimes small children see these elementals just snakes. Moving as snakes. Also, big worms. Even as certain ferocious animals. Always an elemental gets a shape. Never the human shape because the divine man is not allowing that. It gets shapes,
various shapes, various forms, but never presenting itself as a human being. Unless the spirit of a human being gets that and then you don’t call that elemental but elementary. So we must separate the elementals from the elementaries. Those presented in seance rooms of the spiritualists are elementaries , not elementals. Can a spirit in the other side who can lower itself, its vibrations, to our plane get hold of an elemental any elemental and shape it into a human form? Yes, this can be done. But then that is no more an elemental but an elementary having as the inner impulse that spirit. So we must make distinction between elementals and elementaries.
10’10”
So, now when a human being is born believing to the reincarnation, we bring with us a good amount of such elementals, dormant though, in our what we call permanent atom. Dormant. They will not raise up any memory of events which have created them and have been projected. Yet they hold in them the lesson given to that present day personality which has passed over. Because otherwise why should the Absolute Wisdom allow it to exist even dormant in the permanent atom? Dormant. The real elemental, where is it? Either dormant or active in the Cosmic Consciousness. And so we have what we call the common group elementals which already exist before the birth of human beings in reincarnation and which as a group, having thousands of them in it, any human being vibrating at a certain time at the same rate of vibrations awakens one of them. Comes attaching itself to that man claiming revitalization. Now, where is this Cosmic Consciousness you think? Everywhere, at least, on the planet. So, we are in this ocean of the Cosmic Consciousness in which all sorts and kinds of these elementals, good or bad, are found. We are in them, but we are not attuned to them. If we lower our vibrations to their rate of vibrations and one comes, dormant in the Cosmic Consciousness, to be revitalized, reenergized that’s our responsibility now. And it becomes one of our elementals. I can say that 80% of the elementals already exist in the group elemental of that kind. Now, shall we be afraid of those elementals of crime, adultery, and all kinds of vices? No, if we are not attuned to those kinds of vibrations. Now, in this room are found most of the broadcasting programs of various broadcasting stations. Even coming from London, from Europe, everywhere. They are here. We have a radio, a receiving apparatus, and you get attuning ourselves to that program to that kind of vibration and we hear a lecture, music, everything we like. Though everything is here. What matters is to tune this receiving apparatus to those vibrations and you hear them. That’s all. So, nobody should be afraid of these elementals because they are everywhere here. We are in their
atmosphere and they (indecipherable) around us if we don’t vibrate to their rate of vibrations.
15’13”
When we have evil or ill feeling then definitely we will vibrate to that rate of vibration, attracting one of the same nature already existing in our psychical atmosphere, I will call it like that. So we are responsible. Now, a child from birth starts living its own life having in it all the impulses of those elementals he had revitalized or created which are dormant now in the Cosmic Consciousness yet ready to be reawakened and reenergized by that child. So that child is also influenced by the surroundings, the environment, the dispositions of the parents, of the society, of the nation in which that child lives. Yet each one has its own dispositions no matter if he is a Cypriot, a German, a Swiss, a French, or an Englishman, or an American. So there is great, of course, the pressure of the circumstances and the environment yet one has what we call hs own or her own character which that person brings him from where? From the past. And these impulses are where? In the permanent atom. That means in its self-consciousness because when you hear the permanent atom you must have in your mind that that permanent atom is you as an I-ness or as an ego. So you have your own dispositions, tastes, desires, even weaknesses. Even vices. Or virtues. We have that in the storehouse we call our subconsciousness. I had the question before some days from an independent Greek Circle. Sir, everytime we come we create a new you call it storehouse you call it subconsciousness. Of course, no. YOu have created already one, but from each incarnation we make a clearance and then again receiving new stuff. In all these stores there is the change. You have the old stuff you want to get rid of and you have new stuff and this is our subconsciousness. Now, is it from incarnation to incarnation or we can do that any moment. That’s it. That is the work of a researcher after the truth. To enter boldly and come face to face with his or her subconsciousness, seeking, study things, uproot parasites, and plant in their place good quality plants. I’ll put it another way.
20’00”
Dis-energizing what we call bad or evil elementals but you have to replace them with good ones. You shouldn’t leave the space of your subconsciousness empty. You replace with another elemental good this time. Give the place to a new elemental. We should have this always in mind. So, we have to energize our elementals which are undesirable and re-energize good ones in their place. How do we dis-energize the elementals? Most of the people realizing that what they express, say a bad habit, they call it like that, so it’s a living elemental of that kind, they start
fighting it. By fighting it they will be defeated. Because by fighting it they think over it, strengthening it. You have many people smoking. Many times they have decided to give up smoking. Using reason they say, ‘Yes, it is very bad for my health, for my lungs, and some say it’s the cause of cancer in the lungs also. So I want to give it up.” I know persons who decided to give up smoking. They succeeded they say for a month or two. No one more than three months, coming back again. Says “Daskale, yes I want to give it up and of course it’s two or three weeks I didn’t smoke but seeing the others smoking, yeah, I want to have one.” I said is it only seeing others smoking that you want to have one? “No, sometimes when I am alone, yes, I wish I could have one but it’s easier for me to fight it when I am alone.” Yes. Fighting leads to your defeat. This is not only for smoking. It’s for everything else. Drinking, gambling, and all kinds of things you want to get rid of. Yet, how will we get rid of that? Is that possible? Yes. To dis-energize it, not load it with energy fighting it. How do we dis-energize it now? By ceasing to be interested in that. Convince yourself that you are not interested anymore and get the decision. This is the way of dis-energizing an elemental. Any elemental of any kind. Stop thinking it but not only that. Convince yourself that it doesn’t interest you anymore and something else is interesting you instead. Then you succeed. This is the only way. Now, how do we dis-energize now this elemental? By creating a most powerful elemental, our real light, of feeling we are not interested anymore in that.
25’00”
Seeing your elemental now in its place. Let that elemental fight it and you stop thinking about it. If you stop thinking about it that elemental of your disinterestedness is dis-energizing it. This is the secret, not only I said, for smoking, drinking, gambling, and anything else. So, where are these elementals? Yes, we said they are in that storehouse we call our subconsciousness, but where is our subconsciousness now? Somebody told me “Is it not, Daskale, within us?” WIthin us, what do you mean, within us? Within the present day personality, yes. It is within the present day personality and the present day personality is in the subconsciousness but not within you because you are not the present day personality. And the within you is not in the present day personality. So, definitely the subconsciousness and all those elementals are within our present personality and I said in a lesson that at least 90% of these elementals are composing our present day personality. Our present day personality is the sum total of all these elementals. So, we must have that in mind. Our present day personality is composed of these elementals so these
elementals are in our subconsciousness or they are within our present day personality. But not within us. When after practice we come to the conclusion our present day personality or the sum total of these elementals, we call it egoism, is not ourself and we realize that what we call within us is according to Jesus Christ the Kingdom of the Heavens which is within us. Within our being. Not that entity existing in time and space. So it is this we should have always in mind. To make the distinction between the words within us. Now we come back to the present day personality. Subconsciously created elementals, or revitalizing existing elementals, or just having or possessing something around us. First, we must see something to be aware of its existence. You will never desire having something you don’t know. Before, for example, five hundred nobody could dream having a car. A luxurious car, a BMW, or something like that. The only thing he wished to have and ride was maybe a donkey or a horse. Because he didn’t know that such things could exist at that time. So, we must have in mind that we cannot wish having something we don’t know anything about it. What about the forerunners of the inventions? Inventing things. Dreaming things. Now that’s a different story. They want to create them and have them. That is just another thing but common people can never wish having something they are not aware of its existence.
30’10”
Then we come to another point. Thinking the right away. Where are those people not having what we so ardently wish to have? More unhappy than we are now? They didn’t have all those things. Were they unhappy about it? Or maybe they were happier. So, this is the sober thought of a researcher after the truth. WHen he finds that a strong desire, a strong wish, of having something which sometimes may lead a man to theft. Even to crime. He will just think soberly now. “If I didn’t know of the existence of this thing, would I fight having it?” Of course not. What is making me now so impatient? So unhappy not having it. And making me believe I would be happier having it and I must have it, by all means. Either legally and in an honest way, have money and buying it or stealing money to have it or even kill? Seizing it. All this may happen. And, now, we can understand how strong is this elemental. Not sin yet most powerful. Which means these elementals, not being sin, they are most powerful and their aim to make the one created them their slave. That’s why I call them satanic. Devilish. And I said that the sum total of all these desire or emotional elementals are composing our egoism. That’s why I insist all the time that we must kill the egoism because unless we do that we cannot see our ego, our real ego, free from all these illusions, of these elementals. The main thing is just to
understand the difference between our ego, the eternal God, the everlasting God, Life, from the temporary time and space existence always under a change we call egoism. And we make the mistake that this egoism is our ego, our self. So, one of the most important things a researcher after the truth has to achieve is the separation of his ego self, self consciousness, from what he mistakenly calls his egoism. His egoism, yet, he is the slave of the egoism. How do we achieve that? I said always having reason as the light in which we will see the reality and by meditation, concentration, and mainly observation.
35’00”
And I will make allies the observation with the reasoning. This should become a habit to the researcher after the truth or to anyone who wants to have what they usually say is spiritual upliftment or psychical development. There is no other way than studying the nature of the elementals composing his present day personality, the quality of these elementals, and the strength of these elementals. The force in these elementals. So, now let us see how an elemental is created. Once you see something the elementals starts from the psychical body through the sight. A beginning is a wish or a desire. The first wish is to know about that thing. A car for example. You will go approach it, see it, go around the car, see it well, even touch it, see the color see the model. That means studying everything concerning the thing one wishes to have. Now, we have in mind a car. Or we have any other thing. A jewel, a building, a house, possessions. So the first thing is to know about it. Touch it. See it using the five senses. THen it comes the desire of having it. Calling it your own. It exists all around the planet a very strong collective elemental which tends to make human beings its slaves. This elemental of possessiveness and this is the worst elemental under the influence of which are all people living on the planet, living in every nation. You will find in every man just this desire of possessiveness. Calling this or that his own. Possessiveness. Who possesses it? He, I mean we, or the present day personality which is our egoism. We have everything. It’s everything ours. We don’t need anything especially. If we reach that state of realizing our self as the Soul Ego Self Consciousness that means coming to the kingdom of heaven within us. Seek, says Christ, the kingdom of heaven within you and everything will be added to you. Everything will be added to you. Everything you will be able to call it yours or have it. But who now has this desire of possessiveness without never being able to have anything its own? The present day personality. Now we shall study the behavior of our present day personality. And who will study? We, standing behind it checking it,
criticizing it. We will start studying. This is the real aim of meditation, concentration, and observation and not methods by the East leading nowhere.
40’00”
So this is now our work. Well, what do we see by reasoning, meditating, and observation? Observation mainly. That no matter how strong was a wish or a desire of having something when we have it it ceases to interest us. And another wish comes. It’s losing its value. And we want something else. And having that something else still something else. And there is no end in wishing to have or desiring strongly to have. The more we have, the more we want. And the more we want, more troubles, more unhappiness. The more we have, the less we enjoy. Because you don’t have time to enjoy anything being all the time after having and having and having. Money. I had a friend of mine. He was 78. Elder than I am(?). He came to me and said the other day, crying, “Sir, I lost today three thousand pounds.” Now this fellow is very very rich man. Depriving his family and everyone nearly of everything. Very avaricious and stupid. Of course I said alright. You have lost three thousand pounds...you have so much money. He said, “No.” I said how did you lose them, this money. What did he tell me? “I was expecting from this business during these two months to gain thirty thousand pounds.” Yes? “But something happened and I had only twenty seven thousand pounds.” And you lost the three thousand pounds? He said, “Yes, of course. Why not having them all? If we didn’t have that misfortune I would have the thirty thousand pounds.” He lost three thousand pounds because he did not gain thirty thousand pounds and he has gained twenty seven thousand pounds. I said, look here you are a fool. Believe me you are a fool. How much money you have? He says, “Exactly. I don’t know.” And of course he did know. Very very rich. I said how old are you? He was looking at me. “Oh don’t remind me of my years.” I said how many years you will live more you think? He has heart troubles and many other illnesses. He says, “Five hundred.” I said no. That is your imagination. Didn’t you read in the bible what Christ said to the rich man. He said, “No no no don’t tell me that.” No, I will tell you. He said to a man, to a very rich man like you, maybe less rich than you are at that time. He says, “You fool. What you have gathered, to whom these things belong? Tonight they are calling you back, your soul to come back.” I told him how you will take this money of yours when you pass over? When you die. When he heard the word death, he was terrified. Said, “Don’t remind me of that thing.” I said sooner or later that will come. Told him, look here. Don’t you think it’s better for you to stop this stupidity?
45’00”
Which means leave your employees work without being over their head all of the time if you want to have more. I suggest to you to make them sharers to your work. The more you work, the more you will have, and then you will get much more than what you get now. He says, “Yes, of course, I thought of it. Why should I give these rascals more money?” I said, learn to love. To care about the others. Any money you give really for charity you take them on the other side because you change them with love. Unfortunately, this person now in his age and being for so many years after the way he’s living he cannot love. He tries but he can’t. Maybe if he will try more he will be able. Anyway, I am not losing my hope that he will recover. I said get your children and your wife and go to Europe. Go somewhere. All through the hot summers you are sweating, I said, in your office. Why? “But this is much money I will spend.” Spend? How much money you will spend? Will you be able to spend all your money? I’m coming to another point now. All those who have been the slaves of such a devil as the elemental of possessiveness are not easily getting free of it.
47’14” End of Part A