00’00” (B side begins)
So, when you say beliptic. Touch with your fingers where is the liver, obviously, and that entity has to leeave the body.
So, now we know about the centers, the main centers.
I mention now the big in size centers, the smaller in size centers, and the very small centers.
The big in size center is at the base of the spine, what we call the ‘sacred fire’, governed by Raphael and Michael,.
Another big center is the solar plexus. Another big center is the heart chakra. Another big center is at the root of the nose and another one above the head, as a disk.
These are big centers, which give us our qualities, the qualities of the present day personality, as sub-consciousness, consciousness, and self-consciousness at the beginning, later, giving what we call self-superconsciousness -which is not in the etheric double, but extends to the other bodies.
The smaller in size are the spleen, the liver, under the arms. You have them, four. And two, above the shoulders. Of this, I’m not allowed to speak more. These sides, center, are centers of energy for the material body. While the central column - on the symbol of life - is what concerns our present day personality.
So we said the color, depends upon on the development of that present day personality.
Where is our present day personality living in the body? Now, sir, just try to understand, what’s our present day personality?
What is our so-called present day personality? Is our present day personality really ourself? Only we make the mistake that it is ourself, as we make the mistake that we are our bodies. Our so-called present day personality is sum total of the elementals we have created, projected, and have them back.
Where? In our bodies, definitely. And our present day personality is in the material body, in the so-called psychical body, and in the lower Mind-body. We are using sub-consciously in the three bodies.
The material body we know.
5’00”
The psychical body - it’s vibrations, the quality of the vibrations, is what is giving our desires and our emotions and our expressions.
So everyone is using the psychical body subconsciously, without even knowing its existence.
So our psychical body in manifestation, is our emotions, our desires, our weaknesses, our passions.
All that compose our psychical body, not in form but in quality. So have this in your mind.
What about our noetic body? Our lower mental body. That’s also part of our present day personality, the way you are thinking. How we are thinking. What use of our mind supersubstance we are doing?
And I said in a lesson that we make the mind slave of the emotions. Of the passions, of the desires. We make very bad use of the Mind.
And all the elementals created in this way are what we call the elementals - the elementals desire though elementals. They are mentioned in the Bible by Christ, they are evil spirits.
What we should do after using the Mind properly as reason, we as present day personality to study and check our emotions, our desires - the whole
be heavier - hatreds, emnity, feelings of aggressiveness, revenge, and all those qualities of our psychical body.
How we do that now? By making better use of the mind. Instead of making the mind slave of the emotions, and how to serve for the accomplishment of the emotions and the desires, now, we’ll check through the minds we - that means checking whom? ourself. The egoism - will present itself as ourself, but we are not that kind of false self.
So we now have the control, and we use the Mind as a means to know, to check, to criticize, to find the nature of our emotions. That means of the elementals already in our subconsciousness.
And we come to what conclusion now? That our present day personality was - was composed of those elementals and I was making the mistake to think that I am that present day personality.
Then what do I find? That that present day personality is all the time changing. As the material bodies are changing. Yet I am not changing. What is changing in time and in place or space, cannot be myself. Maybe answer, but I make the mistake that I am that personality.
And that personality is just
10’00”
the thought of being the body, a name, sex, and the way of feeling and thinking. But checking all that now, studying all that now, I find that a not-changed center of self-consciousness able to exercise my Divine quality as will, to know, learn and control. And that’s not changing.
So, I classify my lower self now, in two classes: the changeable in time and space and I find that time is an illusion. Zeit ist eine illusion. Creating shadows in what we call time as an illusion, which is the past.
I have now, the present moment which will be the past after a few moments. And what is ‘to come’. As the present moment, which is undefined, and we call it future. What do you find then? There is also a reality behind these illusions, past, present and future - the Eternal Now.
Eternity. Eternity is not an illusion. And what else I found by my research, and everybody will find it, that apart from the illusions of time and space, we are the self, the real self. Not egoism, which is the creation of time and space. Since time and space are illusions, that means egoism is an illusion, because egoism is changing every time.
So now we start understanding who we are. Now why should the composition of our present day personality as it is today. The backbone is eternal. It’s God. It’s myself. But the backbone of it is I.
Then the other expressions, is the present personality in it’s expressions and quality, the backbone is the same tor: I-am. The expressions, I am George, Alex, Mary, Alice, plus the extensions. I AM. god.
Or, I AM I. Can you reach that ‘I am I’, you cannot be a male or a female person. So we find that reality we are not the person that we thought we were, which was the creation of time and space. Which is an illusion. And therefore that present personality is an illusion. So tell me, who will you come to this conclusion, that we are illusions?
The illusion will prove you,
15’00”
that you are an illusion. If you remember your past personality… before many many say things that are believing to the reincarnation, and you’ll find that now, you are George… but maybe you are Ahmed!
Different way of thinking, different emotions… similar but different. But then, you see, you can see the whole life you have past. You say, but, why am I that person? What common thing do I have with that personality of the past? You may see many many incarnations. You will see certain similarities in expression, yet many many differences.
Then I put you the question “who are you now?” Oh, I am George. Now that you know who you were in the past incarnations, what’s your interest in that behavior in time and space? What was common with those incarnations to you?
I - Am. So you don’t care a Ahmed. Or Robert. Or Marius. And then
you find that the past is a kind of dream. But that’s not what you find. If you just start studying things, you’ll find that you are you. Of yesterday, before yesterday, 6 months back, a year back, etc.
What’s the reality? You are you. So even know you can find your present day personality. But have to take off that dress you call personality a name, and a way of thinking and feeling. Because what really counts is that I-ness your ego. Which is god. Consubstantial with the Absolute beingness. Consubstantial with the Logos, as manifestation.
So, then you find, that you are not what you thought you were, but you are something different now. I think many people now, having a kind of fear, which fear? If they have much and they rely on that much, they have riches, possessions, fame, glory, they feel afraid of losing these things. And believe me this fear is great. And the result of it is depriving those persons enjoying what they have. How you to take away this fear?
Then there is another kind of fear: the fear of death. Of losing yourself. Which self? Your present day personality or your I-ness? What you are your interest to? But the present day personality, after some years, will be of no interest to you, as it is not of interest to you remembrance of a personality that has passed. You never of course be interested in your shadow, in time and space.
What you will afraid of? Since you are you.
20’00”
That’s what will interest you. I am, yes of course I am George, I am Mary. You are not that. You are I am I. The self consciousness being able to express itself and take impressions in what we call time and space. Impressions. Illusions.
If somebody will tell you, ‘wake up’ ’Stop dreaming’. But are we dreaming? What do we think that we are? Not dreaming? Life on earth, as it is to say… it’s a dream. Nothing more than a dream. As you find out that all the past, you were dreaming. Sweet dreams? Or bitter painful dreams, but dreams.
What should we have now, to do? We say we are dreaming. And we find
it out with the course of time, by seeing backwards. What are we going to do now? And then somebody will but the question: “why are you came in this life? Why have we been being born? So definitely there must be a purpose behind that, and this is not the present day personality to know it, but you can know it when you find yourself. Your real ego, your real self, your real self consciousness. Now I get from that side someday saying now “do you know it?’
Yes, I do know it myself. And when you do know it, there there no fear about anything, and especially about what we call death, because death does not exist. What exists is the change.
Now, we see behind us this change, I call it a dream. And I say we classify this dream in two classes, and yet these classes to more. Pleasing and painful. More pleasing and more painful. Still more, more pleasing and more painful, desperately painful. What is now wise to do. Dreaming. Now until we reach the reality. The truth. What is the truth? What’ the truth? Did you find it? Again, do I know this truth?
Yes, I know it myself. And everybody will know it someday. This is the truth to find yourself, and know who you are. The self realization of your ego self superconsciousness now. Not simply consciousness. Because what we call consciousness is very limited range of expression and of receiving expressions. But self superconsciouness, you are awakened god.
I didn’t say ‘Absolute self superconsciousness’, because that’s the Absolute Beingness. Not we. Enough for us to reach what I call, self superconsciousness. This we can do. More, I don’t know.
So, what’s the truth now? Living in the way we are living today, slaves of emotions, passions, desires, and afraid of losing this or that thing, by call it mine… all the same. What’s the same? Another illusion.
Then I come to another point. What’s life? Do you call this life? This kind of dreaming you call it life? AnyhowChrist does not call it life. When someone, somebody, Christ, the truth in the words of Christ, Rabonee, I want to come and follow you. But my father and mother are living with so many things they need, they need me, I must be with them. Well I would killed the passover, they die, he said. And then I’ll follow you.
What Christ taught time “Leave the dead bury their own dead, you come and follow me”. Now Christ is calling this kind of life death. I call it dreaming, not death. Well. Is dreaming really satisfying us? Nobody can deceive himself that to day that anything material can satisfy him, if the desires the wishes the emotions, are fulfilled, then he feels tired of them. Yet of something of some depair. So what is left in the material plane? This kind of dream. Can you be bold enough to face the reality, the truth. I tell you the truth is bitter to the present day personality. But very very sweet, to the ego. I repeat this. The truth is very very bitter to the present day personality, to the egoism, that I say we must kill. But to your soul self, to your self-consciousness, it is very sweet. Painful is the dreaming. And ignorance and illusions.
So I am not teaching pessimism now. Nothing at all of that. I’m just teaching you how to make the distinction between real and unreal. Yourself and your egoism. I am showing the real life, and not the shadow of life. So those who are in despair, not being satisfied by life should cheer up and say Happiness is in us in realizing who we are.
Now, I have many Swiss people here and I have noticed many sweet sights in Switzerland. Why you have everything? Just because everything is not satisfying you?
I heard the other day a couple, I knew them, they had come to Cyprus, very very rich, committed suicide. You are asking why? They had everything. Rich people. Why are not these things did not satisfy them?
That they go the wrong decision? Because what right did they have to stop life that they did not understand? By committing suicide, they thought that they would enter into the annihilation that means no pain, nothing, the eternal nothingness. They are be deceived. What will be the result? They will be reborn lame, blind or something like that just to learn to appreciate life. Just because we cannot take the law in our hands.
So one should tolerate life as it is now, to learn the lesson that life will give us. We have to tolerate life so that we will understand what is the true life. Which is your true life? I told you. The truth. Why can you find the truth? You are the truth, when you realize that you are god.
We are the truth. And what is not giving satisfaction is just the illusions and what we make the mistake to think it’s the truth. The next moment we find that it isn’t the truth. Now we have to face life as we have it as phenomenon of life in the material plane boldly and get the decision that everything happening is to give a lesson, and the whole world - the material plane, the psychical plane, the mind plane and everything are ruled by the total wisdom, the total might or power of the infinite absolute super intelligence we call ‘God’.
So what’s our aim? Becoming gods! You can never become something you are not. You awaken yourself in realizing you are god, you are in him and he is in you. If you find that, nothing, nothing is so interesting. Interesting? Since you must live in the material plane, you must try to live properly. Just use the mind to separate what we call pleasing from painful, try to find the pleasing as we have to live in the material plane, because sooner or later we leave it. And avoid what we call displeasing or painful. And of course, do it for the others. Avoid giving pain to others, and try to make their tolerably good and pleasing.
What do we see now around us? Are people around us trying to fill
35’00”
the life as pleasing and giving pleasure to the others around them? Or they do their best to make the life of the others more difficult?
And something else. Shooting. We avoid these persons and shoot we feel ill feeling for these persons. Relatives or strangers. No, because those persons are most in need of our love and sympathy to find their way.
So. We are living now as a present day personality in bodies. In material bodies, psychical bodies, and the name lower mind body. We see that illusions are common to all. The Illusions have created for everyone a false self consciousness called egoism. We make the mistake to think that we are that egoism. So our aim is just to get rid of the illusions and that egoism and find ourself, and as in our present day personality we are the self consciousness god, so is everyone around us. So is everyone around us, man or woman.
So must respect that ego self consciousness in any present day
personality. People are calling thieves, criminals, and giving many many other bad names. So in everyone, we must see god.
This is our attitude now towards life. And what should we express towards all other human beings? Our love or rather its love. Because what we call our love is its love. I didn’t say his love or her love, because God is not male or female. Expressed its love. So, what is this conclusion we reach to?
That Infinite Beingness is the only reality and that we are this reality. The infinite Beingness is live and love. Of course, and mercy. What should we be? We are already life and we should express love. Its love as our love, so you understand the invocation we make at the beginning of the lesson.
God of life, love and mercy. Enlighten our minds to understand your truth. To free us from the illusions. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards every human being, because every human is it. Every human being is our real self. We are not separated as spirit souls
40’00”
you are from the other. We are one in it.
Your questions now:
Q: To truly see the I-am-ness in another person, is it something other than the ethers that is capable of…
D: Excuse me?
Q: If I … we talk about the different ethers, the imprinting ether and creative ether, but if I see the I-am in my sister, am I seeing something different from the ether? Am I using another quality of the ethers?
D: If you use the ether, be the same way you use it, but you’ll use creative ether by your authority now. But I said that in the beginning of the lesson. Definitely, because you will be able to express the creative ether, you also materializations, or rather, self-conscious materializations.
Q: It’s my understanding from the lecture that the etheric double is that which creates the psychical and lower noetic body as well.
D: No, no, no. The etheric double creates the material body. The etheric double of the psychic body creates the psychical body, and the
etheric double of the mind creates the lower mental body. Each body has it’s etheric double and that body is the mould in which that body is created. So you have 3 bodies, you have 3 etheric doubles.
Q: Is that etheric when we are healing on the psychic and noetic bodies are we using the energy of the etheric double of that body to heal that body?
D: Definitely. (OK Thank you, I understand.)
D: How do you use the etheric double of the psychical body when you have a fellow there, and you make a wish, and you have in your heart - not desire - that feeling of helping him? Automatically you are missing the etheric double of the psychical body of them. Because that corresponds to the feeling. And when you are first learning how to do it - that means passing the etheric energy in his body with your hands - just missing the etheric energy of the mind body. Unconsciously. But later we visit self consciously.
Q: In the first chapter of your book you say that meditation on Absolute Beingness will help us develop Power, Wisdom and Total Love. Can you give some instruction on how to meditate correctly?
D: How do you meditate?
Q: Or is this perhaps a theme for tomorrow?
D: There are many many kinds of meditation. Many kinds of meditation. If you followed well this lecture today, I have given all the aspects of the expressions of our present personality. So. Who decides to start meditating? The present personality, or your ego soul self consciousness? Your present day personality ego, acknowledging its own nature, will start meditating. In meditating, you have now two points. The one who tends to learn which is your present day personality and the one which already knows, which conveys knowledge to the other fellow, because I learned the is the case you’ll never be able to know anything. And as you have within you the truth and the real knowledge. But we’ll realize that after deep meditations. How? When you know something, you have the feeling that you always were knowing it. That it was not unknown to you… yet it was unknown to you. “I think I knew it! It’s nothing new to me.” You’ll find that. And this is the proof. But now, meditation.
45’00”
Of course, I’ll not tell you go to the olympics and run and expect to win. Your lesson is to be short of breath. You have just to start knowing you to walk, and walk better, and then run a little, run and run more til we gain strength, then we become a runner, to go there and just claim gold medals.
But you are no, you cannot do it as you are now. So, you start your meditation slowly slowly slowly, regaining powers. Because the mind, I mean the material brain, cannot respond to the vibrations of the MIND, unless they are trained to do so. In the same way, you can practice your body and slowly slowly to do certain things, cannot do them at the beginning. Now, what’s the Mind? What must be the brains? Suppose I tell you outside is fire. Say house is fire. So we light all the sun and all the rest is fire. I get a magnifying glass and a piece of paper and say ‘come in here’ concentrate a few of its rays can you see the paper catching fire? Its similar. It’s fire! That’s fire.
What’s the magnifying glass concentrating rays of the sun? That magnifying glass is your material brain. Use it, make it a magnifying glass…
… Now just pay to attention to what I will saying now. The 5 senses are giving illusions which we mistake as realities. But in reality, our illusions exist….
… What exists in time and space is giving illusions and time and space is illusion. What is not illusion is the absolute beingness….
[end]