1990.01.26 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00'00 [Opening Prayer]
…Father in Heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven, give us this day, our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever.
God, of life, love, and mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen.
01’06”
We said that everything is Mind. Matter is Mind solid. All the universes, the material universe, the so-called psychical universe, the noetic, or mind universe and still all other universes -the heavens are seven according to the church- and we said twenty four, everything existing in these universes is Mind.
So, what exists is Mind as matter, substance, super-substance. These of course are the various kinds of the vibrations of Mind. So, vibrations of Mind, Mind itself expresses these vibrations or, the Mind is the vibrated agent.
We said that the Absolute Beingness is. And the nature of the Absolute Beingness is motion, kinesis, vibration. A characteristics of life itself and all the phenomena of life all around us in all the worlds of the dimension not only on the material plane, are the Mind.
Now, the Mind is, or exists. Now see this thing from a different now, point of view. Mind is, unmanifested Lo-kos, (logos?) in the Absolute Beingness. It is there as the total wisdom of the Absolute Beingness. And also, the total force and love. Unmanifested. And exists, now.
Now we enter in the worlds of time and space - of existence. And exists so that it will be used by the Holy Spirit, the Logos, and the Holy Archangels in creating the universes, and everything existing in the universes.
Now, everything. What do we mean by ‘everything’? Separate being? Separate existence? Yes.
05’00”
Life, to express itself, in itself as the Absolute Beingness in two kinds of manifestations we can understand and comprehend. Maybe in many many more. But the human intelligence cannot conceive of that. And this two kinds of manifestation of the expression of the Absolute Beingness is the Logos and the Holy Spirit. Juan (John) said as Logos, it gives the consciousness and self consciousness -the consciousness, Holy Spiritual. And the self-consciousness, now Logoic.
Now, I see, the Absolute Beingness manifesting itself through the Mind -which is not the Holy Spirit- it’s in the substance and the stuff yet living. The Mind is living. Has a life of itself, in the Mind, because it’s Divine, Holy. So, we have these manifestations. All insist the point with the future give much attention.
What is needed for the manifestation? We must just see it. Can you see, understand, and know, anything in the material universe - in the world of the three dimensions - not having a form? Impossible. Everything existing, whether it is existing in the material plane, in the psychical plane, and in the noetic planes should have a form.
The characteristic of the phenomena of life is the form. And an amoeba has a form, a [debt?] has a form, an animal has a form, a tree has a form, the planet has a form, the galaxy has a form. So everything existing should have a form. It necessarily anything that is, to have a form.
Now, we see now the two sides: being and existing. Definitely no, form is not necessary as solid, as we know it, in the worlds of the spirit, the worlds of the Absolute Beingness. But now what’s a form? You have billions of forms all around us. As I said from the amoeba, to the galaxy.
Can anything exist unless there is a cause for it? Can there be any result without the cause behind it? No. So, do all forms we can know in all the universes, not only the material universe - the psychical the noetical and all, have their cause, their source beyond the form? Definitely. Can we contact that, that source, of any form? Yes. By comprehending, studying, and by attunement to the cause. That means,
10’00”
being able to live in the world of ideas. So have the forms, and the ideas. Plato was the first that spoke of the world of ideas. Now the word ‘idea’ now, has a different meaning to what we are using as ‘I got an idea…’ and all that. What’s now an idea? It is what we said the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness - consciousness - superconsciousness.
Only Infinite Beingness. [You have no idea.]
So everything which exists from the universes and everything in the universes - all the universes - has each cause and obeys a law. And everything must, according to this total wisdom, follow and obey what we call the circle of existence and of possibilities. Studying, seriously, all these things, not only by what we call meditation, even by contemplation and at-one-ment, we see what is, expression of the Infinite Beingness as total wisdom, total love and total power. Mind, energy, these three things can be conceived by human intelligence and I said there are many, many more.
You’ll just keep us, not only believing, ‘cause what’s believing?
Accepting something as being the truth. Is the Absolute Beingness in need of our belief in it? No.
But, it is a necessity for us to understand what is the creation, what are the worlds we are living in, what we are in this world and what we are independently of this world. Then somebody will put in the question about
how we should know that. Now. It’s definitely using the Mind. Using the Mind in what sense? You are already using the Mind subconsciously to satisfy our needs and our desires as a phenomenon of life, as human beings. Subconsciously. Now, you must study the nature of Mind, the way you are making use of it and how will suit and we must make use of it to understand what we are as phenomena of life, in the worlds in which life is expressed.
So, we see now, the use of the Mind subconsciously. But that’s not all. All forms of life are using the Mind subconsciously in various degrees of subconsciousness… the stones, the rocks, the trees, the animals, the rocks, how? Have it? Their receptivity. We can see that in the crystals.
15’00”
Natural crystals, in the mountains. That sensitivity I will call it, a kind of subconsciousness. A piece of iron, left in a damp place, becomes rust. What’s becoming rust? A sensitivity, sensibility that I can see [on earth?] called inanimate form. This is not like [trainsport?] because life is everywhere.
From our point of view we find inanimate forms. Yet life is everywhere. And we find that they, subconsciously use the Mind in a sense we call sensitivity. The iron gets rusty. A piece of glass rejects electricity. A piece of iron and other metals is getting this energy we call electricity. Let us call it receptivity. In the plant kingdom the subconsciousness - I’ll call it sensitivity. Of course the word ‘sense’ has a different meaning now to what we want to know as senses in the material world. In the animal kingdom, that kind of subconsciousness is giving what we call ‘instinct’.
Yet we see other expressions of the subconsciousness, the waking consciousness of a human being and the expression of that, knowing how to use the Mind, after the self realization, to what you call expressing our real, inner self, as super-consciousness, and self-superconsciousness. All these states can be studied from two points of view.
The agent, and the expression. The means by which all these are expressed, and what is behind it, either us being or existence, expressing itself. So it needs serious study. Serious study, which I call ‘concentration’. Then, meditation, each, why?
I have in between now, the ability of the one who expresses and studies, and I call it ‘observation’. Now this is the point you can realize who you are. You can not [sign? detating?] by meditating who is meditating, because it’s subconscious expression. But in observation, you realize who you are. Who is fixing the attention and who tends to know. You can’t be [no-all tension?].
And getting the knowledge, you’ll come to what? “Now” state.
Contemplation. So’s the english has which is not so easy to give us the exact meaning. The curriculum which has much illusions for them. And then, to spread our consciousness, now-consciousness ‘cause what we are learning consciousness of a personality is something between subconscious and self-consciousness.
Yet we are conscious of that and that and that thing, all around us. Yet if we just observe what is going on,
20’00”
we see that, there are not, as we could say, be not conscious of it. The proof? Making the same mistakes. Ah, not to make mistakes, you must have what I call observation - being more careful, being more attentive. Who.
Now we find ourself, beyond different phenomena, before beyond even our expressions. And then, what were the characteristics of our soul-ego-self-consciousness? What I said before ‘contemplation’.
And we’ve got the pleasure, we reach that state I call ‘attunement’. Attunement means attuning yourself to the vibrations of that thing. There are no mistakes anymore. Because in attunement, there cannot be mistakes. We want self attunement, vibrating the same rate of vibration. Tuning. Yes. But. This corresponds to contemplation.
Observing this thing we see that we get a kind of knowledge - I can call it even wisdom - but I have now. You aren’t getting the wisdom - and the object, or the state, or the circumstances, which give me that wisdom. I have now two points.
And this is what I call attunement. But yet, we can express our self-consciousness now, still more. So knowing, studying, concentrating, I come to the state I call becoming. I call it ‘at-one-ment’. I’m with ‘be one’. In being one now, I want you to think “what does it mean, being one?”
And what do I call ‘be one’ without [salvadating?] your self-consciousness.
Now, I tell you, by experience, personal experience. Those who are loving the flowers and all that around, you have a rose-bush. Who can say what are the flowers of that rose-bush? There are so many varieties, so many kinds, so many [kiafs?].
You can wait to see them blooming. Yet, you see a rose bush there. It will take time until that rose bush will give you those flowers to know the variety of that rose bush. By attunement, one in meditation, can concentrate now his consciousness in that bush, see it, with different eyes though, not the material eyes, and know. Know what? Yes, that’s a rose bush. You know that by what I call attunement, to that thought of the rosebush. You cannot know anything more. Knowing what it is that time.
Now, at-one-ment, which is now the expression of the self-consciousness
25’00”
You can never know anything through what I call at-one-ment, unless you keep your self-consciousness. But self-consciousness now, not as a personality. We mistake the present day personality as our self-consciousness. No, it’s the shadow part of our self-consciousness.
Now, you will see that self-of soul-super-consciousness - why should I [unintell.] - because you can see in time and space, you can see that bush, in the space, of place it occupies, and can see it in time. So, by at-one-ment, they [mere a person?] and sitting yourself, in a chair there, you can be in that chair and in that bush.
Because you have the superconsciousness. Not only that, many kinds of rose bushes. What we can see now, through at-one-ment which another fellow cannot see, [unint.] can see the shape of that bush. He has seen. Bush there. Seen it. By at-one-ment, you know everything concerning
that rose-bush. You enter into what I call the circle of possibilities. Round that bush, you can see it full of lovely flowers and you can know which species it is that we have.
By describing this, I want you to understand what does it mean, superconsciousness in a limited place and time. Limited place and time-place [unint.] in time. You can extend it [unint.], it’s flowering. And see the flowers. It is a kind of at-one-ment, having your self-consciousness in limited time and space. No, no superconsciousness at that moment, studying it, is whom? Maybe somebody near with us who we are now.
We said ‘you have the superconsciousness, you can be you [unint.] that person … yet we realize that I, in that bush and knowing that is not my present day personality self. But we call it a ‘super self’, just to make the distinction in reality it does not exist such a thing as ‘superself’. The self is the self.
Now, I put you the question “who are you addressing you sitting on the chair, and being there, because you have the superconsciousness?” This is two places. You can be many many other places to be super consciousness. Ask you: Who are you? Addressing the chair, you give your name “I am [unint.]” addressing you in [unint.]
Who are you now? I - that - in fullness, yet, I-am-I. Will not, in that state, just put your self-consciousness in the time and space present day personality. With it’s weakness.
But you will be in that state of ego self consciousness of your soul.
Now I want you to make the distinction between you - as a personality in time and space - and you, as a superconsciousness as a soul.
30’00”
Now. Point this, because I have studied these things personally. Instead of having somebody to put you this question you can put this question yourself. Knowing that you are sitting on that chair and knowing that you are in that bush. Who am I now? Shall I be, as a self superconsciousness in at-one-ment with that bush, knowing everything
concerning that? And even see that self consciousness of my present day personality - my body, my emotions - and a name, and the sex, male or female - if you want to, yes.
Yet, you are thought. What do I want to say? In gaining what we call superconsciousness, you are not giving up anything, or losing anything, even the weakness of the present day personality, which means, when you see in fullness the circle of possibilities, that bush - the fellow here who sees it only a green little bush you see it - in all it’s beauty, with flowers, colors and everything - yet, you can keep the weakness of your present day personality. Man or a woman.
I like it. But I would like it to be of a different kind, to have a choice: liking, liking more, or not liking it at all. Which it means, even that we are not losing in it. In at-one-ment, and in the superconsciousness, nothing is lost. You’ve got to concentrate even on the weakness of your present day personality, you can vibrate, and vibrate and feel it.
So. Some people have the fear that oh, yes, gaining what we call the superconsciousness, we have just to let go of many other things that we do like now. Have the liking of it. I said no. No fear. Entering in the whole, everything is included in that. Nothing is scattered or destroyed. It is only to have the ability and this gift of making this various kinds of vibrations. That’s all.
Then what you find out? Everything in this creation: matter, sub substance and everything are nothing else but various range of vibrations. Of the Mind. Even the solid matter is a vibrations of the Mind. Are these the characteristics of those vibrations of the Mind - don’t we said, even before, having the Mind express to the worlds of manifestations, the nature of the Absolute Beingness was motion? Motion, as what? As will. What is the will, if it is not motion? What you can like to have and have the will to have it, apart from motion, and emotion - that would give us a sense to the word, ‘emotion’ - so who are our characteristics now? As phenomenon of life, human beings, using the bodies - the material, the psychical and the noetical body - and even our own nature,
35’00”
What is now, our characteristics? Apart from the form? The willpower.
Using willpower in the proper way we can understand what is the total power, as willpower, of the Infinite Beingness. Now, using it in a wrong way, usually living in a material body, in a psychical body, and in a noetic body, we are using these things not in the right way. Can we see this we call willpower - expressed by present day personality, under the influences of those vibrations - I say emotions, desires, weaknesses, and all that?
Yes. We see it as obstinacy. Now the researcher after the truth, in his mediations, will study all of these things by sober mediation and observation. And especially those who will run psychiatric and psychotherapistic centers must know to distinguish between obstinacy and the various expressions of obstinacy, from the willpower. Definitely, it’s the willpower. And burning here, piece of wood, cracking, giving the flame, strong or weak and filling the atmosphere here with smoke, it is light, but it is a dark light of an electric lamp. It’s not the light of the sun. Yet it is light.
So one should study all the phenomena - you said ‘all phenomena around us’ - are illusions. But, behind every illusion is the reality. Is the truth. ‘Cause I meant there is the truth, even the illusion cannot exist if there is not the light, you cannot have a shadow.
The shadow is there because there is the light and the in-between something giving the shadow. So, having that in mind, we must concentrate, mediate. And what we find? That now we’re using the Mind in the proper way, I get what I say - the real knowledge and wisdom.
And, not using the Mind in the proper way, I am all the time in difficulties. In pain. In sorrow. And many times, in despair. Despair, why? Just obstinacy, which is the shadow of the light, is giving him all things to despair. Instead of him and despair, we see the shadow, peer through the shadow to the light.
So starting to meditate, concentrate, again I’m coming to that quality I call ‘observation’. It’s through observation you pierce behind the illusions to see the light. I said the man is so. Some of you have heard it. Everything on the material plane is giving us illusions in space and time. Nothing but illusions. You protest and say ‘no, how it’s illusions? We see things, we touch things, we enjoy things - this and that - we are moving, we living and we are conscious of this and that and that.’
I tell you you will not, cannot rely on what we call consciousness now, because what your consciousness end up - the senses sight, [cartouching?], smelling, feeling, are not enough. [uninit.]
40’00”
If we go to a place and see the sunset. All of us will see the same thing. The same illusion. Then, you call it illusion, since all of us standing near the sea will see the sun becoming reddish, bigger, and ready to dive in the sea. It’s an illusion. The sun is where it is. It is the earth moving. This is what science says. The sun is not rising, getting up in the sky and diving in the sea. What can we also see from the other side? This illusion.
So, what do we see in a light room? Sunshine. Or colors. Roseica the clouds, they are colored - whitish, yellowish, greenish - of course, a painter can distinguish all these things - the other people who say ‘oh, a beautiful sunset!’ - but a painter can distinguish everything.
So I tell you this is an illusion. How can it be illusion, we are 20, 50, 100 persons who see the same things. Definitely. But this is an illusion. Because somebody under those clouds, and placed color were from here, we will not see that clouds, reddish clouds, and yellow clouds, and rosy clouds - you don’t see any clouds and end up hearing [let the like?] off white, as we’ve seen it, [unint].
For him, those clouds will not be so lovely and beautiful in colors. What? I’ve seen people - what’s then the truth? Here - you can by concentration, mediation pierce from the phenomenon and the illusion to the truth. The truth is water exists. Heat exists. Is it evaporation? Then I see the clouds - that’s water. There. Light exists. The place of light now, from the science is such a position, that it gives this reflection, giving me the colors. Do colors exist as I see them? Yes. It’s white color. No, it’s a red, blues, violet, and all these colors - I say ‘no, it’s an illusion! It’s the different rate of vibration that makes you see these colors.’
It’s only one rate of vibration that’s the white color. You can prove that. Color the covers on a bottle. Put in the middle of the bottle, a nail. Just put the lovely colors there. You can see them yes, tell me that is, and you
see what color? White. When it will stop, we shall distinguish the colors again. While mixing all the colors, I have white color. You can try it. I did it many times this or this, is the truth. I repeat it. Get a bottle - rum - just as it is. Put in the center just a nail - from - and paint the colors, all the colors, the seven colors, there. And see the [unint.] round that nail, and you’ll see it white. Until it stops and then, you’ll see the colors again.
So, what’s the truth now. The truth is that we conceive vibrations of ether. And we interpret it as colors. Colors do not exist.
45’00”
The vibrations exist, which we interpret as this or that color, and studying this, we’ll wonder at this. We distinguish in a minute and magnificent way, we interpret those vibrations. I am tell yes, I’m here. You see that lovely tree there. Yes of course I can see the birds on the tree and also the fruit, even it’s orange which lovely orange like orange - I can see them.
Come and let us go further. What do you see now, in a distance. Yes I can see something green. Can you see the oranges on it? No. Can you [help?] it? No. Do you see that’s flying there? No. You cannot see it. Yes. Still further. Then I can see, just the shape of a tree far there in the distance.
Good, what do you see now? Just a greenish spot. And I give you, strong telescope. Say now, come, see through it. That greenish spot… Oh, now I can see the oranges. I can see it if I was there.
Good. What is it… only you cannot see [arpenos?] from the earth, or the air, just caressing that thing.
[end of tape side, recording resumes at 47’45”]
We [are not?] strong telescope. You can see things as if you were there. Yet, what do we see? Can we rely on what we call space, place, [so said?] illusion. How is that done? [Su based on?] telescope. I can see things in a distance as if I was there. They can see things I cannot see without the telescope. What it stood to the sense of understanding the distance?
What’s time now? {unint.] Now, from the phenomena, entering into the reality, we see the changes, and illusions. A fellow come to the conclusion that we live in a world of illusions… yes, we are living in a world of illusions which seem to us as the reality, while, it is not the reality. What is that reality, the truth behind it. The truth in now behind everything we conceive. Now again seeing, what is seeing?
We see a lovely thing, [unint.], where? [unint.] How do you know it’s over there? I don’t know it is that there. What is that there? Do you see that thing? Yes. I say, no, you don’t see ‘it’.
50’00”
[unint.] after a lesson, they were telling me “Daskale, you have started saying nonsense.” I said, ‘really?’ “Why are you telling me I don’t see that thing there, it’s mine!” “Of course, you call it ‘yours’” It’s yours that thing there. And you say you see it, and you possess it, that’s yours. “Yes, it is mine, I bought it.” Very good, you bought it. Well, I tell you that this is not so. The rays of light strike on that object there, and they reflect and come to you. Do you see that thing during the night, how? The light. [You left them out to see?] So what you see is not that thing, that [given section?] of the light.
If I stand in front of you and you are looking at that thing, maybe I will see a little, little tiny image of that thing in your eyes. Yes, even that you [don’t see?]. That little image, in a marvelous way, only God knows, the Creator who created your eyes, is giving a kind of vibrations to the optic nerve…huh..yea.
And then these vibrations create a sensation in certain centers of your brain… I see that thing, no, [unint.] everything I said, vibrations, etheric vibrations and nothing more than that. You cannot say you have that and it’s yours. Its like an illusion. You call it yours, it cannot be yours. “What can be mine then?” Only time. Anything in you. In the [tuestop?] of Heaven who is in you. That’s who you are. The sense of knowing this, shaping it, understanding it.
Now if we study these things, we’ll be one day - “who is that super-intelligence which created our material eyes” - to keep them in good health. What’s the eye? Liquid and membranes and optic nerve. To be
receptive to certain rate of vibrations we call light. We call this sensations ‘seeing’ & feeling I am there. Did you understand what that is doing? I feel I am here. [uninit.] Who, you? Where? Do you mean to say sir, that I am a mysterious entity interpreting all the vibrations in the materially brains? Exactly so. But where am I then? [unint.] - now I say that who taught you about there also. There also outside and inside. “Sir, you make me feel afraid!” “Of what, [unint.]” “What am I then?”
I said, “Don’t ask me. You’ll find, behind the illusions, the truth. Who you are. But unless you do that, you cannot know who you are. Definitely you are not an empty [turgit?] occupying this material body, and even extented.” But your five senses are giving you pleasures.
Something else. If those vibrations created in your material brain are my willpower, extending my personality in you, I will repeat then, you see the thing there, only it isn’t there. What are the Fakirs,
55’00”
And all these so-called magi doing you think? [unint.]… Fakir, magician, what he is doing? Having and instrument of magic [makes shuuuush sound - group laughter] he has it! He got it in his hand, you hear it, [unint.] but, I’ve, he say, cutting himself, even cutting his head off and putting it on the table. And then, putting it back. Some are faint. Some are afraid. They think he’s doing all that.
No. He has the strong power of visualization himself, he spreads his aura everywhere there, he’s imagining doing these things, and you see them. That means he creates those vibrations which make the face you see go out to [unint.] with his thoughts. Just this phenomena must lead us to the truth.
Somebody came and taught me “Oh, people should stop them doing these things [bar?].” [Just hem?] the phenomena will guide you to the truth! Which is the truth? You can make forms. You can make thought-forms from the formless, super substance of the Mind. And these forms are not real, they are illusions. They are real enough to give illusions. So it is better to study all these things instead of rejecting them. Because all illusions, because these are illusions, have behind it the truth. And these illusions lead you towards the truth. That is the archetypal. Now, what’s
the truth [unint.]
Mind is and exists, and we can shape it, give it any form we like. And this is real and not imagination, it is because everybody can see it. This is the truth. Because if one can imagine something that’s in himself or [lives?] that would not mean much. But since others can see it, means he can project it and become visible to others. So these things should better be studied.
So. Now. What do we see, as illusions around us? What do we see? And what do we sense? See and sense or sense without seeing? Feeling? What are we feeling all around us? Illusions, yes, they’re illusions but behind them there is the truth. Because no illusion can exist without there is the truth behind it, as no shadow can exist without there is the light. This is the truth.
Yes, which means that we are living in an ocean of elementals. Of thought-forms. Created by us, projected and coming back to us, or receiving elementals created by other people all around us, with which we vibrate the same rate of vibrations. Look everything is existing all
60’00”
around us, yet we conceive and understand and sense and feel, not only see, everything vibrating to our rates of vibration. This is the truth. And the greater truth behind this: how am I, who can see, sense, feel, these illusions, and can find the truth behind these illusions. Now I’m looking to the things, to know them. Now what are looking, [said me,?] are mine.
This, one should do, in the transcendental meditation of [Mahaleshlms?] is not to reach to that point. But we bought just this! The introspection, looking inside within us to find the one who sees - who can judge - who says “I know”. Using the Mind, as reason, I must study now, why nature they call it, what are my abilities? What can I achieve? So that I see myself, in reality how is this?
Now we are using the Mind super substance not to create now thought-forms, which I either can see them or I cannot see them, or sense them only, feeling them only, but now I have to study myself through introspection. Looking within. Within, where within you? Now we can
understand what Christ meant by ‘the kingdom of the heavens is within you’. Now you will arrive at the real response is that within, and that “within” is not within any part of the material body, yet the material body is in it.
So, you find what is “within” to find who you now are. So, I say again, we have dived into very deep waters. We should come to the surface now. Because we have much work to do in believing in these illusions, knowing these illusions, and governing these illusions we are calling elementals.
That means, start our study in the realms of time and space, [thocometruthra?] time and space are illusions. [Row und dachen, no rouw und zeit?] is an illusion. Did I say that correctly? [crowd: yes]
So. You have to believe in this world of illusions. But now, having to live in this world of illusions, should you live in that innocence, or knowing it, knowing the illusions? It’s very good to know that these are illusions. Because unless we know it, we cannot free ourselves from the enchantment of matter, of time, of space. To realize who we are. But now, we shall see what we are in time in space, in the world of illusion.
Yes, a present day personality, coming in nice material body, whether man or woman, trying to make it seem more handsome and more beautiful
65’00”
This is the human nature. This is an image. [unint.] We need that because [men have taught me that?] you don’t want to be less than to be in shape. Ach! Whether I have here a shape or not, [unint.].
So, we are living in the world of illusions - means she’s right, [unint.]. So we live in the world of illusions. But what are the illusions we should know and try to understand and live with them as long as we have to live in this time and space world?
The nature of our emotions. The nature of the Mind in the various worlds of it’s vibrations. The material world. The vibrations of the Mind we call our psychical body, the in-between etheric doubles, which we should learn to use, the same way we are using the hands. Now analyze and study the nature of our psychical body and the store up in that body of the elementals
attuned [to it?], forming what you say, our present day personality - our subconsciousness. What does it mean our subconsciousness? Our subconscious mind, it’s better to say that that’s a subconsciousness.
So, time to study the nature and the quality of these elementals. And then, what do we find? That we have linked Mind and thought in the higher vibrations to the emotions, the thought [fletts?] of the emotion. This, of course, we are doing day and night and this is the cause of all the suffering of the human people on the planet.
Now, how can we replace them, [unint.], and take away illusions? This is what we should do. Study the nature of our emotions, desires, and what I say the ‘good’ of our emotions - group of our elementals, and see what is the result, in time and space, to that sense of mine covering it and expressing itself that group of elementals as ‘myself’. And we will discover our egoism. And we should boldly, humbly, mind what he says to the Greek history obtained and [unint.] to find that Minotaur, catching him from the horns. The law of separateness and vanity. And [unint.] how kill? Did that hero walk through the maze to the labyrinth unarmed? He was of course in need of Ariadne, the princess of Crete, and sister of the Minotaur, according to the [unint.]. Who is Ariadne now? The present day personality. Who is now the hero, Theseus? The people? What is the knife, to kill it? The willpower. So we need the willpower, cause he would
70’00”
find his way, in the maze, and out of it.
[unint.] note that, she gave him the ball of thread to tie is, unrolling there, and then after killing the Minotaur, just use it to come out of the maze. What’s that? Meditation. The service of thought. Using his self-consciousness - he was conscious of what he was doing to come out. Now what’s in the maze? Only our material body. And the psychical, and the noetical. So, the labyrinth is the present day personality coming out. How is that possible that Ariadne knew everything in the labyrinth [unint] and murdered him concerning the Minotaur, since according to this story, Ariadne was the sister of the Minotaur. Son and daughter of Minos. Of course the story says that after Theseus killed that beast, the egoism, so his sister…. - we should kill our egoism - so that we’ll see we are not the egoism and that we are the Ego.
Another point. Unless you break the mirror, you see your image there and make the mistake that you are that image. You cannot say ‘Oh, that on the mirror is not myself, I thought it was myself all the time.’ I am ‘I’. Not in the shadow in the mirror.
So the story says that Theseus took Ariadne to Cyprus, left her in Dio, and went back, over to Athens. He left Ariadne in Cyprus. Why he left her in Cyprus? We said present day personality is Ariadne. And the Ego cannot carry the present day personality [eh have?] human body. Emotions [pathos wiki?] though, it is through the life in a material body that the Ego realizes who it is. They say Ariadne died, sadly, why they used Cyprus as the center, it was the known world at that time.
Anyhow, seems that all these mysteries and wisdom were known of old times. So. What do we have to do? Realize that we are the Ego. Study and know the labyrinth and the maze. In the present day personality, that jungle we call our subconsciousness. And then do what? Uproot everything else used [lesson?] and put in it’s place to grow something a better quality thing. Uproot parasites and plant fruit trees or flowers. That means disenergizing what we call egoism or torturing elementals and replacing them with elementals creative and useful. And you have fabricate knowing what is the nature of that thing and knowing who we are, who can do it. You shall not only look outside.
So, all the work
75’00”
only researchers after the truth and psychotherapists, I talked with a scientists, everybody living in a human material form now, to know and understand what’s Mind as matter, what are emotions, what are elementals, emotional thought-forms, and thought forms, and have willingly now, disentangle himself from that maze and start making the reasonable use of the Mind in changing conditions. Not only for himself as a present day personality, that’s all the present day personality world around him, but he’s beloved to others. Also [unint.] Even if they call themselves his enemies. He cannot have enemies. Why [unint.] ? Because he knows the truth. He knows that enmity, struggle, taking for us… all these are illusions. Nothing more than illusions. Because never mind how much
we will struggle all around us and call it “our”, we leave these places, and are not going to carry [unint.], nothing of the material things here, not even [unint.].
Really, we can carry nothing. Nothing material. Our money, our possessions, our jewels, everything we love, can carry, not carry it with us? Yes we can. Whatever you love, you will have it. But not that material thing. The one which is in the kingdom of heaven, heaven within you.
So, we become also rich in that way. So, what are our real riches is gaining what I call the skill of visualization. And creating mental images - elementals - and knowing all the other elementals, yes. All the elementals, good or evil, as we call them, are confining us in the other side. We are what we are now as a present day personality. With our weaknesses, with our faults, with our [unint.], that we pass.
So we should be sure what we carry with us. Money? Can we store money on the other side? Something corresponding to money, yes. And the corresponding things to money we can take with us is kindness and service. You can use these things for the other human beings who need it. So we can carry with us, many, many things, leaving behind their dust. You don’t want to take with us the dust. And we can take the thought and our noble emotions.
I said in a lesson, we are day and night building our paradise or our hell with, that means, the stuff we call elementals. To study the quality of of these elementals we are creating, I said, also, that nobody can find himself or herself in any paradise or in any hell he or she’s not already now.
We are changing rate of vibrations only, but we are we all the time. Even as psychical and noetical bodies. Never mind that we leave behind the material bodies. We are leaving it every night and we come back again. It’s of no importance to us when we are out of it. Is it
80’00”
you are using and remolding [unint.] . You are not less happy outside of this material body. Which is getting dirty very frequently and we need to wash it. Very very often. Is our psychical body not in need of washing? That’s more in need of washing, because if the material body we have to
wash it, and take a while in a [unint.]. We have to wash our psychical body every moment. That means in every moment we have to create good elementals, and disenergizing the unnecessary and evil elementals to certain, to the cosmic consciousness.
Those who’ll be here on Monday, we give an answer ‘what’s the cosmic consciousness’. Or ‘the kingdom of heaven within us’. And what we can do. The Mind, and the form, what we call elementals, emotional thought-forms or thought-forms, are the bricks by which we can build our prison or our palace. It’s up to us.
The material is the same. It’s Mind. Pure Mind, formless super-substance of the Mind. Who is responsible? For building a prison, or a palace? We are. So we should be very careful. What we are building, for us. And we shouldn’t complaint to everybody, finding ourselves in a prison cell we have built, we ourselves.
Something else. Those who will be Invisible Helpers - at least I select 2 of you, whether you know it or not - in the course of time you will wake up and realize it.
Because I tell you, you don’t remember anything the morning coming back the material body, some of you are quite awakening in the psychical plane, and you come here [subsurface?]. And is two of you I will use as Invisible Helpers, entering the hells without being afraid of being influence by them. And trying to help people get out of these hells.
How? Nobody is staying in his shell by force. And anyone can leave his shell any moment he decides or she decides is to do so. But they are not me. They are not bound [unint.] hells and paradises. Not hell and paradises, hells and paradises. What the name? Because the hell of the one is the paradise of the other. The paradise of the one, maybe is the hell of the other. It’s a matter of how one feels. Nobody can escape any hell, unless by comparison. And consentment.
Consider this material plane. Unless you compare it - you must compare two things, how will you know anythings around from it? Usually people are contented not knowing another kind of thing to compare it. The have the fear of the change. You will not love it.
Now. I say nobody is forced to stay in a hell - he or she is not. Only just to decide to change. But who will decide? That very question, now we’ll take a case in [unint.]. You have a quarrelsome woman, setting up, doing in the evil habit of trying to find the reasons to quarrel with the neighbors. And the family. And with everybody coming in touch with her. You find many, many such
85’00”
people around you, maybe in your homes. So they have that hell within them to feel satisfied in fighting. In arguing. In counter arguing. And even reaching to the point of making blunders. Which they’re doing actually but they’re blunders. They’re satisfying. So, you have such people, all around us.
We tried to help a lady who has passed over, before, some years. She liked me very much. I loved her very much, she loved me. Meeting her from time to time, to [push trate?], to leave that - not place, the place is good - her condition in her. She finds elementals of her own creation, of old, I should call them enemies? Thank you…. where did you quarrel with in your life… because, here, in the material plane the repetition is not even [sensique?]. In the psychical plane, it’s allowing the [unint.] repetition. You have to go beyond these influences, of repetition, now even in the psychical plane.
Sometimes you have an idea. You say what, and then you see at, and you repeat it, and repeat it, and repeat it. Sometimes, you cannot stop it, even if you want, unless you replace it with another thought. You just notice [that?]. But in the psychical plane, it is more [influence?] this tendency of repetition not only of words, of states of things. Of certain kinds of feelings.
So. This month are ten years, she passed over. And she’s quarreling yet, we can never… I said “for God’s sake, forget…” “No! I’ll [jog?] him! I’ll fix him!” “My goodness, stop it!” No, she comes, and she’s provoking me, she thinks so. We must know, from this life here, how to understand the illusions and disenergize them, and then from now, the use of the Mind - the formless super substance - in doing good elementals.
So. Of these conditions, how much, in what have you, kinds, in
psychology and para-psychology now, what type of truth do they know? By just turning the leaves of certain books we can, by Freud, Jung, Adler, and all the others, and still, there are people their nose on these pages, the study of just, [throwing men in their way?] and study leaving [past I said I said present day?] only these two, worth reading books: the New Testament and the book of their life. Through introspection.
Yes, now you are. Questions? I think you have covered in that field.
[woman’s voice] Please, could you be so kind as to explain the overself? What exactly is the Overself?
[Daskalos] Overself is not existing. It’s a word. What’s the self? It’s the self - the Beingness in us. We can understand it after analyzing and knowing all these phases of the self-consciousness. Sub-consciousness, instinctive subconsciousness, consciousness and super-consciousness. These are qualities of oneself. The only self, there is not oversoul.
[woman’s voice] Because they told me we have three quarters of our being in the spirit world. [repeats]
[Daskalos] One being.
[woman’s voice] One being is in the spirit world. [unint.] in the spirit world, in the
90’00”
psychic world.
[Daskalos] Why the spirit world, why the psychic world? The kingdom of heaven is within you, we are self-consciousness. These are different phases, of kinds of vibrations, expressing yourself. There is no super - super self. Superconsciousness, yes. Consciousness and superconsciousness are qualities, conditions, by the self each one. What did he say? I - am - I. What’s this. Whether that I am I says that, living in a material body and says “I”. It is just the same as, you say, I am - I.
Why don’t I extend it to other… I am George, I am Mary, I am Antony. This extension of ‘I am’ with a name, male or female, is splitting, and we
want to have it back. When you have the I - am - I, who? You’ll answer you, all the time, as a soul. Consiousness as a soul, superconsciousness as a spirit-ego-self superconsciousness. But one you as ‘I’ because if you believe in different kinds it means that we are not all the time the same. We become something else or somebody else. Which is not the truth.
The I self consciousness is always one and the same. And you find it out after looking outside, and within. Whether you see yourself expressed outside, or you see yourself expressed within and within, you are you. No change.
Now, the scope and the place of influence - I give an example. You can minimize the range of your observations. You can [do that six hours here?]. Just this morning now, you want to study, you can enter in all of the [presents?] . [What you you use them?] One of the [perkin?] will be as long as [arot?] they sit. Well you see now, you don’t see the same things you see now, you’ll see sacks full of liquid. Because it’s fresh, you can see them. And you’ll see everything vibrating there. Pulse of Life. [unint.] What’s that? I call ‘steet’, which is the petals of a little flower in a coat. You did not become smaller to that what you are as I - am - I, within the range of receiving impressions, which have changed.
If you are taught to become superconscious, and spread over a city - whole city - and by being superconscious you can know everything taking place - scenery, people, how they are feeling, and that. Did not become bigger. You-are-you. The range of receiving impressions is telling you that you are expressing yourself superconsciously, or subconsciously, or consciously. You are you, always. You…
[94’34” recording ends.]