1990.01.15 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
Our Father who art in Heaven, Hallowed be thy Name, Thy Kingdom come thy will be done, on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. God of Life, Love and Mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings.
We said in previous lessons of the [foo ba?] here, that, everything existing is Mind. And Mind is the will of God. God wanted to express himself in himself, and that expression created the Mind. Which is the Mind in reality? Motion, which is the nature of God, thus something moving, because motion cannot be conceived if we don’t have something to see that something moving. And so forth. One of the characteristics, the nature, of the Absolute Beingness is motion. Motion, or will, is as the same.
So, what we can understand of God, as human intelligence, is that Absolute Beingness is, eternally, everlastingly, beingness, in its multiplicity. As a human body has thousands of blood cells, yet it’s one human body. So the Absolute Beingness, One, has it’s multiplicity in Beings, and these Beings are eternal, everlasting. These beings have never been born, and will never be un-[nitchiated?] or die.
Of course these Beings compose the Absolute Beingness. According to our human intelligence - not of a common man in the street - but as far as a human being can develop, we understand the Absolute Beingness in expression, that may seem creation, in manifestation. Then must see the Absolute Beingness. Manifesting itself in itself, as the Logos. Christ. And also, dynamically, kinesis, or the will-power, now, by Mind and through Mind is manifested as - call it energy. Vitality, Etheric vitality. You are giving many many names.
So, we have now, the Absolute Beingness as a triangle. With three triangles, yet one. See there, in the symbol of life, one triangle yet three.
05’00”
[tofal montair?] The top triangle is what we call God the Father. The Absolute Beingness incomprehensible to our material minds. We are, brains, to our intelligence. Yet we can understand the Absolute Beingness in expression as Logos. Logos, we say Greek word which means ‘manifestation’. So in the manifestation, we have the will of God which is Mind, by which, and by means of which, everything existing that has been created. What’s that ‘everything existing that has been created’? All the universes. The noetic. The so-called psychic, the material plane. The material universe. Galaxies. Solar systems. Everything existing.
So that something will exist even a grain of sand, it is soon the Mind. So matter is solid Mind. Quite solid Mind, because even a grain of sand obeys the total wisdom, the total love, and the total force of energy, and it obeys God as total wisdom, we understand what we say, circle of existence and possibilities.
Any human being using his mind, can see all around him in the universe, material universe, and of course later, when he can do that, in the psychical universe, and in the mental universe, that everything existing, no matter in
which dimension, obeys the circle of possibilities and existence. Only by that can he understand what we call ‘total wisdom’.
So, the Absolute Beingness is. The Absolute Beingness -Logos- is and exists. The Absolute Beingness -Holy Spirit- is and exists. Creating the universes. Now, we said that there are beyond conception of any number Beings, eternal, composing the Absolute Beingness, yet we classify them in certain groups. These are the Archangelic orders. In the Absolute Beingness, there is no distinction in this beingness. They’re spirit-ego-self-superconsciousnesses. Without any distinction. But in the manifestation through the Logos, each one expresses a different nature. And according to the nature these beings are expressing, we classify them as Archangelic orders, of Michaels, Gabriels, Raphaels, Uriels, Seraphs, Cherubs. There are many many others, with whom the human beings cannot come in any contact, and maybe they know nothing of.
The three orders I didn’t mention are the Principalities, The Authorities, and the Thrones. These are, they are the Absolute Beingness not being manifested. The other Archangelic orders are manifested. And they are working in keeping the universes - the noetic, the so-called psychical, and the material universes.
So, everything
10’00”
now we see in order. And this order, we call it total wisdom. Total Love. Total might or force. What is total wisdom in the material plane? In matter, according to the science, the law of cohesion and attraction. Seal of love, cohesion and attraction. Nothing can exist if there is not love. Nothing can exist if there is not the law of total wisdom, as we said the center of existence, possibilities, and of course, probabilities to be studied later, what you mean by the circle of probabilities.
So, we have the universes and what is eternally is God. According to the church God the Father, God the Son and God the Holy Ghost. In the Holy Ghost, we find all the orders of the Archangels manifesting themselves in creation, yet we said that every Archangel, no matter in which order it belongs, each one, a Michael, a Raphael, a Gabriel, a Uriel, billions beyond the numbers are these Archangels, they are Gods. Which means each
one of them has an ego I-ness. Ego self-conscious. They are self-conscious. And so is the human being. Every human being is an Archangel, belonging in the order of the Archangels we call the ‘heavenly man’. Now, from which class is the ‘heavenly man’ coming to existence? Which is really our real nature, as gods, each one of us? Any serious religion believes that. And Christianity, and Christ himself, said that. “Ye are all gods, sons of the Almighty.”
So, out of which order is this ‘heavenly man’? Or the idea of man, according to Plato? is it from the order of the Principalities? Or the orders of the Authorities? Of the orders of the Thrones? It’s an order maybe, in between these three. Why? Because when one of the these beings is to be humanized, becoming and human being, he is followed immediately by one Metathrones, by one Archangels belonging to the order of the Thrones, which [milks?] to the Absolute Beingness to the Father as we say, to form, the other side of the same coin as we say, we can never have a coin and it not have two sides.
So, when an ego-Archangel who is supposed to pass through the idea of man, to be permitted into human being, anyone, is accompanied immediately by an Archangel from the orders of the Thrones, which Archangel is egofied - ‘egofied’ means becoming by at-one-ment one with the spirit-self-consciousness with the outcome of a human being - becoming our Guardian Angel. Every human being has a Guardian Angel
15’00”
in being expressed in the universes, in all the universes.
So, again, entering on having us our nature, Mind - Mind is not our brains, the handful of brains - Mind is the super substance everywhere, which is the expression of the Infinite Beingness, the universes, creating the universes.
So, we see that through the Mind and by the Mind, we come to existence. In being ourselves, in the Absolute Beingness, are you in need of the Mind? No, because a Be-ing in the Absolute Beingness is self-sufficient. Our soul-ego-self-superconsciousness has self-sufficiency. But when we are supposed to obey the will of God, to express itself in itself, and we ourselves, are going to follow that expression through the Logos, then are
in need of Mind, in need of the Mind. We get the Mind from where? So, everywhere and from within us, because as gods, and beings, our nature is also the Mind. So now we get the Mind, through us, and from around us. Because now within the world of existence, we come to the conception of space. And the space must have two things to compare as distance of space.
Or even in what we call in conditions, we have two states to compare distance. Or space in condition.
So, we have to enter in the creation. We have a human body. We have so-called psychical body. We have also a so-called noetic mental bodies. Saint Paul is mentioning these bodies in the Bible in his letters. So, what are these bodies? What can these bodies be? And who is doing things in these bodies? Who is building that creature called man? Because man is a creature now. He’s created. The Bible says ‘let us create man to our own image and likeness’. To whom did the Absolute Beingness said that? “Let us create man.”
Of course to the Orders of the Archangels, he said that, to express their own nature as the Lords of the Elements. So, the expression of each Archangelic order, expressing its nature, is giving us the elements. What are the elements? Are the elements not Mind? Yes… that’s Mind. But Mind in different rate of vibrations. Matter is solid Mind. Or Etheric Vitality is Mind in different rates of vibrations, the so-called substance is again Mind.
20’00”
And we have also the Super-substance of the Mind. And even beyond that, not easily to be understood by human beings as long as they live in the material body. Now we have what do we say the words “all the universes of the various dimensions”. What are these dimensions now? What can you understand the dimensions? We’ll explain.
A point, imaginary point, not only surface, because on the surface, it has to cover space, and even the smallest point, which we see by a microscope, we see it [makun?] So this is the imaginary point, is the first dimension. It’s motion without anything moving. Maybe it is one of the natures of the Absolute Beingness, in self-sufficiency, before being manifested. This is
the number one.
Now, count the second dimension. The second dimension is a representation on a surface, not the surface. Because this surface is material. The representation on a surface of anything of three dimensions. What are the three dimensions now? Anything and everything which possesses space. Has length, breadth and width. Anything we have on the material world, from a grain of sand, the planet, everything on the planet, everything in space we call heavenly bodies, galaxies, belong to the world of the three dimensions. Now we come again to the second dimension. Representation on a surface. We shall compare now the characteristics.
What I’m mentioning to you now is Plato’s Divine mathematics and realities. In a surface we may have everything less motion (kinesis). We present everything on a surface, by drawing it, a material thing. But there is no motion. We can draw a [chichan?] shrine in a picture. It will be there. The place it’s painted. It’s making [us] understand that its that picture in a shrine. There is no motion.
I see from a window, the sea. And a boat sailing on the sea, white sails and everything large. You see it move, move. Moving, you see the waves. You have near it a picture just the same as you see it through the window. By seeing the boat [unint.] you imagine that it is sailing on the waves. But it will be there forever. No motion. Maybe it’s giving to you the sense of motion. You want [to] check you see it. Yet from the window, you see the same thing as it is in the painting. The boat with the white sails moving, sailing. You can see at the waves. You see them white in the sea. You hear the roar of the waves, you see them on the building, white lights. And you say, yes, it shows that the sea is rough.
So, now you make
25’00”
a comparison with something in the world of three dimensions with the world of two dimensions which is a representation on a surface. And what is real for us? It’s what we say the world of three dimensions. We touch it, we move about it, we see things - we are living in the world of the three dimensions. Now, how we are living in the world of the three dimensions?
Through a three dimensional [audio-vout?] the material body. So we live in the world of the three dimensions because we possess for the time being a body of the three dimensions, a material body.
Now what is the world of the fourth dimension? The fourth dimensional world, and where it is. The world of the fourth dimensions to some extent is initiated the meaning of space. Not of place. Because the world of the three dimensions is giving us the world of a place, and space as conception. But who can understand what is space unless one will see what we call place? A place is this room. The earth. The village. The community. How is I said everything there, except place? They occupy space of course. But what space they occupy? Since we know that the earth is moving around its axis, every 24 hours, and judging the volume of the earth, before closing and opening your eyes, you are far away in space, maybe a thousand of kilometers. And the planet is moving around the sun what every year. And the sun, with all it’s family, goes around the center of the galaxy. What is now motion, what is now movement? What is moving, in space?
So, we understand the space locating it into what we call a place. A room. A house. Now, as with the [theo?], all I have, just this room, from the time this room has been built until now, it’s the same. So many cubic meters. Not bigger, not smaller. This is what we call place. There may be changes, but not as a room. From the time it was built on the planet was going around its axis and around the sun, and the sun around, this room as a place is there from the time it has been built and will remain now in time. For many many many years to come. [see bord hon?] and got visitors from year after year, then we assume, it’s a place. What is really interesting the human beings is space or place? Of course place. Not space.
Now we speak about the world of the fourth dimensions, and the five dimensions. Are these worlds in space, or place? In the world of the fourth dimensions do we have what takes place: mountains, trees, lakes, seas and everything that we have on the world
30’00”
of three dimensions? Yes. Definitely, the psychical world, there are everything that exists on the material plane, and still many many many things more there. Which do not exist now on the material plane. And
they existed, and many which may exist later. This is the psychical world. The world we pass over after what we call the deaths of our material body. For some material body dies, every day it is dying. And explain that. A spermatozoa dies to give its place to a child, male or female. The boy, the girl playing on the floor will die to give its place to a young boy or young girl. They will die - that means change - that means change to give its place to an adult. The adult will die to give its place to a young man or a young woman. They will die to give its place to an old man or an old woman.
And science says that after seven years not only a particle of matter is remaining in the body. And some portions every day they die. That means we change. What we call death is the change.
Somebody say ‘yeah, of course, the changeout, we see constantly the change from the spermatozoa, to the birth, to the children, to the young man, we see the change, but we see the man there growing and growing and growing. What about the death of the material body?
Yes. Total change. That’s change. And you are now in the so-called psychical plane. The worlds of the fourth dimension. There is no death, there is change, constant change, and we there see this change, quickly, on the material plane. There is not a change so quick in the psychical planes. And this change on the material plane on this world, is giving us the idea of decay, of dying things, flowers, animals but mean living forms passing to the other dimension. Reality death regarding our self-consciousness is not existing. We had always been a self-conscious spirit egos who have become ego-self-conscious souls, [unint.] so created by the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit and the Logos, into human bodies, who undergo more quickly the change. The change in the psychical world is not so quick.
For those who are living consciously in the psychical world, yet living also in a material body, there are too many on the planet now, living in the other worlds, the beyond, and living the material world [unint.] And those worlds, in the psychical plane are worlds of a place, less the conception of space. So the idea of space is initiated and not of place. Because those who have passed over to the psychical world, they are living in houses the same way they were living in the material plane,
35’00”
with the exception that the psychical world obeys different physical laws that those we have on the material plane. But whatever is existing, in the material plane exists in the psychical plane where? Where are the psychical plane of our planet? In the planet, around the planet, and many many thousands kilometers around the planet. Yet the psychical world shell or paradises of the planet, belong to the planet, and no one who goes to the psychical world, in any hell or in any paradise, anyone cannot escape from the planet. The psychical world of the planet corresponds to the psychical body of the man, to his [mod?].
So nobody can escape from the psychical world of a planet. The psychical bodies of all the heavenly bodies in our solar system are not touching. Now we say this is world of the fourth dimension. It is an [insulated?] what we call space. Yet place is and exists. Houses, rivers, mountains, trees, seas, everything you see here. And most of you live consciously during the night in this plane. The difference is some bring the memory when you wake up in the morning and some do not bring any memory. But yet, you are living consciously in those worlds. Even in what we call ‘dreamless’ sleep, sleeping.
So, when Christ was about to leave the material plane, what did he say to his pupils? “In my Father’s house, there are many many mansions, and I go to prepare place for you.” [unint.] called place. Place for you. Now this place occupies what space? Since we said that our planet is moving around, is the [sacher?] and plane of our planet also moving around? No. No need. Because motion is [dissalent?] to what is motion in the material plane. There is not such a motion as the motion of the ether [ound it?] axis. The we must have it, in mind.
Now, place. What are the laws of the three dimensional world? No, and never any solid can occupy the place another solid is occupying. Can you understand any solid occupying the space another solid is occupying on the material plane? No. But we said space, not place is annihilated in the world of the fourth dimension. Thousand solid things can occupy the same space, space. Without being mixing together. So, things in the psychical world are according to their vibrations.
40’00”
So the psychical world is billion time bigger and better than the material world. What do we know of the material world? More than the one third of the substance of the planet. You said the psychical world is in the planet, around the planet, and many many thousand kilometers around the planet? In what condition there, hells and paradises? Yes, hells and paradises do exist not one hell and one paradise. Many hells and many paradises exist in the psychical world, which is where? Here and everywhere in the space you have located.
When one leaves the material body, passing in the psychical world, he will be in the same environment he was, during what we call a dreamless sleep condition. But now, he’s self conscious there, as he was on the material plane. He meets other people who are there already. He will recognize his beloved those who have passed over, yes. Just this will not make him understand that he left the material plane. Many do not care. They see their beloved ones who passed years before they are. They take things as they are without just questioning themselves ‘I am with them that’s that’
They are not just studying, judging and comparing things. But, some of them do. Some [jetty?] things as they are, only. And if you put the question to a fellow there, ‘you know, you are dead now’. They say you are a fool. I speak to you I touch you I shake hands, even now talking to you, you say I’m dead. You will not believe, those who visit that person find it difficult to explain to them that they have ‘changed condition’ of life.
Now, the fourth dimensional world, as we said, is giving you the sense of place. Yes. So, it has the sense of place - most people do not understand that, because a fellow in London and a fellow in Australia, and a fellow in America, may find themselves in the same place their father is now, in the same room, seeing the same chair, sitting on the chair without knowing that there is such a distance on the planet. So the psychical world is more a world of conception. Those who pass consciously - subconsciously - there, they know the difference of what we call the physical laws of the various dimensions. The same thing is also in the noetical plane, of the five dimensions, and you have worlds of seven dimension to be entered into and studied. There are those who can do that. But how they can explain all this to fellows who do not have self-conscious knowledge of these worlds?
So, to put in an few words, the worlds of existence and being, are worlds of
place and conditions.
45’00”
place in place and place in conditions. Of conceptions. Now, are those worlds not real as this world is real? But who said that even this world is real? You find this world is not real. For as long as one lives on the material world, he is living on the world of illusions. And everything around us is an illusion. So all the worlds, this and the others, are worlds of illusions. And behind every illusion, is the reality. In this world you have to pierce from the illusion to the reality.
Now just, pay attention to what I will say now. The five senses are giving illusions, which we mistake as realities. But the realities are the illusions exist, so the illusions and the worlds are in the worlds of existence, and the realities are in the worlds of be-ingness.
[end of tape side]
So, what exists in time and space is giving illusions. And time and space is illusion. What is not illusion is the Absolute Beingness. The Absolute Beingness even manifested as Absolute Beingness and not as manifestation. And the Holy Spirit again as the Beingness manifesting itself… the manifestations are illusions. That means what’s not an illusion is God. Life. Love. And every manifestation is an illusion.
You are moving with a car. Driving a car. You think you are sitting, and you are not moving. Yet you are driving maybe a hundred and seventy kilometers an hour and you see everything left and right [caument it back?] behind. It’s an illusion. The trees and the houses are there. They’re not moving, yet you see them, coming and going back. Is that not an illusion? Just like that there are so many illusions, yet we live in this world and are satisfied with illusions, we call them realities.
We are living now, in what we call past, present and what we live in we’re going to call future. This again an illusion. What is not an illusion? Life. That we are living. Then you tell me ‘why you call it its an illusion, my living in what you call past, present and future?’ Whatever changes is not real, it’s an illusion. When some time, maybe after centuries, you reach a state of knowing and seeing things in the eternal now, then you understand
that yes, of course. What was I thinking it was real? Living in the material world, now it’s an illusion.
It was not an illusion for me, because I was living in there. But now, what’s not an illusion. The eternal now. Past, present and future are illusions.
50’00”
Now, what are we now as living human beings? Again, an illusion. But give them a name, live in a place, seeing that life and the customs, at that time, at that period of time, feeling that we are English, French, Greeks, Germans, as so many things all these are illusions. What’s not an illusion? That you are a human being.
So our life, as we live it now, is an illusion. “How it’s an illusion, I am English!” Tell me, “I am a German”, “I’m an Italian”, “I’m a Greek”. Not yes, suppose after many many centuries, you can see in time, “Oh, what’s past, I now believe, had that name, and that name, and that name, and that name and that name. Uh hum. Yes. I have lived in that civilization, that civilization, that civilization, in that part of the world in that part…” You know, all that were illusions and you didn’t know it, because I was living at that time, was it not an illusion? I-am-I who can live again any experience I have.
And I said before that, behind every illusion is the reality. Now what is an illusion to a human being and what’s the reality? An illusion is that he has a body, call it his own, changing, changing, changing all the time, until it [loses?] dies, and we, as self-consciousnesses pass to another world with similar experiences. So, the body’s an illusion. What about the psychical body and the [men-not?] noetic body? They are also illusions. But when we live at that time, with those bodies for us, it would be our bodies. They would understand time and space in a different way. And even place in a different way.
So what is not an illusion? I-am-I. I-am-Life. Oh, through the word, those incarnations, I had my misunderstandings, pains, troubles, loving, hating, reconciling, loving again, again hating and all that. [Not?] these are illusions. What are not illusions? I-am-Life. I am love. All the others, everything experienced, is an illusion. It’s gone. Why should we live in illusions? Why? - I heard that question before yesterday. Why you have
been given a material body to live in it?
I said that [sound?] good. A material body we studied and know, you would wonder about the most wonderful work of the Archangels in building your body. “They didn’t ask me to live in that certain material body.” I had just the question from certain people, said “yet you are there.” Said, “Oh, really this is not giving me much pleasure.” It gives him also, enough pain, yes. I said “If you don’t like it, learn your lesson to get free.” “Learn my lesson?” “Yes, you are in the material body to learn what is matter, to become master of matter.” Before learning that, you cannot escape
55’00”
even by committing suicide. Says “yes, I thought that also.” “Raphia” I said, “Most foolish. You cannot destroy something you did not create yourself. What do you know about the material body you are living in it. What right to you have to destroy the work of the Archangelic builders? “ Said that’s how I haven’t seen these things from this point of view to see.
Learn your lesson, which means, learn what is matter. Learn what is emotion. Control your emotions. [The sorry?] yeah, yes, I’m getting very easily angry, even beating and kicking and quarreling. [unint.] You learn to love. Because you are now living in a material body. With emotions, and with thoughts. Why don’t you use the Mind as reason? And reasonable thoughts to control emotions? And get a satisfaction from your life in the material world?
Happily, that fellow was very very intelligent and he got the lesson. That’s so, it means that there is a purpose in life. Of course it’s a purpose in life in the human form and body, because you cannot despise the phenomenon of life. And be given the highest intelligence of self-consciousness as life, since you are life. They didn’t send you to come here, because you are a [made challenge?] you came down here, as a self-consciousness. Try to be alert who you are as a self-consciousness.
Oh, as what? Self-consciousness at the beginning has a human body, a human being, a present day personality to be given, I said, promotion. What? Promotion. What do you mean given a promotion. Yes, of course when you finish class of the elementals is [school good?] pass to
the second class, I said. “But I will not go there and give….to get that promotion, he said, you will get, what do you mean ‘get a promotion?’’
[Austin?] you must take your material body and your immaterial body and control your emotions. And try to live with better, and more thought, and better desires, better disposition. Live a more logical life. You’ll come to a new [circuit?] class, which means, learn how to think. Learn how to live, thinking properly. “What are you doing now,” he said, “getting up in the morning, washing your face, dressing yourself just subconsciously, going to an office, and before going to your office, you are just thinking how you will quarrel and find faults to the other.” “[hell this I find?] this I am doing.” Even insult people, because you are the boss. Somebody will tell you [hard course and that’s up to you?] that life I know how you are living. “huh. What do you mean.?” Go to your office, see things logically, speak with the people in a logical, loving, loving [unint.] Andres. Of course you have it, a living human being like yourself. Best understand that in life, you must change position in [dilush?]. So that you’ll understand what is life as a phenomena. He’s living as you are living, he’s breathing the same air you are breathing, you are in the same room with the [wood tep?] his closed windows because you are afraid of cold, and you are breathing the same air! You have the same rights.
You’re looking at me. Yes, but we are so different.” Said, “no, before the eyes of God, you are not different.” You are breathing, living, feeling hungry,
60’00”
go home to eat, come back, same. From the side of life, you are not different. Change, I said, your mind. Use reason, use thought, allow him to use the thought as reason.
Happily he was an intelligent fellow, in an hours time after we had talked, he changed completely his life, and his behavior in the family, with he [changing?] with his wife in his office, he came after some time and told me, look here. Now I’m using reason. Said, yes. [uninit.] what does this mean this, human brain. What do you mean. Look here. If I put them to share gain, they work, they work more to have more share, and I think we have more profit. I said yes, you are using now not reason but the mind according for your own benefit. That’s better, that what you are doing yes.
Put this scheme I said him, and it will work. And believe me he will get more money by giving them more responsibilities and more power to work more and all of them will be benefiting. Which means, learning to make use of the Mind, even in a cunning way. He’s using the Mind now. Before he was slave of emotions. Now, sees over emotion using the Mind. He will use the Mind in a better way in the future.
So what is the purpose of our life on the planet now? If you a German, France, England, anywhere on the world, it is the same thing. Using the Mind, controlling emotions, and see the reality behind the illusions. And believe me that the blood of every human being has the same color. And the tears from every human being coming from the eyes in time of pain and sorrow again have the same color.
You must have this in mind. All human beings are brothers and sisters. Everything else is an illusion. And if we don’t learn that illusion to see the reality behind it, we will suffer. Suffer in what way? Which is the worst illness? Dissatisfaction. You see very rich people without being able to control emotion and thought. They’ve had the opportunities, and they commit suicide. Having everything that would give them satisfaction or pleasure.
So what is our lesson, now on the planet? To avoid dissatisfaction put in order what we call pleasure, pleasureable, and painful. Avoid the painful, and get what we call satisfaction, and freeing ourselves from the illusions by never underestimating things but never overestimating things also. Keep the balance. You can never keep the balance unless you learn how to use the Mind.
Now, we come to the previous lessons. All our life on the material plane, in the psychical plane and the noetical plane also is in creating elementals.
65’00”
What are now the elementals we are creating? What these elementals are to us? I said, we are creating subconsciously elementals, by those vibrations of the psychical body we called desires, emotions, passions, weaknesses, way of feeling, way of understanding. Every thought, every emotion, everything creates and elemental whether we see it we don’t see it. Clairvoyance can see these elementals. What are these elementals to
us? Christ described them getting out of the man, going out and then coming back. Coming back to do what? To live in us their own life, not our own life. They are intelligent we said, never beyond the intelligence of the man creating them, but they’re intelligent, these elementals. And they form groups. In an instance in the Bible says that a legion was in a man torturing him. Of evil elementals, throwing him down on the ground.
So, what is our aim in life? In learning to create creative elementals instead of destructive elementals, creating angels instead of creating devils. Because, the devils will attack yes, but they’ll attack us also. And the angels we create will benefit others, but will benefit us also. Now, what side? Devils? or Angels? We can classify the elementals into classes: angelic, and satanic.
So, we know that sooner or later whatever satanic we create will attack us. Now, what are these elementals to us? I said your present day personality is the sum total of these elementals, good or evil you create, and the quality of the present day personality of a man is just the quality of the elementals by which it was built. So, that’s why never two men, men or women, have the same character of the same present day personality, because each person is the sum total of his elementals. Good or bad, good or and bad, because it is not only tend bad and only tend good. So the quality of the present day personality depends up on that. But there is something more.
Our present day personality is and the present day elementals which are living in us, in our subconsciousness. Which we have reenergized, and we are reenergizing every day, every moment. By thinking about them, feeling those same emotions, desires, weaknesses, hatreds, and all that.
So, we become the slaves of these group elementals. As a present day personality, we become slaves of these group elementals. We must come to reason. Since we are allowed to use the super-substance of the Mind, and reason, disenergizing them, replacing them and changing what we call our character, the nature of our present day personality. This is the purpose
70’00”
of life in a material body, today. To learn how to be masters of matter, emotion and thought. That’s not what I said before. By studying our
elementals, revitalizing, reenergizing the good ones, and disenergizing the evil ones, as curses, evil emotions, casting them into the darkness.
Now, what other thing we observe, that, in us as a present day personality, we have a storehouse of energy given us by the Heavenly Father “Give us this day our daily bread”. Which is needed, as energetic double, to build our material bodies, and also the other bodies. Also we see one side of this subconsciousness of ours, which is the [spark?] house of God we have, as our elementals who [dod bad?]. Just like hungry dogs, devouring this energy God is giving us, causing us pain, illnesses, illnesses in a material body, illnesses in the psychical body also. Believe me that the psychical illnesses and the psychical pain is worse than any material pain or material illness.
Now, who is responsible for all that? We, because we don’t try to check the condition of that storehouse within us we call the subconsciousness, which is nearly [gentle?] for most people, and try to clean them, so that we will live a bette life. Can we do that? Of course we can. And we have to do it. Are we willing now to do that? Most people, no. Because they are the slaves of these elementals.
What’s the name of these group elementals? Egoism.
That’s why we said we must kill our egoism, or disenergize all those elementals torturing us and torturing those who live with us. Some of these torturing elementals are jealousy, hatred, malice. These are poisons, poisoning the very present day personality having it within it. All the religions came to teach those who are living in those religions, how to get rid of these evil elementals.
Now, for these evil elementals, which is the antidote, which can help us. Love. There is no other antidote. But do people really want to love? Or they feel a pleasure in hating certain people around them? In reality, they are in need of loving. And if they are not loving, it is their own self they are
75’00”
injuring now. You have in Cyprus a proverb saying “The very strong vinegar is destroying the vessel in which it is”. So, who, in reality, is suffering from these elementals in the subconsciousness? The very fellow
who had created them cast them away, and they returned back to him. So don’t sick and excite cruel dogs to bite others, for they will bite you sooner or later. No needs to have wounds in our subconsciousness. More kill them, before they bite us or [the tears?] to please us. This is what happens every day, all around us.
Allowing these elementals of evil - we call them of evil - in us, we are the one who will suffer most. Said “why not disenergize them so we get free of them?” One most dangerous elemental - group elemental - in human beings today, is prejudice. Which prejudice has the poison of hatred coated with the sugar of love. But if poison is coated with sugar doesn’t mean it is less poisonous and dangerous. So prejudice or fanaticism in any religion, in any system of life, is dangerous.
So one should be freed from this prejudicism. Which is the antidote of this prejudicism? All these prejudices? Apart from love? Understanding the truth, and what Christ says, know the truth and the truth will liberate you. So we must be courageous enough to face the truth. Are people willing to face the truth? Most of them, no. If they prefer to suffer, let them not face the truth which is fire to burn or disable.
So, everything will have a [printout?] by them, the New Testament in Christianity, Christ, the God-man who came to the world, to solve his purpose, just only 33 years, in reality only 3 years, gave all the truth for man to find himself. He didn’t have time to save the Egypts, the Hebrews, and the Romans, that was not his mission. And of course, this disappointed the Jews, the Rabbis, and all those who sacrificed him - crucified him. And the man
80’00”
who was the chief reason for his crucifixion, said the truth, “for the nation, it’s better that we should sacrifice a man rather than sacrifice the nation to be slaves of the Romans.” He said that, the truth. But, Christ came to save man from himself. Who is [doubt it goes?] enemy of a man? Ignorance, in his own subconsciousness. Now what is the duty of every reasonable man? A man or a woman?
The Absolute Beingness gave to every human being not only the instructions but the authority to use the super-substance of the Mind,
creating him a self-conscious person. To be a self-conscious person is a great honor. Yes, we are self-conscious, as ego-spirits, we are self-conscious, as souls, but you have been favored also to be self-conscious human beings. And Christ is the light which lighteth every human being coming to the world. Do we accept this light, which is reason? The right use of the Mind? Do we make right use of the Mind? We can do it if we like to do it. And if we don’t do it, it’s we to blame. And we will suffer for it.
So, who is responsible for the misery now in the world, in nations, in communities, in families, in friendships, so many good friendships start in a right way to end in what? Quarrels and hatred. So many people start creating relations, man or a woman, live together, even marry, to end in what? Separation or divorce. Why? Because human beings., men or women, though they can use right thinking, are not doing it. We call them ‘thoughtless’. Why? Since they can use thought, why don’t they use thought? Human beings are using the members of their bodies - feet kicking - not only walking but also kicking, and - in an innocent way in football or something like that - sometimes they use it in a very bad way, kicking people. To use their hands to work, so with [unint.] to create elementals, to use the hands to get skills, and work. Beating. Striking. This is not the aim of the hands, to strike. To beat. To caress, with love, yes. How many do it?
The other day, I was working in a place, there were coming some children, and a lovely little child, because, that child came, innocent, he said, [unint.] outside in the… was coming from the school, I [smoothed?] her. I caught him and asked him his name, and I caress it - he started smiling, laughing,
85’00”
[unint.] That was a male, a boy. Then, he went away. All of the neighbors told me, “do you know that child - I said, “no” - said, “you don’t know him, you don’t know who’s child it is. Why you caress?” That is my child. Any child is mine. Any child I can see and I can caress is my child. said “why should [unint.] be bastards of somebody. “How do you know he is a bastard” I said, “Tell me, you think this boy, because that was not my child, why should I caress him?” And explain to him, of course I didn’t have a chocolate or something just to give the child, if I had that then I would give it. She will say I’m a fool.
Now, you have been given a material body to use it in the right way. Do we use it in the right way? Do people even in sex use their bodies in a right way? Or just for prostitution? That’s what I said, to learn to use the matter, and what’s the use of matter? And to learn to use emotion, emotion only in loving. And loving is not what people think love, because they mistake sex as love. I’m not against sex, in the right way, because God makes two human beings, a man and a woman, co-creators with him, but is sex today for that purpose? Is it just for this reason? Prolonging life and giving health to people? [But, homosexuality?] Is that the good use of sex? Or stupidity and prostitution? You know that divorced elementals making people unhappy and torturing them, even creating the aids, are the elementals of homosexuality? is that the purpose of love with the material bodies? No.
So, the human beings today, by creating Angels, elementals, being under the control of these very bad dangerous elementals, they make the worst use of their material bodies. The worst use of their psychical bodies, and of the Mind. They don’t make any good use of the Mind. Besides enslaving the Mind as thought in servicing the evil elementals. Is this the purpose of the Mind? To make human beings worse than animals?
You would think that if animals would use the Mind, and develop in them a self-consciousness, would make so much bad use of the Mind? So, what’s life now. [unint.] to know how to use the Mind in creating, self-consciously, constructive Angelic elementals. How to disenergize the already existing devilish elementals in us and in the other persons, and cleaning that part of our present day personality which is our sub-consciousness? Or malicious egoism killing it to make our subconsiousness the servant of the spirit? Make our life worth living
90’00”
Because, believe me, most people in the street are not living. When somebody when to Jesus Christ and told him, “Sir, I like your teachings, I want to follow you, I want to come to you, near you, but I wait until my father and my mother pass over, then I come to you.” What did Christ reply? “You come, and leave the dead bury their own dead.” He was calling ‘dead’ those who were living in a stupid way. Now, you are going out and you see people, are they living or dead? According to Christ, most
of them are dead. And living, how? They are living in their hells, because ‘so nice an environment is’. Everything around them they don’t live them, they don’t see them. They are, all the time, inside their shell of hatred, envy, quarrels, their way of living.
Now, people living in a material body are living also in their hells. And their paradises, very few. Of self-satisfaction. Most of them are in their hells, and when they pass over, [unint.] Nobody will find himself in any hell or in any paradise he is not already now. With the difference, shouldn’t not understand first of all that he passed over.
The [visible?] characters need people on the other side to help them. If there is a quarrelsome woman now, just her only care to wake up in the morning and start quarreling with her neighbor, or find a reason, so water passed here or there, and they start shouting, quarreling, quarreling, quarreling…she passes over. If you meet her there, she doesn’t know she passed over. She will have her neighbor - the elemental of the neighbor - she made. And the elemental of the house the neighbor woman lived in. And will shout and shout and shout and quarrel and the other will respond said to that.
So in the psychical plane, we are not face-to-face with our elementals. And they are there torturing us much more. That’s why I say, in the psychical plane, there are hells and paradises. Why do you think we say hell? Hells do exist and paradises do exist and we know that because…
93’37” [end of recording]