1990.02.01
February 1, 1990 Stoa Lesson by Daskalos - “Out of the Labyrinth” Transcribed by RTT
Part A
Opening Prayer
Our Father, who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our
daily bread and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation and deliver us from evil for Thine is the Kingdom and the Power and the Glory, forever.
Absolute Infinite Beingness, God. Everlasting Life, Love, and Mercy. Manifesting Yourself in Yourself as your total Wisdom and Your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand You as the Truth. Clean our hearts to reflect Your Love towards You, our love towards You and towards all other human beings.
Amen
I welcome you to Cyprus. Maybe the most interesting thing for a human being is to understand what is Life. We are living as human beings, but if somebody will ask you what is life can you answer? Could, can life be? And even if I tell you life, Life is God again what you will understand? What is God? What’s life? Now, we are using words in all the languages without really understanding what is or what it might be the meaning in these words. What is God? What’s life? What is love? All these are synonyms. Now, by using our mind, of course the pansympantic mind, making it our own, by using it properly by concentrating and observing things we can come out of this labyrinth, out of this maze, of ignorance. You will but why there should be ignorance? Of course this is something in the human nature but what is most, most encouraging is that by using the mind as we say consciously we can come out of this maze and we can say that we know. But doing that subconsciously you are expressing a self who knows. Who can concentrate. Who can meditate. Who can use the mind. Then we come to another point: what’s the mind? What are these means I am using to know? Then again to know what? It’s just something that needs much study.
5’00”
What can I know? What is everything around me? This I can know. But who am I who can know this or that thing? So meditation starts from the very beginning and everybody can do it if he or she is willing to do it. So there is not any mystery, a secret way. What we need is to exercise our divine nature of observation, concentration, willpower and come out of ignorance. Willpower. What’s willpower again? What do we find out after observation and meditation? That we have and we can get what we call the knowledge partly and then continuing more accurate, I would say. At the beginning we don’t get things, as I would say, accurately. And we need to concentrate. And we say why? Why can we not get things from the very
beginning accurately? Correctly? Because the human nature is to just be in a hurry. To get to conclusions. So we have to overcome this weakness of our human nature. And of course an instructor will tell you think slowly. Don’t jump, don’t rush. Concentrate. Now it comes, the point that you will use your divine nature of observation. By observation, looking out, you can learn everything. Looking within you can learn what you are. To make your study on your own self. So, so that all these things will happen it means we are living and that can be life. Now we came to a point: what’s life? We can study life all around us. And I am telling you everything is life and everything is living. There is not such a thing as death. Because if death existed or exists it means that God cannot be immortal and everlasting. So what we call death is the change. There is not something like annihilation of our so called self-consciousness. Now we come to another point: what is it to be conscious in life? Now it needs much concentration and observation. Be conscious of something, of the existence of something, and subconsciously to know that I am what I am who am able to know. So, it needs much much attention, concentration, and our divine nature of observing, observation. But now again what is observation? We shall see it not from the outside things but from the inner meaning and power of it. To observe is our divine nature and it is what we call the nature of our selfhood.
10’00”
What’s selfhood now? Do we say self-consciousness? No. Self-conscious expresses the selfhood but the selfhood is common. What we call selfhood is the nature of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness. Incomprehensible way of selfhood for us, limited now in a personality. Then we have it in expression what I will call the Logos-Selfhood. Not logoic. The Logos Selfhood which is common. What are the characteristics of this Logos Selfhood, which is our nature, and we must find it out by using the mind. What is this Logos Selfhood? Now we should try just to see the meaning in the words. Somebody will say the Total Wisdom. Definitely it’s the nature of the selfhood. The almightiness. Of course it is. What is more important is Love. Now what’s Love? We are using the words everyday but what do these words mean to us? And how can we just study these, the nature which is behind all these words? What is Love in matter, the material world? We say God is Love and Love is everywhere, either not manifested or manifested Love. Now let us come to the orthodox science, what the people find out the scientists. If I put to a fellow what’s cohesion? What can he tell me? Unless there is not this law of cohesion is that not what we call matter would not exist. Attraction. What’s attraction? What is this force, this great
power? We can just now detect by observation and meditation studying things in the gross material world all around us. Nobody can deny, no scientist can deny, the law of cohesion or attraction. Yes, we see two things or more things attracted and uniting and we call that cohesion. But what is that? Why that exists? I am thinking we are in very deep waters. It is difficult just to enter in it unless we learn the introspection, the observation properly, and how to use the mind. Where do we come in conclusion? Let us call it the will of God. More easy expressions. But now what is God? Don’t try to imagine God something beyond our comprehension and our daily life. It’s everywhere. You must just understand what is God. When I was giving this lesson to some persons in their time a fellow, who happened to be a dignitary of the church, said “But you minimize God now.” Minimize God? And can you see God in a better way in your imagination or imagining?
15’03”
And can everybody just have the same kind of imagination imagining God? Why should we not just find Him, find It rather, in everything? How we’ve been imagining Its most divine majesty? Because he will understand what is this great force, power, let us call it almightiness, even in the most smallest things, in the cohesion in the formation of an atom. Because you can see the almightiness and the Total Wisdom of the Be-ness and the Beingness in the smallest and in the biggest thing. It’s just the same in an atom and in the galaxy. So we don’t minimize God in studying an atom. It’s what the orthodox scientists are doing now. They say just seeing an atom they can see a solar system. Nucleus, neutrons, so many things, just behaving in the same way that all planets and all heavenly bodies are behaving in a solar system. They say there are many many solar systems in our galaxy. Happily now astronomy is a good science to make people find God as Love and manifestation. Manifestation in Himself. Just now let us see things imagining using the mind and the proportions. Again what orthodox science knows today. Sizes in space. The Earth, our planet, is not more than a small little ball, marble, the children are playing now according to the comparison we will make. And the Sun, a mass, fiery mass, as big as this house. Maybe not bigger. One million times the Sun is bigger than the planet, Earth. There are other planets in our solar system. What studying can I observe? Motion. Movement. The circular motion around a center. And do we know that our planet, Earth, very very very big for us just comparing to other heavenly bodies is just like that little marble in comparison to a mass just like this house. Very massive[?] And we will see it accurately moving around its axis the earth every twenty-four hours and
according to its position going around the Sun turning the one side or the other side it gives to us every year from all times until now the same phenomena we enter spring, summer. This day last year or before twenty years, fifty years, hundred years, the sun was rising at the same time. It is not every day, says that [from Christmas?] the day has a minute, it’s added on the day a minute. Goes like that and we have shorter days and longer nights
20’00”
and longer nights and shorter days according to the season. And one can study all these things and know which is this mind behind it. And we leave the rotation of the earth around its axis. Let us take now the Earth, that little like a marble. Is that marble you call it? Small thing going around the Sun. Just make your imagination have a marble and the distance between the Sun and the planet is say fifteen kilometers. Not more I think Just like that. Just moving around its axis and accurately in a year, in a year’s time, it will make its movement around the Sun. Just put in your mind now the distance and the size of the masses. The Sun. The planet Earth. Who is holding this marble-like mass which you are calling Earth and we are living on it, moving around the Sun and around its axis without changing? Only fools and people who cannot use their mind are denying this almightiness and the Total Wisdom of what? Of course we say God, but again I am telling you what is God? Is it a human being? And a human being. Not only a human being, AND a human being. Then we come again to our question. What is Life? Now, have to think deeply. And all of the characteristics of Life now, we will study them later. What is Life? Because unless we understand what is Life we cannot understand what’s God. What can life be? The Be-ness, incomprehensible, but it should be so that things will exist in It. Is that space? And space, not only space. Of course, it needs much introspection, observation, and meditation just to understand a little about creation. Yes, Joshua Immanuel the Christ, the God-Man, the most perfect expression of the Logos, had manifested all that in the Sepher Yetzirah. The study on the creation given by Him to the Essenes. Because the Jews, the Hebrews, the old Egyptians, and many knew something revealed to them by holy archangels, but was the human brains able to grasp the truth about all this creative work or the archangels and of the Logos and of the Be-ness? Now we come to study the words- the archangels. What are the archangels? We are using words but we must understand what are the archangels.
25’00”
We should go step by step studying the phenomena and the causes behind
the phenomena. OF course when we say to a fellow “an archangel” the human being and the human mind or brains understand something known to them according to their nature. Not beyond that. This is the human nature to try to bring everything in its measures. Which is the mistake. We should not just the great Truths try to bring them to the measures of a human brain but we should expand beyond that to understand the truth beyond the limitations of what I call human understanding. Because we have to just decide from the very beginning starting to study and learn all these things we should remove the barriers from us of the limited way of common human understanding. When I say the archangels they think there is one Michael, Ma-ha-el. And they think that Michael is just like a human being. Or a Gabriel. Or a Raphael. I had a fellow the other day, dignitary I said of the church, say “But are there many Michaels? And many Raphaels? And many Gabriels?” I said of course. Many billions beyond number, yet one. What’s that “yet one”? This is the point to understand. One in that kind and nature of expression. But because a human being, a living God as a human being, is limiting its self-consciousness to an individuality cannot understand what is called the common existence and not the limited existence to a personality. Now I will explain it more. Studying a human being, a man or a woman, you can say that you know every other human being. Different way of living. All of them are living. Living means the common expression of the Infinite Beingness, to be as a human being living. That’s common, but each human being, man or a woman, has his own way of living. His own personality, his own individuality and individuality but in the individuality we enter into the common selfhood which you will find it in very very deep introspection beyond what I will call ecstasies, using the mind in a more perfect and impersonal way. Now, of course, suppose I study the character, the nature, the way of expression of a human being, maybe no other human being is expressing himself or herself in the same way. Studying one Michael, you know all Michaels because all Michaels have their own, not personality, maybe individuality, we don’t have a better word to use yet there are billions, and billions, and billions of self-conscious gods in their common angelic nature.
30’00”
The one and all. Something unknown to the human being living in the world of separateness, in the world of illusions. Of course we are in very deep waters. You not understand what is now common Logos selfhood. This is what Joshua Immanuel the Christ came to teach us. He has taught the Essenes and all those about this common Logos selfhood. Is that easy to understand it? Understand it as an individual, as a human being? Having a
name, a form. The form is common to all. What about the name? The personality? The character. Now we have to study these differences in life so that we will understand what’s Life. Life is not just the way we are living as human beings. Life is something greater. So, what we will do is just study phenomena and what’s behind the phenomena so that we will reach to a knowledge. Relative knowledge at the beginning but becoming broader and broader and broader until we reach to the truth. Now what’s truth? Don’t think that’s an easy thing to know the truth. Even the relative truth. SO I come again and I say we should express and use our divine nature of observation of what I’ll call willpower and the ability now of using what the Absolute Be-ness and Absolute Beingness had given me. The material body, the other bodies, and the mind. Germans call it geist. Yes, it’s holy but you should not mix it with the holy spirit which [is] God. You just have to make a distinction in that. The mind, or geist, is holy. Heiliger. But the holy spirit is divine. It’s an expression of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness denomically(?). So you can reach to these conclusions in deep introspection and in meditation. Now I’m asking you what’s life? Everything is living. The metals are living. The stones are living. Somebody told me, “The stones are living?” What are the crystals? What are what you call precious stones? And why should we have so much differences? Because there is difference in the way they are living. And I say everything is living. Death cannot exist in an everlasting immortal God. That would mean that death is in Him. Is it in our imagination? I say again that we make the mistake to consider the change beyond our understanding and beyond the phenomena as death. Such a thing does not exist. Now I’m putting again the question What’s life? The stones are living, The Sun[?] is living. Crystals are living. Do we understand that kind of life? Now orthodox science started to suspect it and study it. What makes the iron become rusty while the glass is not becoming rusty?
35’00”
Becoming ill? Changes. I’m telling you the orthodox science a seeker of the truth has a great respect even for today’s science. Because science is leading the mind and the brains of human being to reach the relative truth and then proceed for the Truth. No serious seeker of the truth is not having respect for the present day science in any branch because what do they find? What can they find? God. Find God where? In Its manifestations and beyond the manifestations. That means study life. They are synonymous. So, now again what’s life? We said the stones, the sun and everything is living. Yes, but by observation and study I see that on the ground are growing things, vegetation. In the sea, in the waters. Then I start to see
matter in different states of existence. Solid gross matter, I find the water, and still further I find natures of matter in a different way. Then what’s matter? It needs much study to know. Does orthodox science now know what’s matter? No. They will know someday. They suspect many of them - just Einstein’s and all others - they suspect. They give also definitions but orthodox science in all its branches, physical branches, are still in the embryonic state. They need much more time to understand and study matter. Now, what they found out now, that matter and energy are the same and you can turn matter into energy and from an energy come to matter. A great, great truth. But we put them the question “Can you do that? Which is that great intelligence which is doing it now? Turning energy to matter and matter to energy?” Of course you will tell them God. They said, “God? I am wondering why this God is so much tempting? Yet the orthodox science now … have said and science is saying “oh yes. God is dead. He has died.” Yet, everything is living. Everything is Life. So, we say we find herbs, plants, trees they are going a step forward from the called inorganic matter we see now life manifested. We see that this kind of life now is completing a circle of existence. The circle of possibilities of every kind of living existing manifestation of life. What is just most amazing is that apart from completing that circle of possibilities and the circle of existence they have in it every manifestation of life the power to create - of course the holy archangels are doing it - but we can see to create what we call seeds. Which include in it the circle of possibilities and of existence just to prolong the existence of that kind of life.
40’00”
What’s that? How is that done and by whom? We can create many many things using our brains, our mind. Can a scientist today create one seed of any kind of the manifestation of life to plant it and we see growing anything living? Did human beings do until now computers and many many many things deprived of life? Now what’s life? We see life in everybody around living life as human beings. We see life in the vegetable kingdom in trees everywhere around us. We see the continuation of the phenomena of life always confined for each species in its own circle of possibilities not going beyond that. But we see that every phenomenon of life has the means of prolonging its existence in creating other similar phenomena of life but not being able to go beyond that. Who just controlling this circle of possibilities? We can bring a kind of animals together of the same kind. They’ll just produce something of their own kind. Cannot have dogs and create horses. Or cows and making serpents. Who is controlling this so called circle of possibilities? Who can deny this absolute infinite intelligence we call God?
Controlling all that phenomena of life. Nobody can deny that. Everybody can study things around in nature and will come to the same conclusions. You will see order, harmony, and the total wisdom in everything, in any phenomena of life around us. We can study the phenomena of life and what more? The form and the material existence of that phenomena of life. Come to another point of study now - matter. We see that all phenomena of life on the planet in nature have to use matter. The elements composing the matter in their own nature. Whether this phenomena of life is a human being, an animal, or a plant. They need these elements. Gross matter, water, heat, and still more and more things that the orthodox science will find out. Call it energy, cosmic rays. Now, I said that the orthodox science suspects and tries and finds the relative truth concerning the creation. So, study matter. Let us study now what is as a phenomenon in the creation in the worlds of existence. So that something to exist it should have definitely a form. Billions and billions and billions and billions of forms expressing life. The form of an ant. Billions of ants.
45’00”
Of a butterfly. Of a worm. I said all phenomena of life, these billions and billions of phenomena of life strictly are on their circle of possibilities of existence not going beyond that and have in them the power of creating similar forms of life in what we call time and place space. Now another confusing thing, what’s time? What is place space? What is space? There are so many things that should engage the mind of a human being. Still people are living in their own life not trying to understand what is going on around them. What is in the world and in themselves. Living. Now can you know what is a human being as a person, a personality? And then come to the conclusion that all human beings are similar? We said before knowing what is an archangel called Michael you know all Michaels. And a Gabriel you know all Gabriels. But I said before you cannot know what are human beings, male or female, by studying Maria or George. So this study is the most confusing. And you have now two ways. The one way we are treating now is the common way. What is life generally? What is needed so life should express itself in the world of phenomena? Yes, we came to the conclusion it needs matter, water, elements, and all that.
47’35”
End Part A