1990.06.08 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
Our Father who art in Heaven, Hallowed be thy Name, Thy Kingdom come thy will be done, on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. God of Life, Love and Mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen.
{Ubiquity of Elementals}
We said much regarding the elementals. We say again that anything we see and comes to our notice, creates automatically an elemental, in us, subconsciously. Every thought, every emotion, every intention of ours, creates again, an elemental. When we say elementals, we mean forms with energy. With what we say, Etheric Vitality. Mind. We said in a lesson that everything is Mind. Even matter is a solid Mind. Now, these elementals are made of Mind, because we get the super substance of the Mind, formless, and we create from it, with our thoughts and our emotions, and subconscious visualization, these elementals.
{Elementals are Living}
So, every elemental has a form and energy, etheric vitality, which it takes from our etheric double. So this elemental is a living, existing thing. I don’t call it being. Only we are Beings from the Absolute Beingness. It’s a thing, living yet, it’s living. Has it’s own life. I said in a lesson, that every elemental passed out from us, possesses the intelligence of the one who had created it. So these elementals are thinking things. They have a form, they have energy, or etheric vitality, which has in it the intelligence of the one who creates it.
{Group Elementals}
Now, we create elementals, or reenergize elementals. What does it mean? Already around us, everywhere, are what you call ‘group elementals’. What we call “group elementals”? Many, maybe billions, of elementals of the same nature vibrating in the same
05’00”
rate of vibrations. We have many, many such group elementals on our planet which have been created and re-vitalized all through the centuries. We have what we call the “quality elementals” and you also th1
e gods, of the past, they are elementals also. That is, thought forms. What I call “quality elementals” - what do I mean? The group elementals of theft, adultery, cheating, gambling, smoking, and so many, many other things. How big is that elemental, that group elemental? In dimensions. Covering the whole planet, in the planet, and around the planet.
{Where Group Elementals are}
They are in what you call the fourth dimensional world. The group elementals are in the fourth dimensional world, because mainly, they are in the atmosphere of emotions. Because the emotions, the desires, and all those creating them, are things of the fourth dimensional world. So they are there. That’s why they are not visible to the eyes of people.
Because they are made of that substance, the so-called psychical body’s speed, that’s why they are not visible. Yet, they are loaded with energy affecting anyone living in a material body. And most of the people are under this influence, which is sometimes terrible. Very difficult to cope with, this influence. Especially when these elementals are so called ‘fixed
ideas’. Now the orthodox part of psychology studying these things, the ‘fixed ideas’.
Now, these are the elementals, existing, on the psychical plane, in the etheric plane of our planet, the in-between the material plane and the psychical plane - because as I said, a man has a material body, it’s etheric double, and his psychical body and so on, so the earth has the material body, has the etheric double, which is the etheric world which is not the psychical world, it is the in-between the material world, and the psychical world.
So, these elementals can live, invisible, even to the etheric world and be very near, sometimes they can be materialized. And can be seen, even with naked eyes. Because they live also, in what we call the etheric double of the material plane or the etheric world. So, this is regarding the elementals.
{Elementals in the Subconscious}
Now we shall see our subconsciousness, which is the sum total of those elementals which ever we have created or revitalized or reenergized. From the group elementals. So,
10’00”
we said, thinking about something, we project an elemental. Wishing to have something, to know what is that something and then, possess it, we create an elemental. Everything we do creates elementals. Can you imagine how many elementals you are creating every day? With your thoughts and your emotions? Thousands.
In your sleep life, you are also creating elementals. Because in that time, that subconsciousness of yours comes more to the surface, and then elementals are coming to the surface, exciting your emotions, your desires, feelings, and then even, during your sleep life, you are revitalizing elementals. Or creating new elementals.
Now I repeat, the group elementals are in what you call the Cosmic Consciousness which is around us everywhere, and within us. Because we are in the cosmic consciousness.
{Pressures from elementals}
Are we under the pressure of all those elementals? Because they are inside our subconsciousness? No. But you are under the pressure of those elementals of that kind of the group elementals which you have revitalized. So we are revitalizing one of the thousands of elementals contained in a group elemental, say of theft, of smoking, of drinking, of adultery, of sex and so on. Though we are all in that ocean, in which as parasites, are living the elementals, you are not affected by those elementals, unless we vibrate at the same rate of vibrations with them.
Otherwise are not affected. I give an example. Now into this room. How many broadcasting stations exist? And are filling this room? You have a radio here. It’s only simple to attune so that we hear a station. Music, a lecture, political lectures, even insults, many, many, many things.
So, all those broadcasting stations are here in this room. And having the right instrument to attune it to those tunes, we hear them. They will be reproduced. Though in this room we have all those broadcasting stations, do they affect you now? No.
Because you don’t have the right instrument or machine to attune you with those vibrations.
So, living in that ocean of elementals, of all kinds, we are affected only by those elementals which vibrate to the same rate of vibrations of our personality. Otherwise, they don’t find the influence in our subconsciousness or consciousness. So don’t be afraid of all those elementals. Be afraid of your self if you just lower your vibrations to those vibrations, to give them entrance. In your subconscious.
Now, regarding our subconsciousness. What is it really, our subconsciousness? Our subconsciousness is the 80 percent of our
15’00”
present day personality. What are the rest - 20%? What we call the
waking consciousness. So the 80 percent of your present day personality is what I call the subconsciousness. Or the group of the sum total of those elementals you have reenergized or created, and they are now in your subconsciousness. What is this subconsciousness of ours? Is it in any place in our body? How we can contact this subconsciousness of ours? Or what I call the present day personality?
{Getting the subconscious vibration of a fellow}
Getting a drop of blood, of someone, with any blood cell you can come in contact the whole subconsciousness in the material body, in the etheric double, in the psychical body, in the etheric double, and in the noetical body. Only with that blood cell you can come in touch with the subconsciousness of the fellow from which you got that blood cell. Only anything you are wearing who has your aura is in contact with your subconsciousness. Even a photo, taken by the light. They’ll send you a photo of a fellow living in America, thousands of miles away. You are a master of what I call psychometry, only by touching the photo, you can come in touch with his subconsciousness, which is, everywhere.
{contacting the subconscious}
So you can contact the subconsciousness of any man, no matter where he is, you will attune yourself to that fellow, with something having his aura. So the subconsciousness is not in a separate place, because as we said, it is in the world of the fourth dimension. Which is everywhere. Beyond the limitations of place and space. So, they are everywhere. They can be found everywhere, those elementals. The whole subconsciousness? Yes, but if you know the way, you can attune yourself to the certain rate of vibrations and so come in contact with that particular class of elementals you want to study, because this needs great skill. And long, long years - centuries maybe - of exercises and experience to be able to do that.
{training for psychometry}
But even everyone can train himself with what we say, the psychometry. By observation, concentration and meditation, just train myself. When you receive a letter, you don’t know from where you get it. Put your hands on the envelope. Breathe deeply and try, without thinking, to see where from this letter come. If it is written in the typewriter, it’s more difficult, but the
letter has the signature, by hand of the fellow who wrote it. That is enough to bring you in touch with that fellow, maybe, training yourself in this way, closing your eyes and touching the envelope, without, before even opening the letter, maybe the face of the fellow will come in your mind. And you’ll see him. But you need to train yourself for that, what I call psychometry.
Now, those studying parapsychology and psychology and what we call [‘que-la-bacy?’] are
20’00”
studying these phenomena.
So, our subconsciousness is the 80% of our present day personality, and our consciousness is the 20%. Yet, day and night, every hour, every moment, we are influenced by our subconsciousness. By our feelings, desires, emotions, wishes, and our particular way of thinking. Because even our consciousness is influenced by the subconscious. And I say the quality of the present day personality of a man is just the quality is his or her subconsciousness.
So, in introspection, or looking within, facing boldly your subconscious, you can know the quality of your present day personality.
Now, pay attention to what I say.
Looking within, exercising what we call introspection or studying the little self, which is the present day personality. I put it another way. Studying your subconsciousness, getting involved in your subconsciousness. Then another way. Start studying the way you are feeling. Your emotions. The way you are thinking. And how thought is serving the emotions. By making analysis of all that thing. What do you find?
That you are not that entity you think you are. And you find it out in the course of time. Because, in one time, you will be your present day personality as egoism. Flooded with all those emotions. How we understand that? You are not you in reality. The inner self. And you are the sum total of these elementals who is now studying because we said “All elementals have certain intelligence”. And especially the intelligence of their creator.
So you are a [unint.] as a group elemental of those elementals is not less intelligent than you are. So have that in mind. Yet, you are served that group elemental you call egoism which you make the mistake it’s you, is afraid of the comparison. Or rather, put another way, when you studying called the introspection, you’ll see it afraid of analyzing these things. But now say “now, no, no. I want to know the truth. I want to see the truth.”
Then your egoism will come forward and say “But I am you. And I don’t like that. I’m afraid of that.” Say “no no. You are afraid of that but I am not afraid of that. Now I want to know the truth.” That you stick to these things, you will find the egoism coming in all kinds of cunningness. To drive you away from this decision. Now this is a time to catch egoism. That means, the behavior of the egoism will be such to guide you to come to the conclusion that “No. I am not you, and you are not my real self.”
If you come forward again. “Oh, I repented for what I am doing.” And you’ll show masochistic tendencies. “Oh I’m a sinner. Why should I
25’00”
remember all that?” [unint.] Wait. I don’t care what you think you are. Maybe you are a masochist. But I am not. I am the one who wants to know the truth. And become the master of circumstances and the situation, first with this introspection, by observation, we find out the truth.
You have a subconscious dialogue with your egoism, who comes all the time, to pretend it is you. But yet you will say “No, I am not you!” You are a time and place, space creation! You are a group elemental. Yes presenting yourself as myself, and if I see you, maybe I see you having my face, my tendencies, my likings and all that you are very clever about that. But you are not you… me.
You are my shadow in the mirror formed matter emotion and thought. That’s not you. Myself. Looking in a mirror, when you smile you will see your reflection there smiling. If that could talk to you and say “No, you know, I am you, but did you know.” Of course you are not. You resemble my face, when I smile, you smile, but you are not myself. You are my reflection. You are something Mine, but not Myself. It’s a very different thing “Mine” from “Myself”.
{Withdrawing self-consciousness from the egoism}
This is what makes the egoism dangerous. Dangerous to whom, to you? No, to itself. Because after a long analysis you find that the actor and the sufferer is a [unint.] personality. Nothing can affect yourself as a soul. But, are you sure you are not, you also, you are not really you, yet you feel his group elemental is yourself. Now, you find that you are certainly not a point. But a line. And a line has 2 points. And those 2 points can claim the line. In what way the present day personality of the egoism, can claim that it’s you? Because in reality, though it is a time and place space creation, an elemental, I said, this group elemental possesses a kind of self-consciousness. That means, its backbone is you. If you withdraw, that part of yourself, as what you call it, self consciousness, it dissolves, or disenergizes, which, we have to do it slowly, slowly, slowly, disenergizing those parts in our subconscious and our present day personality which are not wanted, and are dangerous.
{Finding good and evil in the subconsciousness}
So studying both the our subconsciousness, entering in it, we find what we consider ‘good’ and ‘bad’. “Good” and “Evil”. But all this are imaginations. Because if you analyze things, you put your quo- we serve the quest- what’s within [civiles?]… Thus I gave a lecture the other day… no action can be considered good or evil, but good or evil is the disposition behind that action. Who will find it out? Yourself now, as a present-day personality.
30’00”
But, we are not completely yourself that, because you, you are real. You is eternity, its God. It’s not a creation under cause and changes in time and place space. This is what every serious researchers after the truth, in meditation, concentration, and observation, will find out. Everybody will find out the truth, behind the events which - truth is what? I am not my reflection. I am not a time and space entity. Yet I am something more than that.
I may think from time to time that I am that, but after a serious analysis I find, of that, that is not myself that made the selection in matter, in emotion,
and in thought, in time, in space. The real gain is after serious - it takes a long time - maybe years, study, to realize what you are. Far from the influence of time, and space place. That’s what I call ‘self-realization’. Real self realization. But, to be able to find that real self-realization, you must abandon the ‘little’ self realization of the present day personality.
Because, as long as you stick to that, you cannot find your real self. And Christ said, “The one who loves his soul - if you consider soul your present day personality and egoism - you don’t save your inner self - you express a self in time and space, which is not really you. But, those who hate this kind of self, as a present day personality, would save his soul. You come to the self-realization who that entity is really, and not what a creation in time and space thinks that he is.
If that egoism of ours - the sum total of our elementals would [uninit.], just make sure if that sum total of the elementals which our present-day personality insists to enslave, the real entity, the ever lasting Beingness, which is your soul, the one who will suffer, is not the soul, because the soul can withdraw any time it likes.
But the sufferer is the present day personality. So, by so-doing with the help of your inner self, you save yourself. Your present day personality. Because it’s not supposed, the present day personality of any one of us, man or a woman, is to be annihilated, or destroyed. But transmuted, transformed.
And now we understand the saying of Christ, “The mortal will become immortal. And the perishable will become imperishable.” This is a verse [tells?] of it, otherwise, there is no self. In this saying. So, now seeing things from this point of view, we understand the sayings of Christ.
So, the duty of every Researcher after the Truth,
35’00”
or any serious person studying the Esoteric Teaching, the purpose of any so-called religious man, no matter in which that religion that fellow belongs - all religions are paths to the same goal - to God. We should respect the religion of the others. Let’s have that in our mind.
So, everything leads to the same, always, end. The self realization.
{Understanding and Expressing God}
And what about God now. You call it Absolute Beingness, You call the Absolute Beingness the Logos, the Manifestation. You call it also the Holy Spirit of God, with its qualities to the Absolute Beingness. How can you understand God? Before realizing that you are god, by oneness or at-one-ment. Do you think you can understand what’s God, with a handful of matter which is your material brains? No. This is impossible. You’ll understand God by oneness or at-one-ment, not by thoughts, but how can reach that?
By expressing God. And God is Life, Love. That’s why Christ said, “Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. He didn’t say “Blessed are the intelligent ones or the cunning fellows. He says “Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God.” Because they will express God.
So, apart from the gain of self-realization, we will know now, through what we call at-one-ment, oneness, if you want to call it, what’s God. Who is God. Where is God. This is the real gain. Now, what Christ says about that? Just God is Spirit. Spirit doesn’t mean “geist” [German for ghost], definitely. Call it ‘Thought-Geist’, but it’s a very bad expression to call the Holy Spirit “Heiligen Geist”. “Geist” is Mind. Spirit is a different thing. I don’t know if you have in German or in your language any word for that. But Christ said - and he said that in the Greek language - because Christ was speaking and preaching also in the Greek language, he said “nevmah otheios cadis strost kinun da saftor an benevma ti ka ah de kia vi pros kini”. Which means, “The Absolute Beingness is Spirit, and those who are supposed to adore him, and approach him, must approach him in truth and Spirit.”
With this thing he says that we are Spirits. You are to approach him in truth and in spirit. So that’s clear. So this should be the gain. To realize who or what we are, take in extension, understand through oneness or at-one-ment, what is God. Or better, the Absolute Beingness. There, repeat that it’s not with the mind you understand that. It is with the Heart. By expressing the Infinite Beingness as Life and Love.
So. Now. Going back to the lesson. Entering in our sub-
40’00”
conscious, of course, entering in what I call our ’selves’, whether we do that in the waking consciousness, through introspection, or looking within, or you will get the habit of doing that, and you will continue doing it during the sleep-night. It’s a matter of habit. Now, we must see these qualities and the nature of the subconsciousness of ours, common to all. This is common to all. It is the repetition or the continuous re-vitalization of that element, of any elemental, and maybe at the same time of many elementals, in you. The repetition. You’ll observe, when you make your introspection, that you will repeat a sentence many, many times. This is a habit of the subconsciousness. This is the nature of the elementals. Repetition and revitalization.
Now, some people I heard the other day, a fellow, there is a modern song - has words to with it - a fellow was all the time singing it. Or whistling it. Every time, every little bit, every little time. It became an elemental strong enough not leave him alone. He came telling me “Oh that song is torturing me!” A number of you have experienced this. “I want just to [que-sell?] it and I want just to sing it. It comes all the time in my mind.” I said, “Of course. You have vitalized it so much, that it comes all the time, continuously, for revitalization.” “But I have got tired of it.” “But you liked it very much.” “Yes, I liked it very much, but now, now it’s torturing me! How shall I get rid of it?” I said, “Just stop paying attention to it.” “But that’s impossible.” [uninit.] Without knowing it, I sing it mentally [makes noise…], so you hear sounds mental? “yes”. “It’s a great opportunity to learn the nature of introspection” “I thought you’d tell me that.” He said, “Look here, Daskale, it’s not a joke. Really I’m suffering. This morning I got up, and soon as I got up, I was singing that song.” I said, “Oh what you want me to do?” “Find a way to get rid of it!” There are 2 ways. Either forgetting it, by liking some other song, which will be become a torturer to you, if you over do it, or, by forgetting it saying a prayer. “Ah,” he says, “I’m not a child. I used to pray when I was a child and my mother was insisting to make prayers. There is no other way?” “In creating and opposite elemental.” Which means, make your prayer, and mean it, that [mis grade?] you will be a thought something higher to dis-energize it. “Suggest?” Just a prayer. He went away. He came after a week. “Daskale.” “Yes, what is it?” “I got rid of it.” I said,
“How?” He walked the door. “Yes, you didn’t tell me the right thing to do but I went to other fellows and they taught me to recite a mantra.” I said, “Now go,
45’00”
that’s very, very good. Did they explain to you what’s that mantra?” “No, but I know to recite it, they taught me not to tell it to anybody.” I said, “that mantra, they have given it to hundred and seventy [powers?] see [peer its?] secret. You are a [sihk?]. What you should do is just do what I taught you. Pray! “Pray? But am I a child?” I said, “It’s not necessary to be a child to pray, I am praying and I’m not a child.” He said, “Come on, teach me to pray.” Don’t sit there to teach you to pray. Close your eyes and think of God. “How? As an icon in the Church?” No. As Love and Life. Breathe deeply and say “I breathe, I live, you are everywhere, you are in me, within me… “ But you think is said this is difficult. Try it! “But don’t you think it is that without becoming childish?” I said, “no, you become more real.” Don’t you think you are childish in getting a Sanskrit word, repeating all the time and thinking that we get rid of it? “But I got rid of it.” It is because you have believe that by reciting, you will get rid of it. If you would use any other word, believing that you can get rid of that…
[end of tape side.]
46’46”
Now, ‘cause one needs to know about his or her subconsciousness. The nature of it, how it behaves, how elementals are reenergized, and how these elementals should be disenergized. These are the main things one has to learn. The nature of the subconscious, of the elementals. Repetition. But we said an elemental in the form of a song. But there are hundreds of elementals which are not songs. It is certain emotions. Certain weaknesses. Certain wishes. Tendency of doing that and that and that. These are the most dangerous. Because it’s difficult to observe them - how they come - in the surface. Just ask for the song, was hearing it, listening to it. But what about other elementals? Of desires? Coming all the time in the surface? That’s what I said, “A Researchers after the Truth, should enter boldly in his subconsciousness, and study the nature of his present day personality. He will be wondering at, “it that me?” “I am that?”
Well, instead of ‘dissappointing that’, should encourage him to say ‘no I am not that’. Because I do not feel that. I must remove that. Just, you’ll say, ‘thoughtlessly’ - this, a ridiculous expression. Because you are giving thought to it, though not thoughtlessly. But this is an excuse. And so, study the whole situation seriously. Analyzing emotions - how are, why do I feel like that? Emotions. Liking, Dislikings, Loving, as you might thing but it is not the reality, hating, disliking, now put them down. On a paper. What do I feel now? Do I dislike a fellow?
50’00”
And why? You will notice that we think certain fellows with whom you have certain touch, whether they have satisfied your egoism, you like them. You try to meet them again, listen to them, and maybe you’ll do it for weeks. You’ll say your friends, “Oh, I like very much that fellow.” I even can say I love him - I love him! Why? We should be on the alert now. Why? Put to yourself this why?
Even that fellow, saying many, many things you approve - you approve. You like him. Until one day, that a man or a woman, will say something, and you don’t like it. Then you don’t like him or you don’t like her. And then you find mistakes to Daskalos. I have these things very often. People coming with a kind of adoration, which I disapprove, after some time, when they don’t understand something or they don’t like something, to have a change… “yes, you know Daskalos is making mistakes.” “This is a serious mistake Daskalos has done.”
So, these are the tricks of your subconsciousness. When you start with the intention of knowing the truth, that must be your purpose. Not hear something from somebody, or in a company, or a teaching, preoccupied, “Now this is what I want to hear, to write it.” Because there are fellows who will tell you the truth whether you like it or not. You must have that in your mind. So I’ll be serious what one would say. “He said that.” And I say I don’t understand it for the time being. And ask for more explanation. But not preoccupied, being influenced by your egoism. Or by what you call your personal interests.
So, what do I want to say? If one starts really to know the truth, he should free his mind completely from preoccupations. And he should, whatever
he hears, as a teaching, or has instructions, seriously, to pass it through what I call reasoning. This is what one should do. And I said in a lesson, that anyone and everybody can, and had the right to use the Mind, and also Reason, to know things, to learn things, to observe things, and to value things. So, they’re nephews.
So before starting, see that you are not preoccupied. And when you hear something and you don’t like it, pass it through Reason. You can do that. Now, in your relationships with people, in your community - of course you’ll make friends - you’ll meet with friends in their homes - and they will come to your house, and you will meet them maybe in a public place, many people.
You’ll observe that you’ll like some, and you don’t like some. When you are alone, say “why?” Do I like these fellows? And
55’00”
why I don’t like the others? Find the reason, there must be a reason behind it. So study the nature of your feelings. But now study them seriously. When you go in a company, this is very, very often happening, in meetings. What you’ll observe - that everybody there wants to show himself - by talking, speaking, not leaving others to talk. Everyone wants just to have the others observe him and know him, or know her. And most of the time, telling nonsense. Fact [sitting?’] the opposite of what that fellow tries to do. Because talking much, you cannot avoid talking nonsense.
Just a meeting company. Then what you find out, in the company? That you leave the company with headache. “Cause there is such a confusion, and you don’t like it. Why? Because what you were doing, the others were doing. They wanted just to impress you - impress the others, and if the other fellow didn’t listen to them, they wouldn’t like that - “because they didn’t listen to me.”
And knew somebody would come listen to you, and look at you while talking stupidly? You like it. Because you think he is suiting your egoism. Now I tell you, circumstances which happen every moment, every day and bump into you and will happen to you. So that we’ll be aware of what is what. Don’t avoid going to company, but now go with another spirit: “I go
to listen. And to understand how people are thinking. I don’t go just to show myself.” Maybe you will be in the company of 2 or 3 people. Just listen when they are talking, and try to enter in their mentality, “why?”
Maybe you’ll find out that those fellows are not thinking in the same rate of vibrations as your thoughts. That doesn’t mean that you are only thinking rightly. You should not be egoist. We shall listen to what the others saying. And reason. Maybe they are right. If they are not right, it’s more gentle not to attack, which very often happen “No, you don’t know, I know better.” In turn it creates enmities. Keep silent. Never give your advice or your opinion if you are not asked to do so. Not to create enemies.
But you have observed that this behavior, created within you the likings and the dislikings. In the community, in the company, in your own home, in the family. The most common thing that the family should learn, didn’t. And created so much trouble, divorces, separation of children from their parents, making all of them unhappy by, because each one of the members of their family, wants to dominate, to force his ideas or her ideas on the others. Does not want to listen to the opinion of the others. “I am the father.” “I have more experience.” “I know but, they have to obey me.” You find that.
No. We are a new generation. We cannot think the way our parents were thinking, everything has changed. That’s the clash. There is not an understanding.
60’00”
And this even destroys love in the family, which should be. Many people you are loving, you should love, you have complaints, you don’t dare say “I don’t love them”, but you say “Now, I don’t like them very much.” Very often I hear of that. And of course, I don’t spar openly, not to offend people. Which means everyone should seriously enter boldly in his or her subconsciousness - see things, study things - check emotions - see that these emotions did not lead to weaknesses. To hostilities, to disliking, and if he finds that that happens, correct. What for “correct”? For the sake of the others, or for your own sake? For your own sake, because your behavior maybe will not touch or make the others interested. But what about the poison of disliking inside you?
So when we have these feelings within us, we are damaging ourself. Which self? Of course the present day personality. So, the egoism is a kind of masochist. But with that, you feel you are that also and you are suffering. Try to correct it. There is no excuse. Everyone, every human being, man or woman, can be made use of the Mind, the formless super substance of the Mind, and the Reason.
With this Mind pure now, not contaminated with time and space emotions, can lead you to the truth. There is no excuse because we are allowed and we can use the Mind. In it’s purity, as reason.
So, we start studying our present day personality. Mind here, better put down things you find out. You will find that the sum total of elementals composing your egoism all the time will come and either protest or try to excuse you.. to find excuses. You have these two things: first, starting to present excuses for that and that and that and that behavior, and then feeling offended by you. No. “You don’t like yourself, and also you don’t like me.” You don’t like yourself now, told that - “beware of the hypocrisy of your egoism!”
The next lesson you have to learn is this, oh, “these creations of mine and the revitalizing of existing elementals has much more cunning ways than myself.” Why? Why this is so? And that the elementals are not less clever than you are. Why? Because they are influenced also by the same rate of vibrations from other people.
Christ says when the evil spirit leaves the man, going to [sharon?] then it comes back bringing with it seven spirits similar to it, yet [constally?] and come to the man. He describes very nicely what is taking place, Christ himself.
So, you must be careful of this,
65’00”
what I call it cleverness, cunning way of any of the elementals composing your egoism. But you will bring them forward, to take decision, decisions. Now, how? Accusing, fighting them, this is the attitude of egoism. Now the egoism, in its defense, will double itself, and come forward to say ‘no no no. I will judge that elemental.’ This is the most dangerous. I say ‘no, I
am doing it, not you. Don’t make double yourself now, to deceive, from the one [set?] side using reason from the other side finding excuses, and there from the other side complaining, so now it’s time, think on the other, to admire the cunning way of your present day personality.
This way, you can dis-energize it. By coming to your conclusions. I’m no more interested in your behavior. I said, “Mind! Don’t fight!” Don’t allow the egoism to double itself and start fighting itself, because it’s a cunning way to deceive you. This is the most dangerous game. You’ll find it out when you start introspection…. the serious introspection, that’s why I’m warning you.
If you like, just follow all that comedy - I call it like that - and laugh. And then, tell the [trumfet], sit down. I don’t fight you, by disregard you. That brings you are being disenergized and enter in the Cosmic Consciousness. Where? Again [say], I came inside you. But, these elementals are no more dangerous to you, being disenergized. Of those billions, billions of elementals vibrating, in a different rate of vibrations, they are within you and you are within them, and you are not influenced.
So you have to learn the nature of the subconsciousness. Of your subconsciousness. The cunning way of the elementals behaving. But do then observe telling you when you make serious introspection and looking within, you’ll find all that. Yourselves. Doing all the other, you’ll find all that. Because this is the common way the subconsciousness of each one is behaving.
Now, have in your mind that one of the habits of the subconsciousness is the repetition. This is the nature of Every elemental. Whether we call it good or evil. So by repetition, I still say that you revitalize that very elemental. What are the mantras of the Hindus? What is the Kyrie Elaison in our churches? What is [what halmos saponais?] in other churches? [Total virnerses?] in the church? You vitalizing already existing elementals for certain reason.
We don’t have only evil elementals as we say, we have also holy elementals. And we should reenergize them, in the form of a prayer, and disenergize the others, by disregarding them and not paying attention to them. This is the way you have to do it. Not by fighting elementals. You’ll
70’00”
succeed anything. Fighting, you strengthen them, subconsciously. So you disenergize any elemental by not paying attention to it. By disregarding it, not by fighting it. And you can strengthen, revitalize any elemental by repetition. So you’ll find out that the repetition is the nature of all those elementals, and those in group elemental which is your egoism. So, finding out this truth, use it.
What we call it now? Autosuggestion. And suggestion. Suggestion from what side? But they become autosuggestions after you get them, think over them, and creating or revitalizing [seria meed?] are elementals. So the psychotherapists who are going to make this work, they must have in mind what we call suggestions becoming autosuggestions. They might be very, very dangerous or very, very beneficial. Have that in your mind, because everything as thought and word creates elementals. We should be on the alert what kind of elementals we are projecting or revitalizing. So, the most important thing for everybody to learn, is the study of the little self-consciousness which we call the present day personality in time and space, entity which is you, yet it isn’t you. It is you in time and space, yet you are more, far more. You are not a time and space creation. You are a soul self super consciousness. And, after succeeding, using introspection to look within, maybe for many many years you have to do it, and get the experience out of it, then you’ll have the second step.
Find yourself independent from your material body. And you’ll see that you have the power of doing that, by exosomatosis. Getting out of the body. Coming back again. Then you realize that, ‘mine, what is mine? It’s not ‘me’. You make a mistake in all that “you are your body”. To succeed to what we call exosomatosis, before coming to this conclusions, through introspection and looking within will not help you at all. Because you’ll not be in a state of [vibing?] what you are going to see around you.
You are not the master of the form. I gave you an example yesterday. Have a very nice and beautiful garden. I take in that garden a child. And i take in the garden, another. Maybe the [alter?] the adult I say say “what I missed?” Both of them would just move around that garden. But you take them out of the some house and you put the question to that - thought in this time - grownup man, “what have you seen?” He would tell you
many many things he had observed. Had seen. Had excited his attention, liking it. Look at the child, 10 say. What have you seen that child? You have been in that garden going around. [Have you seen his [size shane?] who look at you - he did [solug?] there was any signs of signs there?] What you mean? Have you seen the lovely flowers? No.
75’00”
Which? You will not be able to describe any? There are visitors that know the names of those flowers. Definitely you will feel a pleasure. Or displeasure if you occupy his time there looking around no letting him play! That would be much more interesting for him to play with [science?] and not flutter about that beautiful garden. So people occupy it with their daily interests, and all that.
If you take them out of their body, in exosomatosis, they will not appreciate it, even if they come out for curiosity sake. “Daskale, yes, what would I do take us out of our bodies, and see what’s going on.” I have done it many times to certain people I thought they wanted [defor?]. Do you remember anything? Yes, something marvelous, something… tell me what it is. I cannot remember well. Others remember more, and more, and more.
Now, something else, regarding what we call “invisible Helpers”. Is it necessary to leave your body consciously, self-consciously of course, not yet, by becoming an Invisible Helper? No. Anybody can become an Invisible Helper if that Invisible Helper loves people and loves the work we call service.
I had many, many, many people here, in our circles. They came to me, said, “Daskale, yes (sighs), we went to the Hospital, yes, we go there, voluntarily, certain hour, say, a week. Yes, giving some help. There are even rich people doing that. Out of service.” Do you like it? “Yes.” Alright. You feel the pleasure of doing it, it’s service. “Yes.” Good.
One day, one lady came and told me “Daskale, I want you leave in me the truth.” I said, “What do you want?” Last night I was with you for certain hours, in that room of that hospital with that fellow and you told me to do that and that to calm that fellow down.” Yes, that’s true. I’m very glad you start remembering. But they’re using this very, very good lady two years now. Remembering very very little. Now starting to remember more and
more and more. ‘Just [unint.] exosomatosis Daskale” But you are doing it every night without knowing you are doing it. Subconsciously. Every one of these things exosomatosis is subconscious, every night.
The Holy Spirit and Archangels are taking you out of your body, so they will have time to make repairs in your material body and then return back again. What do you think is sleeping? It’s exosomatosis. but subconscious. Of course, some day you’ll have the conscious exosomatosis, that means, closing your eyes and stepping out, and of going to do this and that, and returning back home. And I say “returning back home” I don’t mean your house. I mean your body. Don’t think it’s difficult.
When you get the authority and the skill to do it, but doing it before you are ready, I’m telling you it is confusing, if not dangerous. So you have to like it, unless it comes, when it comes, that’s good. Don’t press it to come, by thinking “I am opening the chakra” of the
80’00”
liver or of the solar plexus, over the heart and do that or that. This is dangerous. I taught you concentrating these centers of vitality is most dangerous. That is under the command of the Holy Archangels working within your material body and the other bodies and the Holy Spirit. And a child is not interfering in the work of the grownups, disturbing their work, but playing. Concentrate, for your own good.
Yes, now, questions?
[participant] You’ve answered many of the questions that we’ve been given the wrong elementals
[Daskalos] Well, I have answered most of the questions you have put there
[participant] you’re attacking some….
[Daskalos] No need to put this hand in the other because I got it from their minds.
[participant] Thank you!
[Daskalos] Welcome! Now this is something I am going to say again. You present questions but Daskalos is taking them from your mind when you [tries to them you help?] This beautiful lady, because I don’t say she’s not beautiful and she got her angry!
So. Our next lesson will be on Monday, 10:30, for those who will stay in Cyprus, and I. Well, expecting many, many more on Monday. Alright. Now. The lessons I gave you, at least the last six lessons, are enough for you to work for 50 years, without the need of having any Daskalos, or any guru, or any Master, or any, call them whatever you like.
You only use the Mind, reasoning, hearing instructions, and working by yourself at home. Something else. Because I get from some of you, show you that side over there…. “will you help us Daskale” Yes, I will do it. Because each one of us… each one of you, has with you and will carry with you an elemental of mine. Which you have created, and I have strengthened.
So when you do your exercise at home, no matter where you are, which country you are, you can contact me.
And when you find difficulty, close your eyes, put your question, and you’ll get the answer. I know some of you have done it already, some of you who came two or three times before in Cyprus, but why not all of you do it?
So, the elementals are not only evil, bad or undesirable, can create also elementals of service. Do make some. To help you for your problems.
But all your questions have been answered even indirectly
84’14 [end of recording].