1990.01.25 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00'00 [Opening Prayer]
…Father in Heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven, give us this day, our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory.
God, of life, love, and mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen.
01’10”
If we ask someone to tell us “what is life”, no one can give a satisfactory reply, “what is life”. But when we ask someone ‘what are The phenomena of Life’, of course, he can give a description what are the phenomena of life around us. On the planet. To describe life, we must first study the phenomena of life. And I tell you know, what are the characteristics of the phenomena of Life all around us. A form is necessary. Movement. Motion, Kinesis, parts of life, as you call it, give any name you like. These are the phenomena of life all around. And by studying the phenomena of life all around us, we reach for the conclusion that for each kind of the phenomenon of life, from an ant, the amoeba, a bird, an animal, everything has as the wisdom of it, the circle of its existence and possibilities.
Now, what are these circles of existence and possibilities? A period of appearing and going the other side. As regards what we cannot tell on the material plane. So we see phenomena of Life appearing, being born, created, and, as common people say, dying. The phenomena of life, as a form, but as a material form, we can observe what we call dying, or passing over. Are the forms vanishing? The material form, yes, but the form?
05’00”
Of course a clairvoyant knows that the form is never vanishing of any form of life around us. Because that form is the expression of the circle of existence and of possibilities and probabilities. So. When we say ‘life’, how do we understand life? And how can we study the circle of possibilities and existence. Of course you tell me ‘by thinking, seeing, understanding’. What’s that again, understanding? Knowing, seeing? These are
phenomena we can see in all the phenomena of life. Besides thinking. Seeing? Yes. All phenomena of life around us, the animal kingdom have eyes to see. Feeling? Yes. Even. Thinking? Of course not all the phenomena of life all around us can use the Mind as Thought, to say they are thinking.
Who, in the animal kingdom, can think, and what is thinking? Why do I say ‘animal kingdom’? Because human beings belong to the animal kingdom, as regards to the material bodies. All the animals have a form in the material body. Flesh, bones, blood. So we belong, as human bodies, to the animal kingdom around us.
But what is that which make us different from the animals… all the animals in the animal kingdom. Of course, everyone will say that we are using the thought. We are thinking entities and existences. Exactly that. But what does it mean ‘using the thought’. What’s now the thought? What’s thinking?
All animals use their eyes in seeing. According to the instinct, they use the sight to avoid dangers, enemies, and that we call instinct. The instinct of survival. Now, around us we see many many kinds of gardens. Nicer looking things like bowls… with thorns. Many kinds of thorns. Why? Why to these kinds of the vegetable kingdom have the thorns? To protect their material body from being eaten up by animals. Do they see around them? Do they have eyes to see? So that they are avoiding danger
10’00”
from being eaten by animals or by birds? Yet they have the thorns. What provided them with those thorns to protect them?
Of course, somebody would say ‘providence’. What’s providence now? Yes I have put this question to certain students of our circles and they gave this answer. Providence. Yes but what is providence? No just using words, but piercing into the means of these words. Protection. To the animals is what I call instinct. They feel it. They feel the danger. They run away from danger. It is the instinct of survival. But what now makes to the vegetable kingdom, especially to the cacti, that kind of protection? Somebody will say ‘God’. Even so. What’s ‘God’? Providence? We come back again to the same question… what’s providence? Life itself. Life itself is the answer. The
correct answer.
Now what’s life? We see it in the phenomena of life. We see it in the characteristics of the phenomena of life. Motion, movement, changing place, motion. Vibrations. Circulation of the blood. Metabolism, anabolism and all those phenomenas, Orthodox science now… anatomy… are studying.
Then you come to another point. We. Who are we? As a present day existence, as we call a self-consciousness. Definitely we are not the body. The body, we can call it ‘ours’. Not only ours, but, we live in it. Express ourselves through that body. Yet what do people now, as a present day personality know about their body? Very little. You ask people, especially illiterate people…. with very lovely eyes… strong breathing, yes, very, very healthy. Yet illiterate. “Who’s taking care of this body of yours? Of your lovely eyes? Who’s taking care of the circulation of blood in that body, and what’s that circulation of blood for?” Before a hundred years, they didn’t know what was the circulation of blood. Yet the blood was circulating in all the human bodies from the time of the cave men. The primitive people.
Now we come again to the question, “who gave that protection, as thought, to the cacti?” Various shapes, forms, and different circles of existence. Circle of existence - possibilities - is what I called the conception of time of life
15’00”
of that phenomena. Shall we say that the same providence which took care of those kinds of cacti all around us and all the other bushes having thorns, also to be protected from animals, call it providence. Is it not your same providence taking care of the material body of every one of us? Without knowing it? Somebody will say ‘it’s God’. God, definitely. It’s God. But what is God now? What I’m aiming at now? What’s God? Life. All the phenomena of life. And, the super-wisdom, call it providence. What is not providence, for us? Just the proof that life expresses the total wisdom. By observation, we are reaching this conclusion. Everything is governed by what we call the Holy Providence. Life.
So what’s God? Who is God? Life. Has not any other characteristic for the Infinite Beingness than life. You can understand life by studying the
phenomenon of life, on the material world, at first, and later, studying phenomena of life, or the extension of the phenomena of life, continuing living in worlds of other dimensions, in what we say the ‘psychical world’. And then in what we call the noetic or mental world. Because life as a phenomena, exists not only in the material world, but also in other worlds. In Universes of different dimensions.
So, what’s life? We. Only? We as what? As Self-consciousnesses. The animals are sub-consciousnesses, as instincts. What about minerals? The crystals? Those who study the crystals, the crystals are living. They are expressions of life. The crystals. Everywhere is life. Everything is living. A grain of sand is living. Nowhere exists what we call ‘death’. Death is an
20’00”
imaginary illusion. You say ‘yes, but we see people being born, growing, growing, growing, and then dying.’ You say passing over, not dying. Which part of a person is dying? The material body, not life in it. The intelligence in it. What you call our present day personality, our I-ness. That was never born, and will never die or be annihilated. So what we see as a phenomena of life is the expression of the life as a phenomena of life in what we call time and space. Nothing more than that.
So we come to this first question, what is life? Now we see the phenomenon of life. All the phenomena of life are under the law of time and space. Is life also under this law? And the law of separateness? No. Life is eternal. Everlasting. Is and exists. So we have just to separate these two things. And what are we? Are we only phenomena of life? As a material body and our so call psychical and mind body, that means our human form, our existence is a phenomenon of life. But are we that phenomenon of life?
No. We are life. So I’ll make this distinction between a phenomenon of life, and life. We’ll make it now more clear. As I, a phenomena of life under the law of change, motion, time and space, we are yes the material body. The body we are using and moving about…[ ] the material world. Yes and our psychical body, as a phenomenon of life, as expressions we call it, emotions, desires, and many other explanations. That’s a phenomenon of life, again. With the human form, thought.
So. What we are not as a phenomenon of life now? Our I-ness. Our
self-consciousness. Our ego. If you like to say, our souls. We are the souls. Don’t say our spirit self. We see our beingness, our being, not exist [ ], only higher level.
So, we can study by meditation, observation, concentration, making the right use of the MIND, as reason… to learn, know and live in all the levels in the expression of the phenomenon of life we call it human… a human being, and then go beyond,
25’00”
entering into what I call our eternal self. Now it is something now you should see. As a phenomenon of life I have a human body, a form. Also the psychical body has a form and the noetical body has a form. I am living in a form. As life itself, I have a form. If I want to, yes, but is it necessary to express myself as life, not as a phenomenon of life? With a form? In a form? I tell you, it isn’t necessary. And when you ascend that ladder of evolution, and see the various stages of your expression as an I, in time and space, then you go beyond that. You can discard the human form and have it any moment you like, back. Only that. On this last stage of evolution, it means of course, practicing, and patience. Deep meditation, concentration and observation, reaching that stage I call ‘self-realization’… you see that you don’t need a form or the human form, and live. To exist, yes, you need the form. But to live, you don’t need it.
You can become formless I-ness. Are you losing your form, your human form? No. Then you gain new types of expression, through attunement or at-one-ment, becoming one… you can get any form you like. You can enter, dive, and live, and swim in the ocean we call the world of ideas. That means becoming what you are as a god. He said, something good. Why? Suppose you enter in that state. I call it Divine Super self-consciousness, becoming what we really are, entering in the kingdom of Heaven which is within us, according to Christ.
You have to give anything… are we losing anything? No. You are gaining everything, and losing nothing. We can reach it, the stage, you can get the form any moment you like. You can take any form you like, any time you like.
Time. What does it mean time? Yes, this is most necessary to get a form
and you live in it, and you live. Time to live in that kind of form. Don’t we need time in our beingness? As beings in the Absolute Beingness? Do we need time? No. Time is an illusion
30’00”
from this standpoint, yet, it is a necessary reality in the worlds of separateness, the worlds of existence. One of the lessons one has to assimilate and learn and know, is to know the world of beingness and the world of existence. To know the characteristics of life, in its self-abundance. Self-abundance? Why this word? Because God is Self-abundant. The Absolute Beingness is Self-Abundant. Can you find what we call self-abundance in our expressions, in the world of separateness? Even as a wholly human being? No.
If we don’t find dis-satisfaction, yes, we may reach a state which we call satisfaction which makes one feel time, because we call time and space.
Now I have described our nature, life and our expressions as phenomenon of life in a human body in the worlds of time, space and existence. Beyond these things, no one can be afraid of what we call death or the change. Yes.
After living in the material body, a present day personality… and a present day personality is leaving the material body every night…why are you not afraid to sleep? Have you left your living in your material body and either entering in what we call a world that seems being nothingness, yet, you are back. You are returning back. Next day, to be as a present day personality what we were yesterday. Or some hours before sleeping. The same thing. Leaving the material body, completely now, we enter in such a state as phenomenical, but not real, nothingness… to wake up, now, to dress ourselves with a new material. A new body, or new bodies. Because it’s not only the material body we are leaving behind. You are leaving also the psychical body, in what we call ’second death’. You are leaving behind even Mind body so that to gather around our ego self-consciousness we call the permanent atom, new material now, I mean MIND in all its rates of vibrations, to get a new body. That means being born again. The same process. Birth, growing, growing, and passing over.
Now put the question. If I see back in what I call the past, and study all
civilizations, life on the planet, history. I can see an eternity behind. I cannot place, what I call the past
35’00”
we can see things on the planet, what happens on the planet, and then the planet, how the planet was formed, what’s the planet… what’s a the solar system… and so on. We see just these things in what we say time and space. The world of phenomena, from the galaxy, to the amoeba. So we have an eternity behind us. What we know is This Present Moment. The present moment. How I am found now, as I am now, because now is in time what I know. And I am, and I exist. How do I exist? Where from? Have up I being for, and of course I will have in front of me as future, again eternity. What am I going to become? After what we say ‘passing over’?
After the body dies? What do we become? Now let us study what’s time. Past… a whole eternity. The present moment I know. And the next moment will be the present moment after… a moment! Time is and will always exist. Then I have the future. Then we call it time. And events in space… the creation. We, now as a human being, a present day self-consciousness, what am I? But you could put that question to yourself before five hundred years, when that time four hundred years was for you what I call the ‘present’. Maybe you had a different name. Different way of thinking. A different way of living. Now you are you, in the present moment. What are you now? And what is your difference from what you were, say, five hundred years back, or thousand years back?
You were a self-conscious I-ness. The same. What’s the difference? The dress you have put on from time to time, according to the time and the way of life of that time. Nothing more than that. And that dress was a material body, a name, a psychical body vibrating at that time according to the vibrations of THE time. Now we are satisfied with what we see all around us. And to achieve having that or that or that or that. And we never desire to have something we don’t know existing. But whatever we know that exists now around us, we may like to have it… get it. There are many many many things now which people before five hundred years didn’t have. They never dreamt of having them, or knowing them. Yet the human mind, the present day self intelligence of man is giving things and facilities in our times which did not exist in the past. You have the electric light, have the televisions, have the radios,
40’00”
have the motor means of traffic and communication. Yes, our forefathers might dream of buying an ass or a horse or a camel to travel with. They couldn’t dream of buying a Rolls Royce or a BMW or a car. But now, some people can have that. They have the means and want to have that. Maybe after 500 years, all these things now we see are something to be achieved through the mind of man, may be childish and toyish. I can see what is coming, of course myself. You don’t dream that these things will come and happen. You’ll not be in it at that time to get a luxurious car to be seen riding. That will seem to you foolish and boy-childish. Then, maybe, not of course after five hundred years maybe five thousand years will come. Maybe we’ll sit here, dematerialize you body, and find yourself in London, sitting with friends. Speaking with friends. Re-materializing and dematerializing, move everywhere you like on the planet. No need to be in our house in the different rooms. You can go to another house in the neighborhood. To another planet. Who tells you that such people are not existing now, traveling in this way? And even coming on the earth?
They can materialize themselves or dematerialize themselves at will. As now, you see the life back as childish. And poor. So you shall see life, after five thousand years, you are living now, you consider it most satisfactory, you have so many comforts. But shall we be after five thousand years? Of course. In the same way you are found this present moment, seeing back on the past, a whole eternity…we’ll alway be. And live. Live. Since you are the life. Our ego is that’s life.
And nothing can extinguish life. You understand that, then we can understand ‘what’s life?’ Can I put you now the question, why? The correct answer will be ‘life’. I am life. This is what one should know not by the words of another human being, but by direct first hand knowledge. Now, which is the proof? Daskale, that what you say is the truth? Yes nice words, and somebody told me, ‘yes, making a dream so that we’ll not be afraid of death.’
45’00”
Which is the proof now that these things are the truth? Because by developing, broadening the horizon of your existence and abilities, you gain
certain powers. And these powers of the mind is the proof. You are sure you are on the right way. So by advancing you see the light in a broader horizon. And in that light, you see yourself. In the light now, not in the mud we call the ‘ebf’, or the material things, or the material body. But one has to practice and getting decision of knowing the truth. And the truth only will liberate us from illusions of matter, time and space. We are not losing anything. Because any time we can enter in what we call time and space. Any time we want, we can get back what we give up. So nothing to lose. And everything to gain.
Now.
[end of tape side]
Now, what is our life as a phenomenon of life in the material world? We are living in a material body, which we did not build ourselves and very little we know about it and the work which is taking place in our material body. So by studying what is going on in our material body and knowing more and more about that, we come to the conclusion that it’s built up by higher intelligences we call our Holy brothers the Archangels.
Now, we have now the means of knowing more about that energy in our material bodies we call the etheric double. And, now, we can use it. We know its qualities. As imprinting ether, kinetic ether, esthetic ether, and that we’ll knowing, also, as creative ether. By using it, we are sure that it exists, and we know what is its source, by what we say concentration, meditation and observation. I study now my expressions in life, living in a human body, living, I start studying
50’00”
my desires, my emotions, the various influence of those emotions back to me, studying their quality and their nature, which means studying my elementals. The elementals I project. At the beginning you don’t see them, you don’t know even of their existence. Christ is mentioning them in the New Testament, as ‘spirits without contents and thoughtless.’ And we know by that description, what these elementals can do. Says a man was suffering, being indisposed, and there was a gathering of such elementals calling itself ‘Legion’. So, now we are in the state of observing and knowing what we call our psychical body. So knowing the nature of our emotions, of
our desires, of our weaknesses, of our fixed ideas. This is now what the orthodox psychology and parapsychologist should have to know. Because the science is in its infancy now. They have to study much to know the nature of desires, emotions, reactions of the emotions, weaknesses, how to go over the weaknesses. Now they are just trying to study what they call ‘fixed ideas’. Yes, people study that now.
We, in our circles, have done it long ago. And we know much. Much more than what the orthodox science in psychology and parapsychology today knows. I have the diploma of Master of Psychology. So I know what they know now. And many psychologists teaching at the universities, boasting about the title of doctor and professor came here sitting in the chairs you are sitting in to learn something more. From me! Do I know more? No. I know how to show them the way to know more. Because I say no man can offer you anything unless you know that thing personally. And you can be not sure about anything unless you know it.
So there are ways to show these people how to work to decide Freud and Jung and Atler and others. Close these books as unnecessary and start reading one book… the book of their life. To study their own expression. Their own behavior. And start studying and knowing the nature of their desires, emotions, passions… the very same book… the book of life. And each one of us has one of these books. But what we have to do… every day we write a page. Some times we make dirty pages. Sometime we write more legible. Like that. We should be bold enough to read that book. Our book of life. Whether
55’00”
well written or very badly written. And learn how to write better. To write better pages in that book of our life. There is somebody writing also for us to show it to us… it’s our Guardian Angel who keep the records. But why should we not write, self-consciously now those pages and write unconsciously?
So, no psychotherapist or psychologist can say he is REALLY a psychologist or psychiatrist is he doesn’t know his own book of life. To know what is desire, emotion, clean or dirty emotions, weaknesses, and how to overcome them and change them. Then he will learn what are ideas, fixed ideas, and how to dis-energize, dis-energize first, in HIM, his
fixed ideas, to be able to find a way to disenergize elementals or what we call fixed ideas on patients. When they learn that, they will know how to make a real psychoanalysis. I have asked, one of these psychiatrists… we have many in our circles…by studying these lessons now, I put in the question, “what are you doing in making a psychoanalysis of a fellow?” And what are your successes? According to the leavings. And according and according and according. You have to study That fellow, and start with him. Not according to Freud and according to Jung and according to other… close and throw and burn these books.
Are these things useless? Today, yes. Today we are in the age of practical knowledge with the results and not only theories which are not proved to be correct. Why they are not proved to be correct? Because Freud, Jung, Atler and many others have taken certain results as causes, to learn certain results. They should go to the first cause so that they know what is that they have to study. You cannot have a result as a cause to see a further result. So they should know the causes and which are the causes, to study, seriously, the nature of man. He studied seriously the nature and power of emotions, desires, thoughts and counter-actions of those things we call elementals. One can, even before seeing the elementals, feel them, know them, and know the way how to disenergize them. Is that easy? Then very easy if you know the way. If you don’t know the way, you cannot do it.
Suppose I have a bomb here. It’s ready to burst after five minutes. We have a boy knowing he can take away the fuse and finish it. If he doesn’t know, even a grown up will be blown up. And believe me, some elementals are terrible time bombs. And one has to know their nature
60’00”
and how to defuse them. Or disenergize them. How? Not by arguing. By a kind work you can diffuse things. They brought to me one of these suffering person. Questioning them, they were threatening these elementals. They said, ‘in this way, we let steam out’. I said, ‘you think so. You re-energize’, I said, ‘these elementals by bringing it to the mind and make the mind fill it again. Stop it.’ By opposing it, you do the contrary of what you are trying to do, because the nature of man… they should know the nature of man is to counter-act. So you are losing the time. How you do it? Just not allow him, to say much, to feel guilty, or ill. Put his hand on his heart. Have a seat, see him or her in the eyes. Tell him ‘definitely you are right, I understand you.’
Then he’ll kneel, on you, as a present day personality. Teach him what is really making him suffer. Speaking of this kind of elementals, of smoking, drinking, gambling, or something like that… explain to him… ‘I understand you but of course… you are right.’ Don’t oppose him. What he’ll tell you? Can I go over these things sir? ‘Yes.’ ‘I am a very very bad man.’ ’No, you are not! Who told you why?’ ‘People think I am and they tell me and insult me.’ ’No. You are wrong. You are a very very good man. But under certain weaknesses, yes, because you don’t know how to go off of them.’ ‘How?’ ‘By not giving them attention, not by fighting them.’ ‘You find the right moment to say, you save him.’
So, one psychotherapist or psychiatrist should definitely know the nature of man. The first cause. How emotions, desires are coming in the surface and how, by giving them attention, re-energizing them all the time create strong elementals, we call them fixed ideas. Call them passions. We call the weaknesses. So before knowing the nature of something, you cannot deal with it. Without knowing the nature of fire, you can burn things, or your hands. First of all, we should know the nature of man. How. I get from that side this how. By learning the circle of possibilities, and of the special probability in that fellow. Not be in a hurry. But patiently, and patiently, to discharge the energy of that elemental. Take off the fuse on the bomb.
So. What is our life now on the planet, in any country, in any nation. Whether in China, England, America, Germany, France, the Eskimos. What is really our life, now.
65’00”
Living in a material body. The first thing we have to learn is not to make bad use of this body and know the way to keep good care of it and cooperate with the Archangels and the Holy Spirit in keeping it in good health. This is the first duty of everyone living in a material body. What is the next he has to learn? Whether he is going to become a psychotherapist or not [ ] he is living is what he has to learn. To observe, see his expression in life as emotions, desires, and become I say, yes, a burning question mark. Expecting the… what comes after that?
Analyze his behavior, analyze and see the quality of his emotions and desires. Now use the reason. Not use the mind as the slave of the desires how to be accomplished, but use the reason to know its nature and what
these things I am. It’s supposed [tofair?]. Will it give us pain? Will it give us pleasure? How? What kind of pleasure? What kind of satisfaction? By studying the nature of his emotions, and using the thought now, as reason, you will find now that life on the planet is giving us what you call satisfactory, pleasing or painful. And he will see that this is in various grades… yes, pleasing. More pleasing. Giving a pleasure in more time. Giving a kind of yes, satisfaction. To the other side, give us dis-satisfaction, all this will give us more pain. If accomplished, yes, still more pain, to last for longer that time. Get further, despair. So one should just put under his observation and meditate on these two qualities.
Everything he feels as desire and what it leads to, because a desire is not stopping there. It creates another, and that other, another. And another, and another. Until a man becomes a slave of his desires, his emotions, to the point that the sum total of all those desires, emotions and experiences create in him that beast I call ‘egoism’. Now he should start making self analysis, not to the others, he needs it first. He needs first the psychoanalysis, for him, before he would be successful to do it to the others. Well, this self psychoanalysis in himself, will lead to where? Where it will lead? Knowing that expression in time and space we call our present day
70’00”
self-consciousness. In reality it is our egoism. Still meditating on these conditions, he will come to the conclusion, who am I now, one who is able to get decisions? And change these emotions. Change my attitude towards life. Change things. And what is that I consider part of myself presenting itself to say, yes, but uhhh… why should we change that?
And he will see that the egoism claims, without using reason, while he, himself, the real self, knows, and can take decisions. It is the first time, he disentangle himself from his time and space ‘shadow’. Still going on, becomes the master of MIND, emotion and body. And, comes to what I call the ‘real self-realization’. And again I say ‘how we are sure we are on the same, on the real path?’ You acquire certain powers. He doesn’t use only is mind for seeing, but he can see through what we call now ‘vision’. Clairvoyant, clairaudience, he feels spreading, not living only in a mass of matter which is the material body. But he can be in different places. At the same time, receiving from all these places impressions, while before, if he
was noticing and somebody would tell him something else, was distracted his attention. He cannot concentrate only two points, only one point. Now by training this way, he expands. Some are feeling afraid, having this expansion in the beginning.
I had the other day a fellow who came to me and said, ‘Daskale, I will stop everything, everything, I will stop it.’ I said, ‘why?’ ‘You know what happened to me?’ ‘What happened to you?’ Said, ‘I was sitting on the easy chair and I was just near sleep was [ ], and I found my body…’ ‘Which one?’ ‘I found myself on the veranda, sitting outside of the room’ ‘Yet I knew I was sitting on the chair, and I was there’ I said, ‘you fool, what you did!’ I came in my body and it was shivering and I asked my wife to bring me a glass of water…’
I said, ‘you fool… you should Observe! That’s what I call observation being outside… stay there. If I die, it was time for you to die, you would die, your body will die. Now this proves to you the you will not die!’
He said, ‘what do you suggest?’ I said, ‘you should be there. Go with that body of your, try to see it, feel it, and see the other body sitting on the chair, laugh, and say… now you stay there, I’ll go for a walk. Go down to the yard,’ I said, ‘and see things, and said, now, how you get back? And peacefully, go up the stairs you have come down, and go and enter in your body. And then open your eyes and say ‘yes, I am back home’.
75’00”
He told me, ‘Is that so simple?’ Yes. You had all your [posses?] ‘no, I shall make the exercises but I don’t want any…’ ‘Did you not remember exosomatosis?’ ‘Yes, is that exosomatosis?’ ‘What do you think it would be exosomatosis? You had, and you were afraid of it? And you are longing for it?’ ‘Why I thought it was something else.’ ‘If this happens to you, be reasonable. That’s the moment to say, yes, now I know there is not death or annihilation of my personality. Then, try to understand ‘what am I now?’ Different, to what I was in the material body. Because it’s not that only. You, and not the material body, is the thinker. The one receiving impressions. Try just to know your expression of yourself, your real self, because you have to make still another exosomatosis from the psychical body, later. And live with the noetical body, giving you more powers, broader field of understanding and living.
So. This is my suggestion. Two books you have to consult. The others, for pass-time, yes, and for information. But for study and living with them, only two books you must have to study. The New Testament, as your best friend, for information and knowing the truth. And the book of YOUR life. The book in which you are writing and what you have written in it. That means, making the psychoanalysis of your present day personality.
Do something else of course. Egoism will come to you and an angel of light, while egoism is the Devil. To say ‘yes, of course, you doing that now, but you are a sinner!’ or ‘I am a sinner, you and I, we are one. We are a sinner.’ This is the great danger, talking with your… know I am not and have never been a sinner. YOU are in ignorance and you have to die. To go away. You are not myself. Not become masochists. Or, God forgive me, ‘I am a sinner’, ‘I am a criminal’, ‘I am that and that’. Another danger, of this beast called egoism. You shouldn’t reach to that point of masochism, because it is as bad as what we call sadism. And these are expressions of wrong sentiments or feeling and emotions. That’s why I say you have to study the quality of your emotions.
The emotions are not something you put down and see it there, and only trying to study it. It has its own life! Every elemental has its own life, its own intelligence, which is YOUR intelligence. So don’t think that thing, that emotion or that elemental you are studying will not counter act. So, be careful then. See it. Let it present his cause, and then tell him ‘no, that isn’t so. I am to decide.’
80’00”
Now I know which was the cause of all the pain and suffering I had all these years. Believe me, what is most necessary is what we call the psychoanalysis of our own self. And the gain will be great. You realize who you are apart from events and illusions of time and space.
Now. Your questions.
You don’t have much time because I have to see some patients after that.
Q: What do we do when we leave our body?
D: “What do we do when we leave our body…
Q: At night. At night.
D: Now, What everybody is leaving the body at night, or, even if in the body, everybody enters in that state of nothingness for some time. I think he will recompose himself in the morning when he wakes up. Now what do we do? Exactly what we were doing all of the day. Using the MIND in living our life. Living in our desires. In our emotions. In our fears. Sometimes we wake up in a subplane of the psychical plane seeing the landscape, meeting people. And we wake up in the morning, ‘yes I have seen a nice dream.’ That was not a dream, that was an experience in the psychical world.
Now, observation. Decide when you go to sleep if circumstances will make it to wake up to start noticing and observing things happening there in the psychical plane. Usually [ ] people when they wake up, they take things as they are, without using the MIND to make further thoughts, taking everything as they see it is natural. Now you start expressing yourself as the Inquirer, the same thing you do on the material plane in your material body. But really, all people do that in their material bodies. So you must start getting that habit while living in the material body every day. Then you get that habit, and you take it with you as a present day personality after the exosomatosis. Because in exosomatosis, it’s only your material body you are leaving then. You are you as the present day personality, living in the material body. Same thoughts, same emotions, same faults, same things you like and same things you dislike.
You are you, as you are now. So, get from that now living in the material body the habit of noticing, of observing and meditating. So that’s when you find yourself awakened sometime in the psychical world, with your psychical body, to be just you, now, behaving in a sober way. Yes, you have just to work for that.
Now I think I must see some… lesson I will undertake.
[end of tape]