Part B
Then you start studying your emotions. Analyzing the emotions. Studying the behavior - not your behavior, the behavior of the egoism in you, the behavior of your present day personality. Now checking the behavior and then “What made me behave in this way?” Feeling like that. Catch it. Why I was feeling like that? Now we come in contact with what we call our emotions. I’ll put it in a more plain words. Start studying your feelings. Why am I feeling in this way? Why feeling in this way I have behaved in such a way? Of course, you must study your desires. What are the desires? What can these desires be? Feelings? Maybe. We get knowledge of something by coming in touch without knowing it. What happens? What is that? You want to know it, the desire to know it. With that or that way we come in touch with that something, with the person, to know it, by my five senses. Then, continuing the desire I want to have it. You don’t put to yourself the question, why do I want to have it? What for? That is reason but we leave reason behind. I WANT to have it. This is desire of having it. Then, how can I have it? According to the circumstances all around us. Asking, that it will be given to me? Buy it. Steal it? Take it and go away. So, I have now the desire of having it. Instead of using reason, I am slave of that desire of having it and we see what happens all around us in the society. Having it. Many times you felt the desire of having something and when you have it, you have the desire of having something else. Immediately, when you have it it is losing completely its value to you. But is that I was longing for so long time? And I was struggling, struggling for it. Another desire to have that. Then, again, the same story. Having it again by one way or another way. Again see that’s losing its interest maybe being tired trying to have it you don’t like it anymore. And we see that most of our desires tend to be fulfilled and when they are fulfilled they’re losing completely their value to us, putting things aside…
5’00”
... and running after other things and after other things and after...So, if a desire is fulfilled it doesn’t give full satisfaction because it makes you tired. You are fed up of it. If it isn’t satisfied, that desire, then you have that feeling why? Why, torturing. What’s the reason? Making you nervous and
unhappy. Any desire, whether fulfilled or not fulfilled, is making people unhappy and tired. Then, what do you propose, Daskale? Can see these desire in me. Is it a necessity? Must I have it? Is that wrong to have something I want to have? No. Christ said ask and it will be given to you. And I’ll tell you something else. All your desires sooner or later will be fulfilled. Most of the time they are fulfilled after you forget them. That means leaving them aside and giving the time to that elemental to fulfill its purpose. So, a desire gives birth to an elemental and that elemental will never be dis-energized before it fulfills its purpose for which it has been created. So we should learn that nature of the elementals. So, apart from what the elemental is to do it’s influencing us. Torturing us. Enslaving us. This is wrong. What is the right attitude of a living being? Put down his desires. To find if it is reasonable to have them. He will see that most of the desires and those desires torturing more are those who are not necessary to have them now. Do not serve a purpose. So, face the desires calmly, studying them, to know if it’s right now working to have them or later. That means not becoming the slaves of desires, but the masters of desires. Separate the desires to necessities and to what those desires are not offering in reality anything more than temporary pleasure. What are necessities we’ll have them because no child had asked the father or the mother to give him bread or a toy and that parent didn’t give it. But if the child is stupid enough and comes to the father asking for something he is not in need of having, definitely that father will deny giving it to him. So we must have that in mind.
10’00”
To ask and it will be given as says Christ. But we should know what we are asking. And we will have it. Now, in this way we are checking that storehouse of our present day personality we call subconsciousness and we see that nature of our subconsciousness which is part of our present day personality. It is a storehouse of elementals torturing us. We should free ourselves by studying the nature of these elementals, knowing them, and instead of fighting them, having them or forgetting them, just disregard them. Neglect them to dis-energize them. Why? So that we will give the energy to other elementals more serviceable and which we need more. So we will classify our desires to the necessities to what is not absolutely now necessary. How do that? By using reason. Now, this is the one side of our subconsciousness. The storehouse of the elementals which is our duty to check, study the nature of these elementals, and if need be, dis-energize them and replace them with better elementals. What is the other nature of our subconsciousness? Our subconsciousness, the other side of the
egoism is obeying orders until the present moment it was obeying the orders of egoism. And that side of our subconsciousness is not reasoning because it was all the time under the influence of our egoism. So, this part of our subconsciousness is not reasoning but obeying orders being under the influence of what you call habit and repetition. You must study this nature of our subconsciousness. By studying it we come directly in touch with the substance of our egoism and we see that our egoism now, in a most unreasonable way, was influencing this subconsciousness of ours, not for our good, but for what I will call bad health of the material body, of the psychical body and the noetical body. This egoism now was giving through this part of the subconsciousness very bad suggestions but most powerful to make our life in the material body and in the other bodies miserable. This part of the subconsciousness is the cause of 80% of the illnesses of the bodies. Of the material body, of the psychical body, and of the noetical body. What do we have to do now after separating ourselves from egoism…
15’00”
...and getting the mastery of our emotions, and of course the mastery of our subconsciousness? Study by reason, meditation, observation, to learn the nature of this part of our subconsciousness and get it from the hands of egoism and say now, no, you will suggest no more. You will not influence that part of mind in my personality, yourself. But I get the control now of it. And after knowing the nature of subconsciousness, that the subconsciousness obeys orders without reasoning. Knowing what we call the nature of repetition which the Hindus found out and they started using what I call mantras to influence the subconsciousness. You get the control of it now. And you study what that part of egoism, using the subconsciousness, has done until now to your material body, to your psychical body, to your noetical body. So, it comes to you what you believe that it will come. If you believe what the egoism, not you, have suggested to the subconsciousness and surrender your will power to it, what comes now to the present day personality? All kinds of illnesses and misery. That’s why I insist that we should kill the egoism which is the devil within us and the main cause of all misery in a human being. And we, now, reasoning must get control. So you must study the nature of your subconsciousness, which I say is repetition, obeying orders usually coming from the egoism, you will get the control. No more orders or suggestions from you. I am controlling now this part of my self I call subconsciousness and use it, repetition, and see the result. I have many many cases of certain doctors who make the mistake of suggesting stupidly to certain patients, influencing their
subconsciousness. They have studied that these symptoms may be the outcome of this illness and this illness and that illness and that illness. It is most easy for them to say when they see such symptoms, multiple sclerosis. Many are coming from Europe and all countries of the world lame, not being able to walk, using the wheelchair, because certain doctors in Germany, in Switzerland, in America, in England, said yes, they have multiple sclerosis and slowly slowly they will become completely lame. Suggesting what they thought it is, the doctors, without knowing the working of the subconsciousness of that fellow, of the patient. Slowly slowly slowly that comes and they think they are right. They have done a good diagnosis. Many are coming on the wheelchairs. Do you think I work miracles myself? Do you know how many came and kicked the wheelchairs and now they are working in the fields? And say where is the multiple sclerosis which kept me six, seven, eight, twelve years on the wheelchair?
20’00”
You take out of their mind and their subconsciousness that thought and they are free. What they believe is doing the work. Which work? Since the holy archangels are building in a body day and night with whatever that stupid egoism of a man will interfere to stop their creative work and create in the material body and the other bodies ill conditions. Christ knew that. So, you should be very careful in what you suggest your subconsciousness. I’ll put it in more plainly - in what you believe. WHen Christ was curing people he said your faith cured you. What did he mean? Your faith had cured you. So, every psychotherapist and psychiatrist or psychologist should study the subconscious mind. We say that subconscious - it’s subconscious mind. And it is in the storehouse of their present day personality and become, each one, master of its home. Master of his house. Start to study and learn his own nature, even as egoism, so that you will be able to catch him and say, no. No, I am not you. You are torturing me. You make me believe that I am you yet I am not you. Because all the time you were not reasoning while I can use the mind as reason and right thought. So you find this duality in you, let me put it like that. Then it’s very easy to find what you are and what you are not but you must detect this duality in you, And to detect that duality in you you must start by using reason to check your emotions, control your emotions, learn the nature of the emotions, study your behaviorary nature in life and that is what we taught to you, we say introspection or looking within. I’ll put it in the Greek way, of the ancient Greeks. You must understand that you are the man-God, (Greek word). You are the master of the labyrinth, in which a beast is devouring every year seven young men and seven young women.
That means getting control of your seven centers of energy. The Hindus call chakras. And you must get inside, catch him from the world, and kill him. I am not you. So, soon you’ll detect by this what I call self-analysis and studying your emotions your desires, your behavior - especially weaknesses, passions, and ill behavior, free yourself from these influences and then you start to understand your dual nature. The egoism will come in and say I am. You what say? You are me? No. You think you are. You are a creation made by the sum total of the elementals…
25’00”
...you yourself again were projecting and accepting them back to make the quality of my subconsciousness as you like it to be. But now I want it in a different way. I can replace emotions, desires, change the behavior, start thinking soberly, becoming the master of my present day personality. Because even our present day personality it will be saved. Don’t think that the present day personality, with all its mistakes and vices, is not holy. It says so in one of the prayers we make. God, with all my mistakes and my crimes, I am your likeness and image. Have mercy on me. Have that in your mind. So, the aim of the researcher after the truth, and when I say researchers after the truth I don’t mean all those members of the circles I am heading. Everyone on the planet who seeks to find the truth no matter in what religion believe dogma system is following is a researcher after the truth. We don’t have the monopoly of this title. So that when I say every searcher after the truth should use this system - right thinking, analyzing, real meditation, concentration, and observation to find the truth. To search for the truth and we can find the relative truth on the planet in our life on the material plane. Because the real Truth will be realized when we get free from our bodies, the influences of our bodies. When we have us self-realization our real nature, which is our ego-spirit-self-superconsciousness. What’s that? It’s not easy to understand now. Now, check your present day personality, your present self-consciousness. That I am and a name, of a man or a woman. Start from this point to check. Check. Study. And slowly, slowly you will find out who you are. You will find that you are what you don’t think you are and what you think you are now is nothing more than your present day personality’s egoism. So free yourself from the mud, very bad smelling mud, of matter. Make it clean it. Matter is good. It’s not mud. So, I can answer to two questions only on this subject.
29’14” Daskalos: Yes. Yes. Loudly.
Questioner: Yes, in this lecture you referred to three etheric doubles. In another lecture last week I believe I heard you say that there were two
etheric doubles and the double of the noetic body wasn’t exactly etheric.
D: Well, it’s etheric..
Q: It is? Okay. D: What does it mean double? Being exactly the same as that for which it stands for. Well. Well, we have the etheric double of our material body which is the mold in which our material body is built and by which it’s built. You have the etheric double of the psychical body which exactly as the psychical body which, of course, is again is the mold in which the holy archangels are building the psychical body. And we build our psychical body also because we have explained that. And then we have the mind body, the noetic body. Now in the noetic body we have the lower and the higher and I will explain it now. The lower is the world again of forms in which the ideas are expressed as forms. So, when I say the etheric double of the noetic body is that in between the lower mind and the higher mind and not beyond that. Q: I understand that. D: What is the difference between the lower mind and the higher mind? When I am using elementals, creative now elementals, pure thought forms as angels, I am using the mind making it into forms but, again, behind that I have the formless principles which it’s not easy to understand unless you have the forms. So, that etheric double is in between. To make it more to explain. When I tell you what’s whiteness? What can you understand? Nothing. Said concentrate in whiteness. You cannot do that unless you are advanced of course. If I tell you see a white sheet a paper even(?) you can see it easily because you have seen white sheets of paper. And I said, oh, see the white wall. You have seen painted walls green, yellow, or red and you have seen white walls. Easily we will can close your eyes and see a white wall. If I tell you, oh, see a white cloud on the sky, you will turn your eyes to the sky and see the bluish sky and you will see a white cloud. See a white mass of snow. Not very difficult to see a white mass of snow. Now I will tell you see whiteness. Can you see whiteness without seeing it on something? And if whiteness didn’t exist how we could have a white cloud or a white wall or a white sheet of paper? So, people say going from the concrete to the abstract. No, I don’t like that word. What does it mean abstract? I say going from the phenomena to the reality. For me it’s much better that way because when people call it abstract it means nothing to them. But for me it’s the reality. Now, if I tell you what’s sweetness? What do you understand? If I put a little sugar or honey or something and tell you put your finger there. Now taste it. Do you know what sweetness is? Of course now I know. And I know what is sweetness is not what is sour or salty because you know the world of differences of the opposites. But
what’s sweetness without having something sweet to taste? Now, if I tell you what’s love? Again, the most disputed word. And I say God is love. And I say Spirit is love. You are love. What you understand what’s love? When I say life and love how could you understand what’s life or love if you don’t see people living, going about and animals living and plants living? So, we come from the reality to the phenomena, not from the abstract to the concrete. And you will understand that when you reach that point of entering in the realities. You can never understand before gaining your self-super-consciousness. And you cannot understand it by seeing through the five senses but by becoming. You cannot know what’s love if you are not love. You cannot understand what’s truth, the Absolute Truth. The relative truth you can see it all around here separate it from what you call an I. It’s a true thing, it’s golden thing and when I see something which is not golden I know the truth is that this golden while this is not. You study the relative truth in the world of the phenomena but what’s the truth? If you don’t realize that you are the truth you cannot understand what’s truth. Now, I gave certain words that people pass over them very lightly. Attunement and at-one-ment. Somebody told me the other day what’s the difference between attunement and at-one-ment, sir? Great great difference. Attunement means feeling one with something else. That means vibrating on the same tune. And again in attunement you have two points: you and the thing to which you will attune yourself to know it. Can I have two points now? You and the thing to attune yourself to it. At-one-ment means becoming one. You become that one. Can we learn the same thing by attunement and at-one-ment? No. By attunement you can know much much more than you can know with knowing through the five senses. Yes, it’s a step forward. But by attunement (I believe he meant to say at-one-ment here), becoming one, you know everything in an instant. Of course I cannot explain more. You must have in the direct experience to separate these two states. In attunement you don’t need to have what I call the super-consciousness, self-super-consciousness. But in at-one-ment definitely it is through the self-super-consciousness you will know. These are qualities of the self-super-consciousness.
37’50”
D: Yes.
Q: Sir, is it fair to say that when one touches the Absolute Truth that there will always be the quality of bliss with that? D: Now, when you touch the Absolute Truth it’s attunement. When you become the Absolute Truth it’s at-one-ment again. Now that’s what I meant. What does it mean touch? Approach. Try to understand as something different from you. Yet you must
know much more than you can know with any other means. I mean thought because thought, thinking are very two weak wings to make you fly so high yet touch means knowing being different to that. Become one. Q: Okay. D: That’s at-one-ment. Yes?
Q: And is bliss always the quality that is presence?
D: Excuse me?
Q: Last week you mentioned bliss.
D: Yes.
Q: Is bliss always the quality that will be present when one is at one with the Absolute Principle?
D: Now, what do you mean by bliss now? Because in bliss we find various degrees. Pleasure. Pleasing. Satisfying. More pleasure. And God. And you will call it bliss. Yes. By attunement you will reach the highest degree of bliss.
Q: By attunement.
D: By attunement. By at-one-ment you don’t have any bliss. You become the beatitude. What’s the beatitude now? Beatitude means self abundance. You don’t need anything to feel the pleasure and feel the bliss. You become the bliss. This word Christ said our beatitude. It is in Latin. I don’t know how you call it. That’s beatitude. I don’t think they are using any other word. Do you?
Q: Beatitude.
D: Well, beatitude is not bliss because, again, bliss is the highest pleasure but you have two points: you and the pleasure. While in beatitude you have the self-abundance. You don’t need anything. You enter in your own nature as an ego-spirit-self-super-consciousness.
41’00”
D:Yes?
Q: Can I really find out all my elementals? D: Your?
Q: My elementals.
D: Definitely.
Q: Because I think here is my subconsciousness and here, maybe, my consciousness. And my mother maybe put some elementals and they are very much far away. Far away. How can I get to these.
D: By analyzing your emotions, your desires, your behavior, your feelings. When they come in the surface, because your subconsciousness is an ocean in which all these elementals are swimming, living in it. And in that ocean you have also good elementals and what we call evil elementals. All elementals tend to come to the surface and then dive in again. Come to the
surface until you pick them. You give them more energy to have the strength. Be careful to see them coming to the surface. Then when they come to the surface be on the alert. Say come on, come. Now, now I know you. I analyze you and I can do whatever I like with you. So, it’s not difficult to come face to face with your elementals. Very very easy. Only you need observation.
Q: You’re sure every elemental comes to the surface?
D: Definitely. Definite. Now, an exercise you will do sometimes is this. Stand still. Relax completely. When you relax completely don’t think yourself anything but just be careful what comes to the surface. What you will find out? That to the surface are coming many many thoughts of the past, your behavior, your desires, this and that. For some time do nothing but observe that is what I mean observation. Seeing what comes in your mind. That means in the surface of your consciousness. Don’t check them. Let them come and go just to get the habit of observation. Because you need to get the habit of observation. Not only we get the habit of creation or calling to the surface and revitalizing with your interest elementals but also keep completely still, blank, wait to see. You will see coming to the surface many many things. You will think you bring them. No, they are coming in the surface. See them and let them go. Get the habit, say, ten minutes. Sit quietly, completely relaxed, and observing what comes in my mind. When you get that habit the course of time you will know what comes from the subconsciousness in the surface and what you create consciously. That means revitalizing elementals coming to the surface. This is the way just to recognize things. Now, especially by doing that you will see the egoism coming to you, being a devil as an angel of light because it will come to the surface presenting things, reasoning them to you. While you will say no, no. I will reason, not you. So, it is by observation that we will come to know the reality and the truth. So, do this exercise from time to time. Sit peacefully. Relax completely the body. Relax completely your emotions and everything. Stop feeling anything, being slave of any feeling or any desire or anything. Cease the mind coming as thoughts and start observing attentively. What will come in the surface. DOn’t start catching it up. Leave it. See it, let it come and go. Come and go. Come and go. Come and go. Just nothing more to do than observation during this ten or fifteen minutes. Put an alarm clock there to know that you have done it for quarter of an hour. Or for ten minutes. Or five minutes. This will make you tired. Attentiveness, that’s the word I think, there is not another, makes you tired. Nevermind. You get the habit of becoming a master of controlling what comes to the surface of your consciousness. Do it daily. You want do it ten
minutes daily. In ten minutes what I call introspection in the night when you go to sleep is the obligation of every member of our circles. To bring in the surface at night before getting to sleep an event of the day and check his or her behavior and see what they said which should not be said. What they did, what they should not do. Being slaves of circumstances and of their egoism.
End Tape