1990.01.23 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. Transcription by rhr
00’00”
Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed by thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory forever. God of life, love and mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love to you and to all other human beings. Amen.
Today, the lesson will be a general lesson as a guide for those who want to advance in this, I call it science. This lesson, I dedicate with great, great love to his Excellency, the Ambassador of Germany, his wife, and their children I love very much.
Now, people are coming to me very often, after reading many many many books for years. Philosophy of this, reading yoga books, metaphysics, even books as they call it, on hermetic science. Spending money and time. They come to me from all parts of Europe and America. They are asking for Spiritual Upliftment, as they say, or psychical development, something like that, and when I ask them just to describe to me what they mean, they don’t know what to say. What is Spiritual Upliftment? Or Psychical development? I give a better name: self-realization. This is the aim, to know what we are, and who we are. What’s nature, what’s God. What’s the Absolute Beingness.
We don’t guess but, speaking about the Absolute Beingness or God now, what has that to do with self-realization? Definitely it has, because our real self is it. The Light. The aim is the at-one-ment with the light. The at-one-ment with the Absolute Beingness. Yes, of course, that means self-realization. Then, how we start? We start with what is tangible, and that’s our material body. Nobody is in doubt that he has a material body, through which he or she expresses the self. Which self now?
The second state. You find what we are really. Are we the material body? Or the material body is simply the means through which we are expressing a kind of self, not our real self, the self of what we call the present day personality. Such that what’s the present day personality of a man? A human being, male or female. Why they are so, male and a female
05’00”
human being? And you go, further to other steps of study for self-realization, just to achieve to that. There is much much to learn and to study.
Now, when we say ‘self-realization’, what’s a self? I had the other day a yogi from India who came to visit me. Of course he had, as he said, gained some psychical powers, metakinesis of articles and this and that by training himself in a certain yoga system. And then, he asked me “Sir, do we really have a self?” He was doubting if he had a self. And I said, “what do you mean, asking me if we have a self?” Definitely we have a self. But if that self you mean the consciousness, of your present day personality, that’s the shadow of the self. Yet the shadow, the image, is the likeness of the truth reflected in that image.
Of course, according to the eastern systems of study and philosophy, of course I respect Buddhism. I like Buddhism, and I like the system they call the ‘eight fold noble path’, which is also in the Bible, in the New Testament. Nothing new. So I respect it. In Buddhism there is much misunderstood. They speak about a state resembling to nonbeing. They call it Nirvana. And when of course, you ask them, “What do you mean by Nirvana?” Of course they cannot say anything but the only thing you may suspect they mean is a kind of nothingness. That’s why that fellow asked me if, really, sir, do we have a self? And of course, I had to explain to him, “what do you mean by a self?”
And what do I mean by self-realization? Knowing that we are the self. Definitely we don’t have a self, we are the self. Nothingness, as they say in Nirvana, I said “Look here, everybody, every night, no matter if he’s a Hindu, a Greek, a German, an English, a French, or something like that, enters in that phenomenical nothingness, but not really. I said, “don’t you
have what we call dreamless sleeping?” He said, “yes, of course”. I said, “I don’t, myself. And I’ll teach you the way if you like.” To live self-consciously, all the time, to that we should achieve.
Now everybody is entering into a state of a phenomenical nothingness, yet, next day, they wake up to find themselves as he was before getting to sleep. [Marielle May?], George is George, Alex is Alex.
10’00”
Who is telling that fellow who woke up, from the bed, after lying his material body, on his bed, and passing certain time in this phenomenical yet not real nothingness? The body? The body has it’s own life. The body was living all the time. He was breathing, as a body, all the time, the heart was beating, the blood was circulating, and all the functions of the material body were there. Metabolism, anapolist, [unint.] everything, everything.
Or I say something else. During this time, one presented in this phenomenical nothingness, the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels were working in that material body to repair damages. To make the body rest, and all that. So, next day, the morning, that man or woman are waking up. They say they are conscious. Do I mean that waking self realization? Definitely, no. It isn’t the self realization, the wakening up, because that self is reflected sub-consciously. And the whole day people are living in a subconscious way. Without realizing who they are. They are simply living in a material body.
Now what’s our one, as we said just afternoon, [true?]. To start studying our material body, what it is, why this and why that takes place in the material body. Why do we have this form, we call the human form? What’s it for? What’s life in a form? What does the phenomena of life all around, living forms? So one should get the habit of searching, and I said in a lesson, one should be a burning question, burning until he will find the solution for what that fellow is searching to know.
So, now we find that we live in communities, in the various nations all over the planet. And we call ourselves ‘human beings’, which definitely are very very different from all the animal life around us. Animals are living, plants trees are living, what’s life now? We have to study what is life. What is taking place all around us. And, for what? We should know we
are living in this environment on the planet in the world we call the world of the three dimensions, but other forms of life are living all around us, in the animal kingdom, the vegetable, plant kingdom, the depths of the seas, the air. We requite this, the manifestation of life. Why do I say ‘manifestation of life’? And I don’t say life? Life is everywhere. But I have now, life manifested in forms. And unless there was The Life in reality, I wouldn’t
15’00”
have any manifestation of that life in what we call living forms all around us, the phenomena of life. You have to study what are the phenomena of life. And this phenomena of life are change in circumstances. What’s a phenomenon of life, on the material plane, what’s matter again? What to know what is matter, uses though, day and night. Not only speaking about it, but we use it feeding ourselves. Everything we take, is matter. What’s matter? What is matter to the phenomena of life?
Now we have to study, from the material point of view, the material body. Serious study. It’s not difficult now because anatomy and the orthodox science made for us already everything, yet there are many many other things the orthodox science to discover. What’s anabolism, catabolism, metabolism. They can’t say yet. Yet this phenomenon in a human body, and in any body of a living creature around us was taking place from the time of creation until now. Who’s responsible for that expression, most wise?
Now, by studying, once you have the means to study and know more and more and more and more, you come to a point, now, I am living in a material body, yes, my body, I touch it, I breathe, I move it about, I feel, there is something in this body. The heart beats, what’s movement now, what’s motion? What are vibrations? Which are really my life as a phenomena in the material plane? So we have to concentrate, meditate, and study, being ourselves that burning question, asking for an answer, a reasonable answer.
Then, willingly or not we divide ourselves, the petty self, into two parts. The one, seeking to know, and the other, learning. We find a dual shadow of the self. Now, this is the real point we have to study and learn. Am I this body? Until now, I think that I am the body. Yet, what do I know about this body, the functions of this body? What takes place in this body?
How this body is kept, in what you call a healthy condition? So, I live in this body, yet I am not this body. I may call it ‘mine’, but not myself. I am something different from the material body.
Then we start meditation. To know.. To know? What’s that again? Who will know? You think if you start thinking to know this or that,
20’00”
this is the body, or you, who tends to know who is that entity searching to know? Are we the result of life in the material body only. Everybody around us, near us has a body. Yet, all around us are not having just this attitude of learning, knowing. Then who am I now? I said “I”, I am. And making the mistake so show in a material body, yet I am not a material body, but who am I now? Can I study this petty self of mine and call it myself yet, which is the shadow of myself? Who am I? To find it out, I must start meditating, concentrating, and observing what is taking place in my so-called self consciousness of the present personality. We must start just from this point. What am I, now?
See now, who am I now, what am I now? That means a fellow who tends to know, to know whom? His expression. Now we must start observing and meditating on our behavior. On the behavior of every human being in any age, around us. You say child, new-born child. When born, starts growing, necessity - I call it like that - draws his attention, here and there. In the beginning, the presence of the mother, the breast of the mind, to catch it, and take milk, to live. [Unint.] has this with male or female, any animal is doing all around us. This is what we call the need to survive. But we don’t stop to that while growing as human beings, different from the animal life all around us.
When this shadow of the self we call ourselves grows, we start to behave in a different way. I want to know that. And I have the means to know that. By concentration, by observing it, even subconsciously. Then, you will come to another point, you ought to have that. Why? What makes that fellow, boy or girl at the beginning to have the wish to have that, and call it ‘mine’?
And then we see other different expressions of that personality… further to ‘I want that’, ‘I will have that’. I must find means to have that. So at first I
see the vibrations I call wish, desire. Then I go forward, how? To have that I must use now the Mind to find ways of having that.
25’00”
Then you must start to see, I see two things now: the wish to have, and the wish how to have it. Now we come in touch with emotion, desire and thought, combined. Where this thing is taking place in the material body? Definitely no.
Because the material bodies of all men and women are the same, yet their desires and their expressions and the ways of thinking is not the same. So this what we call the shadow of our I-ness, the self, is not the product of the material body. So we find that we are a very different entity than the material body, and we see that our material body has has a kind of sub-consciousness of itself, independently from our subconsciousness or consciousness. I don’t say self-consciousness, yet, because what we express ourselves now, sub-consciously, rather not say ‘unconsciously’, is not our real self. It is the shadow, the image of ourself on the mirror we call matter.
So, who am I now? Living, growing, feeling, expressing now as self which is not our ego, it is our egoism, it is the sum total of the elementals, of our impressions which form now, a kind of self which in reality is not ourself. It is the present day personality, yet that present personality I said in previous lessons is the sum total of the elementals of our emotional thought forms or thought forms. And the quality of this present day personality of each one of us is the quality of those elementals. What’s an elemental? Now I can catch them and study them. I feel them. I want that or that or that. There is much power behind them, even to torture us. Either to give us a kind of satisfaction or to lead us to despair. And what’s despair, and what’s satisfaction?
Conditions. How are these, I’ll call them feelings, of satisfaction or dis-satisfaction, or despair, what we see by studying them? Desires. I don’t call them now emotions. Because emotions are on a higher scale. Desires. Of having, getting, sowing ourselves. You have just to study all these things happening in what we say our present day personality. What are desires, are all desires the same? No. There are many many many kinds of desires, and many elementals created having as their backbone
the desire. Which desire? You are living, seeing things around us, now what’s the desire now, of having, getting, so as fellows as researchers after truth must analyze carefully, his or her
30’00”
expressions, and study them. We must face the desire in all it’s expressions to find what, that every kind of desire is evil? No. Not every desire, but many, or most of them, if we don’t call them evil, I call them torturing and unnecessary.
Then you come to another point. A desire may be fulfilled, and we have that, calling it ‘mine’. As long as we had the desire, that desire was really torturing us. Whether we knew it or not, just drawing our attention, making us feel sometimes exhausted and tired. Yet that desire was not making us realize it’s strength and influence it had over us. That desire is fulfilled, with one way, or the other. What is that that desire after being fulfilled is offering us? Happiness? Definitely, no. Happiness cannot be found on this material plane. Satisfaction? Yes. May have the illusion of being satisfied. Of I have coming a satisfaction, because the same desire being fulfilled in many people are not giving the same satisfaction or dis-satisfaction. It depends upon the already existing in the subconsciousness elementals.
So, no desire is giving a permanent satisfaction, and when fulfilled, it gives you a kind of feeling tired of it. As it’s fulfilled, and immediately another desire comes forward. Fulfilled again, an other one, and another one, and the desire already fulfilled is losing completely it’s interest. Why? All the desire of having that, to place it there, and then forget about it. And wish something else, and something else, and something else.
Suppose a desire is not fulfilled? To many people who are obstinate, it gives despair. So it is not true that desire is torturing devil, until it will leave us exhausted. And this exhaustion is dis-energizing that elemental, doing it in the cosmic consciousness, if it’s not fulfilled, it will come back again, and come back again to torture, unless we realize, by knowing the nature of the desires, what desires can offer, what desires are, and who we are and why should we torture ourselves or allow desires to torture our selves. This is it.
So the main thing for a researcher after truth is to study the behavior of his lower self, we call desire. Then emotions. Emotions are desires not only in having material things. Now we must start to distinguish the nature of desires.
35’00”
And we come to another conclusion now. So that a desire to be fulfilled or be known, must make use of the Mind, as thought, to think about it, and to think how to fulfill that desire. We are thinking personalities. Not all of use the same way, but we are thinking. We have that power of using the Mind to form it into Thought forms, see them, sub-consciously though.
Now, I give you an example. When someone sees something, he has a desire of knowing it. When that something is known, then will be the desire of having it, or not being interested in it. But mainly of having it. Now subconsciously, we have, not the image, the idol, let us call it like that, of that thing in us. Interest in something is making us concentrate and observe that thing we wish to have. You see a boy, twenty, twenty two years of age, seeing cars going about, three people or four people just driving fast. You have the selection part, a very lovely car. “I wish I have one.” “I want to have it.” “But how I will have it?”
Now, the desire is shaking him. I want to have it. I heard a fellow, who’s quite a poor fellow, he got a job giving him so much money as to be able to live. He knew all the marks of the motorcar. This is Fiat, this is Jaguar, this is that, this is that, this is BMW. I said, what’s going on”, then again laughing, I said, “what’s going on with all that?” [I went with jus…?] to see how he was thinking, what’s the difference? “Ohhh, great difference. That car does this, this, something else and that and that and that.” “Don’t you think it’s wasting time in knowing all this types of cars? And which is the best”, I said, “car?” “Well, they are very costly maybe sometimes 45 thousand… That did nothing.” “And you wish to have one?” “Well, now, there are also the BMWs and they have so much and so much and so…” “Oh, is that so?” “yes.”
One day I saw him with a BMW. Said, curious. He gets very little money, how is he driving the BMW? He informed me “it’s mine.” Said, “Really? Are you sure that’s yours, or you are his? How did you manage?” He says so, “no. I forced my father to put in my name a piece of land, and I
sold it and I owe to pay so much money.” “And how you’ll pay this money?” “Oh, I will, I’m having a second job.” “And work?” He said, “look here.”
40’00”
If I would see a judge, or a rich man having business in that car,” Said, “Of course. Have the right to drive this car and live. Seeing you, I said. [unint.] secretary, having this BMW, and your boss has a very cheap car. Everybody will laugh at you, I said. “Look here”, he said, “I thought you were my friend. But now I see that you are not friend to me.” Said, “Why, I am your friend. ‘Cause I want to open your eyes. How much you will spend just to maintain this car, and move it about?” Said, “No, I don’t use it. Going to my job, I get the bus, or I go on foot.” “Yes” “But in the afternoons”, he says, “I take it around the town, and then I bring it home. So they will see me driving in the BMW.” “And laugh at you?” “Why laugh at?” “Definitely. If you would buy that car after 15 or 20 years after getting a good job, somebody will say that deserves that car.” “Listen, I knew you were not my friend.” “Look, see now here. You know what happens now to you? You have been the slave,” I said, “of tins.” “Are you thinking of this BMW all the time you are working?” “Yes, of course. How will come home and take care of it, not a fool.” “A car is to be used to carry us here and there. Now be our master and we be it’s slave.
What I mean to say, when desire is presented in one’s present day personality, it should be checked and be controlled, and we should use a reason. Not just by seeing something, knowing that something yes of course, being interested in that, to wish to have it, and now, what does it mean to have it? What is this again, feeling of possessiveness? Do we really possess the things we think we are possessing or, they are possessing us?
Because everything has an elemental. Are the things ours, or we are the slaves of the elementals in those things? Now, losing them. What do we feel then?
So, everything taking place around us in ourselves, the shadow of ourselves, the present day personality is causing what we call desires, emotions and passions, fixed ideas, very very strong, torturing elementals. Where are all those emotional thought forms or thought forms in our body
and in our body but mainly, in what we say our etheric double of the material body. There is the seat of our sub-consciousness for everything concerning material things and material objects. Only there. But we said, these are desires, and all desires, emotions are the vibrations of our psychical body.
So, they are in our psychical body - so called psychical body -
45’00”
and in our thought bodies, the mental body - the noetic body, the lower, yes, not the higher, because those thoughts, serving emotions, and desires, and passions, and weaknesses are slaves of emotions. In the lower mental worlds, yes, you will find them. Now, where is our present day personality hearing of George, Andrew, Mary, Alice? It is the combination of our lower mental body of our psychical body and our material bodies. This is what we call the present day personality. This is what we make the mistake to think that it is our self. Our I-ness, our Ego. What is this then, if it’s not our Ego? Our egoism.
And now we have to make the distinction, standing before the three-fold mirror, which is matter, emotional, noetical. How destructive we see ourselves standing in front of this mirror? This is thought itself we see reflected. It’s our egoism. [Shall we be leaving now?]
46’57” [end of side]
Now, we see ourselves in a mirror, three faces mirror, one is matter, [materially?], the other is psychical face on the mirror - our emotions - and the third side is what we call mind-slave of emotions, which combine our present day personality [in the shuwi-tap?] image, we make the mistake to think it is ourself, yet we are not that self. Now looking in those faces of the mirror, they tell you “who are you?” Show you quite a meal… Show you the material body…psychical, your emotions….or the mind. I say no. That’s the illusion. If I get a hammer and break that mirror - this is what God is doing all the time, by what we call ‘death’ or passing over - a necessary process in life. Ask, who are you now? Oh. That’s you! You’ll find yourself. That’s not your refections. Your reflections is not yourself. You made the mistake all these years, that you are the body that you are, your desires emotions, weaknesses, and the way of behaving, and
the way of thinking.
Now, find yourself. Not in your reflections, in the material world. So, by using now Mind, in the right way, who? Who is using the Mind now? In the right way? You. Who you? Definitely not the self you call egoism. Now you have by meditation, concentration, observation to separate yourself
50’00”
from egoism. How will will do that? Is it easy? Very very easy, if you decide to find the truth. Yes there is. Now, look at an example. I had lately a fellow. Now he’s a good researcher after the truth. Father of four children. Before six months, gambling, smoking, very much coughing, being in very bad health, just expecting to close his shop and go to play games, not only to the gambling, but if I call it to the horse races and all that. Losing, without just judging, what’s desire, what’s this making me its slave? Going home, when children was talking with him he was [unint.]. The children could not speak. You are not a good father at all, beating the children. Chasing what? And the neighbors told me, he was going in the yard insulting God, because he lost money in gambling. ‘Cause one day, he came to me, ‘cause I knew much about him from the neighbors, even his wife. His name was Andreau. He said “what do you want from me?” “An advice” Advice? What? “What shall I do when we are gambling to know the cards of the others opposite?” I started laughing. Now, what do you think that this will serve you in what? Said, “Sit there. Either if you gain, you are stealing the money of the others. Why do you gamble? Come. What is gambling, smoking, and this kind of life you are living offering you now? A very bad temper and a very bad health. Cussing. Broken nervous system. Beating your wife and each in turn.”
He started crying. To him, this is what I am aiming at, cry. You made so many times your wife cry. And the children crying. And the neighbors cursing you going out insulting God because you haven’t gained I think, this and that. [unint.]
What happens in him? Though he was expressing a self-egoism, something inside him was telling him, ‘No. That’s not good. You shouldn’t do that.’ I said, “Look here, why your hand is full of blood?” “Because I beat my wife very very badly and I repented ended up striking
my hand on the wall.” “And you do it with your hand.” Yes, I started laughing, said “Is that true love, Sir?” He said, “definitely.” “Thus why?” “Because you are waking up. You know what’s wrong, you know what’s good.” He came to me and said, “Help me.” [unint.] I said, “Yes.” First started teaching him many many many things. This happened before 6 months. Now, he said, Gentlemen, his wife says, “Oh my husband is very sweet and handsome now. I love him.” The neighbors started changing their behavior toward him. The children are not afraid of him. They jump on his knees, he’s kissing them, and he’s teaching them their lessons. He became patient.
55’00”
Now, who was before six months and who he is now? Not Andreau. Yes! The same Andreau, yet but we see the difference now. Seeing an egoistic, foolish personality, now I see a reasonable man. Good father. Good husband. And a good man in the society. I tell him said now, “Let us make now a comparison, what you were and what you are now and how you are now!” “Sir I know I have killed as you said egoism within me.” “But you [unint.] look here, being egoist, a fool, and gambler and all that, who’s in that fellow [looked die?] He is definitely that, it was you. Definitely that was you, yet it was not you exactly as you are today.”
Now what we mean by spiritual upliftment all psychical development and all that? [Evaring?] is not the self-realization. Now, self-realization, how? How? If somebody will come and give you a jewel, shining, what’s your first [test?] To see if that’s gold? Of something looking like gold. What we are saying. Find the quality of it. Here it will happen with everyone’s present day personality but a man will do it is not the neighbor. You don’t allow citicism or judging. Each one has the right to judge and criticize not even himself, but his behavior. I didn’t all him to criticize or judge himself when he came and said, “how stupid and a fool I was!” Oh, I said, “You don’t have the right to judge and criticize yourself because yourself, your I-ness, even dressed in very dirty clothes, that was you.” I explained to him the parable of the prodigal son. Being the keeper of the swine, he was the prince. So don’t judge yourself because that [ahh eee?] of George, before 6 months and the ‘I-am” again, George, or Andreau, after six months is the same.
You are what, now? You came to self-realization. Now, you know who
you are. These are the first steps for self-realization: Knowing the truth - one has to know what he is now as a clean present-day personality, and how he was before. He has to learn that apart from his material body he has now a more-clean etheric double. He has to know about his psychical body, his emotion, his desires, his weaknesses, his behavior. For him now, the psychical body is a reality because he can handle it. He has to learn the etheric double of the psychical body, who joined the psychical body and the material body through the mind body. Has to study what is thought. He may now study his behavior, that mean what use of thought he was making all this time. What kind of elementals he was creating, sending,
60’00”
and coming back to him in his subconsciousness. So, now we clean the self, its shadow we call ourself, which is not ourself in reality. What I am telling all those following the lessons of our circles, to kill egoism. Egoism has to be killed. To put another way. All evil thoughts to say emotion, desires, and emotion thought-forms, to be disenergized and all those elementals to be sent to the cosmic consciousness there, in the records there. So free ourselves from our torturers, which are our, our offsprings, our creations.
Now for the self realization, the serious work is to know what’s Mind. And we say Mind, everything is Mind, even matter is Mind. But now know all the rates of vibrations of Mind. Knowing the worlds, material world, so called psychical world, the noetical world, so know who we are, and where we are living. The first, we are say a sinful present day personality torturing itself, living in the material world, most stupidly. But now you who knows this is not the same I, the same self. Yes, that’s his shadow. Now the slave is realizing that he’s a prince. Not a slave. But getting rid of the swine he was keeping that means the elementals. He must learn the art of creating creative elementals instead of elementals torturing or destroying.
What more? Now he will find that really, I’m not a weak, human being. Making the mistake that my self was only my material body. And living and expressing myself only in the material body, and through the material body. He must then ‘what are the senses?’ What is vision, and sight? Two different things. Sight mean seen through the material eyes to a certain distance only and seeing things distorted by the distance. What’s
vision now? Another kind of sight, with knowing, knowing the truth. So, what we call ‘sight’, will become clairvoyant. But not a conscious clairvoyance… self-conscious clairvoyance.
At the beginning, seeing that genitive? impressions is not only through what we call sight through the eyes, but I can, through projection, see things and feel things. See things and feel things that are occurring my psychical body also. What happens in many places, many miles away. That is projection. Spreading. And this is what I call now ‘conscious projection’. Even that’s not no [fit?] enough you want self-conscious projection. A stage above. And what we find?
65’00”
That, in this way, we become the masters of our environment. And our environment is not only our home and the neighborhood only of the material plane, but we enter, consciously, through what I call exosomatosis, to the psychical world. And we said the psychical world after study, observation, meditation and living consciously and self consciously in the psychical world is seven planes and each plane another seven subplanes, making what we call ‘hells’ or ‘paradises’. Not ‘a hell’ and ‘a paradise’ - hells and paradises. Many conditions.
A fellow passes over to the other side. The other side is here again. Not a matter of place, or space. Passes over, let us say, to the other side. Can he visit all the planes and sub-planes of the psychical world? No. He will find himself in that sub-plane he is vibrating already in his psychical body.
He cannot go above it, because he is not the master of his emotions and his thoughts. Can a so-called invisible helper of our circles, self-consciously now, not only consciously self-consciously visit all these sub-planes of the psychical world, and even the sub-planes and planes of the noetical world? Yes, he can. By right of knowing the truth which liberates him from the bondage of illusions. He can enter in any hell, and any paradise. Are the hells so dreadful as a locality as we think they are?
No. Believe me, in those sub-planes, people call the hells ‘things are very very nice’. Less light to suit the development of those souls who are living there. They are very nice. Because everything is in God, as a place. Is
not ‘our’ material world very very nice? Full of flowers, trees, very very lovely things. Light. So are even the hells of the psychical planes. Good and beautiful. But. Do those who have passed over and are there notice all that? See these things? Care about these things?
No. And I put you a question. While they were on earth, here, were they interested in all beautiful things around them? Or they were closed in a shell of their own creation, suffering?
A man is working for a year, just to get seven days leave and money to go to the country, to the mountains to enjoy himself. So, going there for that week, he listens to the singing of the birds, feels the breeze on his face, sees the beauty of the trees, breathes the fresh air, he’s in that lovely landscape and scenery. In the next room of the same hotel, there is a one very rich fellow in his hellish shell, ready to commit suicide. Nothing around him is satisfying him.
70’00”
And he commits suicide. Now we should tell that many that commit suicide without knowing why they do that. And for what reason. So, even in this world the three dimensional world, the material world, people are in their hells or in their paradises. And no one, by passing over, will find himself in any hell or in any paradise he is not already, due to his vibrations.
So, what is now self-realization? Knowing things. Disentangle ourselves from the enchantment not only of the material plane but even of the psychical and the noetic, and become the masters of matter and Mind. Become masters of matter and Mind? Free from illusions of the present-day personality. Realize who we are.
No one thinks he live as egoism express himself as an egoism can claim to call himself god. A devil? Maybe. But even so, he is not the devil because he has in him the Ah-Ee-ness to clean it. But now, the one with what I call at-tune-ment with life, and then, going a step forward, having the expression of at-one-ment with Life becoming one with Life, one with the Infinite Beingness, what he feels? The dignity of being god.
Now, even the world ‘becoming’ is misleading. We can never become
something we are not already now. I’ll put it in a more correct [al?] way. Realizing that he is god. This is more correct expression. Now you understand what I mean by self-realization.
I think we must close this lesson today, which I ask the wife of his excellency accept it with my love. And, I shall see here now certain patients for the rest of the time.
73’29” end of lesson.