Part B
So, we must study the nature of these elementals and the strength the power they have. They much more strength and power than you think. They have tremendous force behind them. So, what we have to do? Just to see circumstances all around us. Learn the circumstances all around us all people are living. Study what is now the phenomenon of life as a human being in any part of the world. Everywhere. And what we have? That being under the force of these elementals we are always going towards the destruction. Wars. Killing. Destroying. Hating. Enmity. Feeling that devilish within us elemental we call revenge. Now, revenge. I will say something. The revenge is a fruit very very very sweet to the taste, but very bitter in digestion. You must know that. I repeat it. The fruit of taking revenge, which of course is the offspring of hatred. Hatred, what’s hatred? The offspring of wounded love. Misunderstood way of loving. So, this fruit of hatred is very very sweet in taste but very very bitter in digestion. It may lead you to despair at the end. This is, after all, the result we see all around us in the…(coughing obscures words). So, now put to you a question I have put before some days, and everybody said in yourself “Why Daskalos is putting us this question?” The question was what is life? Of course everybody was saying “Don’t we know what’s life?” I told you of course you don’t know what’s life. First of all you don’t know what’s real life and then what is the
life of the phenomenon of life as a human being on the planet. The circumstances, the way a human being is living. You have to study all these things. Well, I tell you most things you think you know, you don’t know. And you have to just think over them. Again, by using concentration, meditation, observation and reasoning and come to conclusions to the real knowledge of the relative reality on the planet. The truth. We cannot find the truth on the planet. The material world we can understand the relative truth. So, in the psychical world and in the noetical world.
5’00”
The truth is not here. The relative truth in the events and in comparison we can trace it. The relative truth concerning things. But the truth as the truth is not what you think it is. But I tell you what it is. Christ said “I am the Way.” The Way. The cause of things. “I am the Way, Life, And Truth.” He called Himself the Truth. Now, so, we’ll find the truth in the Logos, in Christ. Definitely, yes. But how? Who is Christ? Who is the Logos? The Logos as Yiohannon the Evangelist said, is the Light which lighteth every human being coming to the world. That means making him as a phenomena of life, human, expressing a self-consciousness. That’s Christ. Because Christ was and is now in every one of us because every one of us are expressing a self-consciousness. So, we will find the truth in the Logos, the expression of the Absolute Beingness. But what are we in reality apart from our present day personality? We are a being and a being is a spirit-god-self-superconsciousness. Then, where shall we find the truth? The real truth, not the relative truth in comparing phenomena and circumstances and things. The real Truth. Where shall we find it? We are the Truth as an Ego-Spirit-Self-Super-Consciousness. God. When we come to that self-realization as I call it you know what is the truth because you are the Truth. You know who is the Logos because He is you. You are in He. That we call in Greek (Greek word), At-one-ment with the Logos. That means real religion and fanaticism, dogma, and stupidities. This is the Truth. To be able to understand it and not trying to find it in earthly material adventures. That’s why the church and the dogmas now are suffering. Because they don’t present the truth. The real Truth. They don’t teach it. So, how we, the Truth now, God, the Ego-Spirit-Self-Superconsciousness, we will realize who we are. Well, it is very easy. As long as the prodigal son was the keeper of the swine he didn’t realize that and when he came back to senses, he says, “In my father’s palace many servants, archangels or archangels, are living happily and how am I living now?” How you are living as present day personalities? THe keepers of the swine. What are the swine?
10’00”
The elementals. What else we are than keepers of the swine fed by the food the swine are fed? When Christ was giving this parable he was presenting the Truth concerning our real Self, Saying that though we were guards of swine yet we were the prince who left the palace. And what is encouraging saying when the prodigal son came back to his senses, and he said many servants, servants, workers serving in the palace of my father, of the Absolute Beingness, are very very happy and I am suffering being the guard of the swine. Now I will go back home and I will ask him to forgive me and I will ask him to make me one of his servants. But when the prodigal son made a step towards his father, the father made the other nine coming and embracing him calling him come back home. He started realizing the Truth. Who he was. Now it is something else. Why did we come to this earth, then? Why did the father had allowed the prodigal son ask for his substance, that means Mind, and go away? Going away from the father. There was a reason for that. Which was the reason? Christ is telling us. When the prodigal son went back home the father dressed him the first first dress so he didn’t lose anything from his princedom. And put on his finger a ring. A ring which our brothers, the archangels of any order, do not possess. Do not have. What’s the ring? Since the Absolute Beingness is motion, movement, move around the ring and found the end of it. The ring is the symbol of eternity. And only the human being getting back home knows what is eternity because he now makes comparison of the Eternal Now with what we call past, present, and future. This was the aim, maybe, of our coming to the material world. Realizing the Truth. Realizing that we are the Truth. Did we know that we were the Truth when we were with the Absolute Beingness as beings? No, we didn’t know. We were yet we didn’t know what we were. I’ll give you an example. If a fellow is born in a room with much light, blazing light, and he is accustomed to that light, he didn’t know anything else but light, and you put him the question “What’s light?” does he know what’s light? No. Take him out to the darkness for a moment, come back. What is light? He’ll say “Now I know. Now I know what’s light.” Do you think what man knows and what man will know after having the self-realization as Spirit-Ego-Self-Superconsciousness any of the archangels know?
15’00”
No. Even if you ask them “What’s time? Was ist Zeit?” They cannot reply. I am in conscious and self-conscious contact with all the orders of the archangels and I am putting to them some questions mentally. And I say, “Now. What’s now?” Now. And always there is a Now without just
understanding that it is past, present, and future because they are out of the events. And only events and happenings are giving the sense of time and space. Even if you ask them, “What’s life?” They will not reply. We know what’s life because we know what’s the phenomena of life otherwise it is not known though we are the Life. Now I will put another question. The Absolute Beingness knows what’s life? Yes. Yes, he knows. Because He is in what we call Its self-abundance. There is nothing lacking. And because the Absolute Beingness, call him God the Father, knows everything, that’s why He meditates in the Eternal Now, creating the universes. He knows what He is doing or It knows what it is doing because the Absolute Beingness is not male or female. So, the son wanted to know what the father knew. He allowed him to go, find out, and come back. There is not such a thing as fall. Because then the Absolute Beingness, God the Father, would be very weak to allow His son go out and suffer in vain. And God is the most powerful, the almighty God. So we must understand the real Truth. And the real Truth to be understood is not easy as long as we live in the world of illusions. The material world and the psychical world and the noetical world, the world of events, the world of the various dimensions, are worlds of illusions. Time is an illusion. The Eternal Now is not an illusion. So we have that in mind. Was ist Zeit? Zeit ist eine illusion. Was ist raum? Raum ist eine Illusion. So we have this in mind. Time and space are illusions. What is not an illusion and is the Truth. Was ist die Wahrheit? The Absolute Beingness. We as Spirit-Ego-Self-Superconsciousness. So this is what we have first to understand it and then realize that we are. How? By studying things. By studying the phenomenon of life as a human being in a material world all around us. Studying nature all around us, all the other phenomena of life all around us. And then I have shown you the Way. Studying everything you can know regarding the material body that is not you. It is yours, yes, but not you. Then study your present day personality. Emotions, desires, wishes.
20’03”
Your expression in the world of the phenomena. And then thought. What’s thought? How we are using the super-substance of the mind, making it into forms. Elementals. We must study of the elementals. We said before we have the seventy five percent of the elementals as the elementals emotional, or desire thought forms. Now, we must start creating or re-energizing pure thought forms because in the cosmic consciousness it is not only what is bad or evil. It is what is also good and divine and holy. So we have to re-energize the holy elementals or create what we call elementals pure thought forms. Well I ask the Master Daskalos to give
more information, not leave you unclear. We said create thought forms. Is that all? Thought form means something having a form. Which means existing. What’s beyond existing in the world of beingness and being? Can we use the mind now from another point of view? Not as present day personalities but as soul-self-consciousnesses, yes. We will use it in what we call self-realization. Not creating or revitalizing now forms as thought forms, but as thought principles. We get from the world of the forms to the world of the laws, of the causes. But believe me this is most difficult for you even to understand. What are the...these ideas. The world of the ideas. The world of the causes, of the principles, or the laws. Yet, there is the real reality. In the phenomena are the illusions. There is the light.
23’20”
So, now your questions.
Daskalos: Yes, you were shooting your thought all the time, I know. You were very very impatient. Come on say it.
Questioner:I’ve been trying to be very good about. I wrote it down on a piece of paper so I would try not to…
D: Come on say it.
Q: Okay. What is the best way to create an elemental to help another de-energize his or her elementals? D: How to?
Q: Yes, what is the best way? If I was to work with somebody psychotherapeutically what is the best kind of way I could create an elemental to help them de-energize their…
D: Best time?
Q: Best…
D: You said the best time?
Q: Kind.
D: Ah, kind because...
Kind. Kind of elemental to de-energize to help another person.
D: Time is an illusion. Every time is good.
Q:Not time. Kind.
D: Say, well, by concentration, loving, and strong wish. Unless you have the strong wish with pure love, don’t expect much. If you have that you can make longer legs. Dissolve tumors. (Indecipherable) and even make people walk. But it needs pure and strong love first of all. And then within you, not a wish, a will. Strong will to do it. Now, of course, you must get what we call the visualization, see things happening. This is what we call visualization. You have to practice using the imprinting ether in what we say visualization. These things are needed and something else. You must
have a good knowledge of anatomy of the material body because you are going just to have a leg or a limb longer, sometimes it will be two and a half inches shorter. You will not just make the bone longer. What about veins, arteries, tendons, muscles? You have to work, not consciously, super-consciously. That means on everything at the same time. Otherwise, you will make damage. Making it longer in the bones they will have an hemorrhage. You will break the vessels. You will break the veins and the arteries. So, the time you are doing it you will materialize at the same time, not only bones, but veins, arteries, the most difficult are the tendons, the nerves. Because they are not dead things. They are like the wires which electricity would pass through them .You will not make it longer and make him feel nothing. Because you have to make the tendons and the nerves there capable of transmitting the vital energy. It is not simply just simply as you think you see. It needs much practice. How many years? Maybe some centuries. Not only…
27’15”
D: Yes.
Q: When one doesn’t want to accept your wishes how do you protect yourself?
D: Repeat the question but strongly please.
Q: When you want good wishes to another and the other party doesn’t want to accept, how do you protect yourself.
D: You should not be so insistent as to accept it because he is not ready yet or she is not ready yet but send your elemental of kindness and good wishes. It will remain in his aura until the time he will vibrate in the same rate of vibrations and he will be benefitted. So it’s not up to you when that fellow will accept your good wishes for recovery. But doesn’t mean that we will give it up. Even for a criminal or a thief for someone send your elementals there.
Q: But when he feels that I want to help him... D: You want... Q: Yes, but he hates it and he wants to destroy me…
D: Destroy you? Q: Yes, how do you protect yourself. D:By creating the relative elementals of protection. You know how once you know to create elementals you can create elementals of any quality. It is one the same super-substance of the mind you will create elementals. Create them. Since you have the stuff it’s a matter of you to decide and through visualization to create and project those elementals of course.
29’17”
D: Yes.
Q: Daskalos, may I ask you a question I know there is a new age movement in America and they teach the same as you do that we have to help ourselves (indecipherable) I am totally agreeing with them but then again they say well, we should also have the connections with the Godhead at the same time. With God. WIth God Because the churches are absolutely against it and they say there is always from Satan. Satan, the devil. D: What do you care what the others are thinking of? Q: Well I get confused because I do both. I go to the God and pray and pray and go to God and to Jesus and then in the same time I say, well, I have to help myself and I have your teaching. And I think this is the right way isn’t it? D: Yes, What’s prayer? Creating good elementals. Helpful elementals creative elementals that means prayer and now it is something I will suggest. God, or the infinite beingness created the super-substance of the mind everyone has the right to use. He did not favor some and to some he didn’t give the power of using the super-substance of the mind. That means creating elementals. Using it. You can use it. There is an elemental, very very strong elemental, which you will make your ally and friend. You know what’s this elemental? Reasoning. Logic. Ask for enlightenment and that elemental of logic and reasoning will be by your side. No need to be influenced by the ideas of others.
Q: The churches are terrible. They are all against it. D: What do you care what are all? What are you? So, one should use right reason, that’s all.
31’48”
D: Yes.
Q: Some people say that the colors black and red are bad. Can you talk about this? D: What are bad? Q: Some people say the colors red and black are bad colors. D: Why they are bad colors? Q: Can you talk about it and I want to hear what you say... D: First of all there is not a black color. It is an illusion. There is not darkness. That is an illusion. What is the reality is the light. The light is not an illusion. Now, at night, you go out and you gaze at the sky. What do you see? No clouds are in the sky. You will see the stars. What are the stars and where we have moon you will see the moon. Now we know that light comes from certain self-lighted heavenly bodies and come to us. And we see the source of the light. We don’t see the light. Or the light from the Sun of our solar system strikes on certain other heavenly bodies and is reflected by it and we see the reflection. We see the star is the reflection because these are not self-lighted star. But do you see the light going through space? The sky is
dark. You don’t see the light travelling. You see only the light, or the source of the light, or from where it strikes and is reflected. Is really darkness? No. Maybe where you see the darkness with your material eyes is the superlight. Because what makes self-lighted bodies vibrate and give light? Where from it comes? Doesn’t it come from what you think is darkness? So there is not darkness, there is the superlight. Now, what’s light? This light. Certain rate of etheric vibrations. What range of vibrations? What’s below that range of vibrations or above it? You can’t see them. Can you see what’s electricity? What’s magnetic? That’s light. But you cannot see that with your eyes because higher frequencies or lower frequencies of vibrations are not giving you the sense of light. So, what’s light? What’s black color? What science believes? Now, if you have a white sheet hanging outside to dry and a black as you call it, there the black will dry very quickly. The white not so quickly. Why? Don’t you know that what you call black color is giving more heat? It receives the light giving it as heat. Now, where is bad in what you call dark color? Red color. The red color, also other colors and other hues of colors, are the vibrations of Michael. What’s wrong with Michael? Or the blue color is the vibrations of Gabriel. The violet color of the vibrations of Raphael. The silvery color is the vibrations of Uriel. The rosy color are the vibrations of the loving Christ. Canary yellow color and the golden color are the reflections, symbolically, of the Absolute Beingness. There is not bad colors. And all colors together is the white color. Not the black color. And I gave just to do it, get a cardboard. Make it round and put the seven colors, bright colors. Paint them there, seven colors, except white. Put the seven colors then put a nail in the center. Make it move round. You will see white color. You will not see black color. Everything as color is the white color. Light. There cannot be bad color but there is a but for the psychotherapist now. What colors are necessary for certain illnesses? When you send the color light balls to them. You have a fellow who is easily getting angry, shouting, very nervous, if you send him the red color, you will make him a lunatic. Why? He vibrates strongly in the centers, stronger vibrations, you will have the phenomena. It doesn’t mean that the red color is bad because it will make an angry man furious. But if you have a fellow suffering with anemia, leukemia, and all that, you have to send him the red color to strengthen his blood. And then if you have a fellow not believing in God, not believing in Man, not believing in love, living in he’s most miserable, doesn’t believe to the Absolute Super-Intelligence, flood him with the blue color. The blue color is giving the man such vibrations as piety, concentration to something higher. To God. If you have a God loving man, he is not in need of your
blue color. He needs more reason than emotional, say, adoration. You have the golden color. So, every colors are have certain qualities and you have just to use your reason when and how to apply, that’s all. There are not bad colors.
39:33
Yes.
Q: You said several times if you believe in reincarnation. Is there another possibility?
D: It is just to satisfy the church who do not believe in that but whether you believe or not something that is, is always. So, the old church people didn’t believe that the Earth was moving around the Sun and even they convicted Galileo to death I think until he was obliged, poor fellow, to say yes, of course, since the church does not believe that the Earth is moving and only the Sun is moving to us, oh let it be so. Yet within him he felt that he was lying and when he went out he said and yet it is moving. Didn’t he? But silently not to be heard because they convicted him to death. Well, whether some church people believed or they did not believe. Now church people, calling themselves scientists, believe. They didn’t believe in the medieval times that the Earth was moving around the Sun whether people were believing or not. Well, if people believe in reincarnation or they don’t believe in reincarnation, if this is a fact, the reincarnation, it is. That’s it.
41’22” Q: Can I ask which elements are keeping the truth away such long time, I mean, D: Which elements? Q: Yes, what sustenance is keeping these truths so strongly away because it’s two thousand years since Christ. And He also gave us, the society and the church (indecipherable) the opinion of what is keeping this opinion? What gives the strength? Which elements? Which powers can hide this truth?
D: Well. Elementals. Elementals and the elements. The elements are all the time the same. Their strength is always the same. But the archangels and the Lords of the elements are giving according to the needs and the events in time. So, they are using what we call the divine intelligence and holy providence to give what they have to give according to the needs and the type. What prevents giving more? It may be divine wisdom. Yes.
43’00”
D: What is it?
Q: Yes, I have perfectly clear, it’s clear for me the difference between...
D: Now.Speak more loudly.
Q: Yes. It’s clear for me the difference between the material world and the psychical world but I don’t know the difference between the psychical world
and the lower mind/noetic world?
D: Any distance?
Q: No. The difference.
D: Now, I tell you. There is a great difference between the material world, mind matter, with the psycho-noetical world. Now, if I have separated into two worlds, psychical world and noetical world, mind world, it’s just for the sake of studying them separately but in reality they function together. Now, we have our material body, which is quite independent of our psychical and noetical body, yet the psychical and the noetical bodies are more working together. I will call it psycho,noetical because there can never be and exist any desire unless there is a thought behind it. And if a thought is away from the desire that desire annihilates its power. What did we say? If we show indifference, giving no more thought about an elemental, which is psychical most of it, we dis-energize it. This is just principle.
44’57”
Yes?
Q: You said we must create pure thought forms and then you said from the world of the form we must go to the world of laws and principles. D: To? Q: To the world of laws and principles.
D: Yes, these are not worlds of forms. These are worlds of laws/causes. It’s rather difficult even to understand it because human mind, human brains, cannot understand much what is beyond forms. And existences. Well, now, it’s a very very difficult thing to explain, no words to explain it, what is the world beyond forms. But, yet, we can trace what is the world of causes, laws. Anyhow, I know but I cannot find words to explain. There are no words. And even so if i would try to find, create new words to explain we said before you never know something you were never aware of it. Even in the material world. How shall I explain to you since you don’t know. If a fellow, before five hundred years, was trying to go to a coffee shop and try to make those peasants there having their sweet coffee and dreaming about their animals that one day a something, even describing it, will fly they will consider him a fool. <end tape>