Part B
So relax. What does it mean relax? Not only feel that the body you have succeeded that on the material body. That means cease completely every emotion, every desire, every thought. “Sir, I am afraid of that. It is as if I am dead.” But this will start your meditation, peacefully and nicely. How you are dead? “Yes, you are right.” So, don’t be too quick to start the meditation. Stay in that condition for some time. “Sir, but is it not like nothingness?” Yes, it is. What it matters? Nothingness means not receiving impressions from anything. What’s wrong in that? You are not losing yourself in nothingness. Besides who told you that in every 24 hours you are not spending some time in what you call nothingness. What’s wrong with that? Are you losing yourself? What it means a dreamless sleep? Sleeping without dreams. Just consider it. Don’t you enter in what you call nothingness every 24 hours during the night at least for some time? Are you lost? Next day the morning when you come back in your body you are what you were before getting sleep. So, you, even as a present day personality, entering in what you call phenomenal, yet not real, nothingness it’s entering in yourself to rest as a present day personality. So why should
you be afraid of that? So that’s my advice for all those who should start serious work in meditation, concentration, and observation because unless you pass through that phenomenal nothingness you cannot compose yourself as self-consciousness. Not from the very beginning, of course, but in the course of time and then you will realize what am I now? Conscious, or self-conscious. Then you will understand the difference between consciousness and self-consciousness but the beginning we should be conscious and then self-conscious. So, before starting a serious meditation, in concentration with observation, you must stop completely every desire, every emotion and every thought serving such desires and emotions. Become blank. And blank doesn’t mean empty. It means overfull because you can be anything you like any moment you like. So you are not losing anything. You will just put things aside and find yourself in the silence. “Sir, but is that not there everything dark?” That’s your imagination. There is nothing as darkness. It’s way of thinking. So, be in that condition cause unless you pass through this phenomenal nothingness and darkness you cannot see the light. The real light because what we see as light coming from the Sun is not a very limited range of etheric vibrations. Nothing more than that.
5’08”
Is there darkness? No. Everywhere is the mind and mind is light. Light as a phenomenon because real light is not the mind. It’s we. Life is light. So, we should not think as light which comes as vibrations from outside giving us certain impressions like seeing forms, shapes, and colors because unless we are light we cannot understand anything and interpret it as light. So starting the meditation we must completely relax the material body and relax our present day personality. Now the egoism will come forward to stop you. Well, it’s another opportunity of catching him and say, you keep silent. You are not me. I’m controlling you. You are afraid of being annihilated. Yes, of course. Rightly so. Because you know you are not immortal. You are the creation of the illusions of time and space. Because you are not immortal, you are all the time changing. Yet, you have a kind of instinctive subconsciousness you present yourself forward all the time but you are not me. So, aside. Which means cast away the fear. Put it from another point of view. So, relax complete your material body at the beginning. Then stop feeling anything as desires and emotions and stop thinking on anything. Feel you are in the silence and try to stay there. At the beginning it will be difficult because from your subconsciousness will jump to the surface many thoughts. Many, many, many things. Then you are coming in conscious touch with your subconsciousness. Now, one of the
meditations I suggested is stay in that condition and start observing what comes in the surface to know what is in your subconsciousness. But, be on the alert. Don’t be influenced. Don’t start vibrating, liking and disliking this and that. You are an observer now. See what comes in the surface by not allowing it to create vibrations of emotions and thoughts in you. Unless you succeed that you will not be able to understand what is self-consciousness. And I say it needs time to realize the truth. So, I gave you this exercise. Staying in the silence and just observing what comes to the surface from your subconsciousness. Just put an alarm watch near you to take you say ten minutes. You don’t need to have this exercise for more than ten minutes. And decide that after coming out of this experience and exercise I should be strong and healthy and not exhausted because your egoism will take revenge. It will protest all the time and make you feel exhausted. So, note that. Before starting order your subconsciousness that after completing this exercise I will feel strong but this after all you will have to do it all the time. That after finishing this exercise, any exercise, I will feel strong and not exhausted.
10’02”
So, if you know how to relax the body and relax your present day personality you will never feel exhausted because you attune yourself to the source of energy and of life. Where? Inside you. Another exercise which you will do it and I have promised to give it to you is what I call the exercise of good health. And most of you need it. I said that our subconsciousness is not reasoning but obeying orders and what you give it as what you call autosuggestion coming from the suggestion of others will obey it. So, beforehand make the suggestion. Nothing will influence me. I’ll not feel exhausted and I am strong because I am tuned to the source of energy. Say that and believe it because so it is. We are already attuned to the source of energy where from do we get the energy and our etheric double is all the time receiving this energy. Already we do it. So, and then start your meditation. I said that we should first of all know the qualities of our etheric double as imprinting ether, aesthetic ether or feeling ether, kinetic ether. No need to use the creative ether because you cannot do it now. It is the holy spirit and the holy archangels who are using that quality of your etheric double we call creative ether. Later, yes, this will be given you after you become the master of what I say imprinting ether, aesthetic ether, and kinetic ether. Now, the kinetic ether and the aesthetic ether are together because you cannot just concentrate on a part of your material body and then move to another feeling that you are moving to another place of your material body. So kinetic ether and aesthetic ether are
together or should be together. When they are not sometimes together we shall explain it. Now, after making your exercises with the kinetic ether and aesthetic ether living consciously in certain parts of your body, inside your body, then you must become master of what we call imprinting ether. The imprinting ether is visualization. That means closing your eyes or with open eyes revitalizing already existing forms in your subconsciousness or create new ones. How? I ask you, see that you have in your hand a lovely rose, red color.
15’05”
You have seen such things before. At least you have seen the shape of a rose. A nice rose. Especially if you love flowers. Closing your eyes you can see it. What does it mean? You have created it and you all have taken your subconsciousness that form of the rose and you have revitalized it, re-energized it. So you must get the skill of re-energizing elementals in your subconsciousness or creating new ones. What do you do? You get the formless super-substance of the mind, and with it you create a form. What the archangels are doing? Just the same thing only they materialize these elementals, these forms. This is how the universes are made and built up. So you realize what’s the work of an archangel of certain phenomena of life around you. Meditating in what we call time and space continuously using the creative energy. So what you see all around you is the meditation, constant meditation, concentration of the creative archangels, the Lords of the Elements. If they take away their attention for a minute the things will dissolve and this doesn’t happen because they know in their archangelic self-super-consciousness how to meditate constantly creating. Now you understand what is the life of the archangels? Creation. So, you can do that. An exercise to gain sometime what I call creative thought. Unless you practice and you make good use of these elementals, don’t expect the Holy Spirit to grant you what you call creative thought. So, start meditating in creating, by visualization, elementals of things you see all around you. So, become the master of visualization. Are these things we see in visualization real? Yes, more real than what we think the things existing around you are real because a rose, after some days, will dry and go away while this you have made remains in the psychical body, the noetical body forever. You can recall it, revitalize it any moment you like. When Christ said don’t thrive on the material plane treasures and things which thieves can steal from you and rats and mice can destroy it but have your treasures in the Kingdom of Heaven which is within you. These are your treasures: The art of visualization, becoming the master of the visualization, of creating what you want which no thieves can steal and no mice can destroy. So one should
have the art of visualization. That means using the imprinting ether in the right way.
20’01”
Now we start visualization. That means imprinting ether, kinetic ether, and aesthetic ether. You know your body. Of course, you know your feet. You feel them. You know your hands. You feel them. Your head, the whole body, you know it and you feel it. Then start feeling the feet from the toes to the place you are sitting. Visualization now. See them in a bluish azure light. While feeling them see them that they are in a bluish azure light. Just like that from the Symbol of Life. Now, without taking away your attention be in your belly. You’re on the solar plexus. See the belly, the whole belly, or in the belly and around your body a sphere of bluish light. And in the center of it, on the solar plexus, see the emerald green light. Now, go to the chest without leaving your attention from the feet and the belly. See the chest full of rosy light. See that on the Symbol of Life. Breathe deeply and see the rosy light in the chest. See your hands radiating the rosy light. The feet are radiating the bluish light. The hands are radiating the rosy light. Feel near your thyroid a ball of orange light. See inside your head and around your head six feet (inches?) all around your head the canary yellow light or the golden light. Now, feel the whole body and see it in this way. Bluish light in the feet. In the belly, the center of the solar plexus, the emerald light. The rosy light in the chest and in the hands. The thyroid orange light. And in the head and around the head half a foot, six inches, the canary yellow light or golden light and be there for some minutes. Then see that the whole body is in white light without influencing these colors. You see now a sphere in which you are of white light. The head in it is in canary yellow light. Inside the head and six inches around the head. Shoulders, the chest and the hands in rosy light. The thyroid - orange light. The belly - bluish light just like the sky in a summer day. In the center of the solar plexus the emerald light. Feet bluish light. Now continue your visualization. See near inside the solar plexus an emerald five pointed star. See in the heart, red and yellow inside the rosy light, six pointed star. See the head, the whole head, being in a yellow triangular pyramid. All the time you have deep, comfortable breathing and order your subconsciousness I want perfect health to be in my material body. I want and order peace and full control of myself of my psychical body - master of my emotions and desires. Then, tell your subconsciousness in your head sober thoughts, constructive thoughts must rule my life through me. My thoughts are not going to serve as slaves anymore emotions, desires, weaknesses. Feel strong and healthy materially, psychically, and mentally. This is the
exercise of good health. You can make the whole thing and remain in that elemental of good health for quarter of an hour and say I am completely relaxed and I will be healthy and strong.
27’39”
This is what I call the meditation of good health each one must practice. Daily? No need. Once you become the master of this you can do it only for two minutes. That means sit, feel everything for two minutes. Breathe deeply and repeat these words to your subconsciousness. It has to obey you. I want perfect health in my material body. Mastery over my emotions, desires, and over my thoughts. Of course you will see the result in the course of time. Of course after mastering this meditation, and creative I would call it meditation, you will have other and other exercises which will be given to you or you will find once you know now the technique of making meditation. What you need is to acquire the technique of meditation and now compare this kind of meditations we suggest with all the other forms of meditations taught by Eastern schools leading nowhere. Especially, in hatha yoga. Somebody will insist and say who practices because I have, I get two of you who have practiced long time hatha yoga, “Yes, really of course. We have achieved mastery of our bodies.” Are you sure? “Yes, of course, for years. On one occasion it is five or six years I receive…”
30’03”
If you are provoked you are sure you are not getting angry? Did you master really your emotions? It’s not just what we believe. It’s what it will be really because not semi-hypnotizing ourselves to believe that we have achieved success. I had a fellow who was for 60 or 70 years a Rosicrucian. He claimed and told me “Yes, I have finished all the monographs and I know and I know and I know and I know…” I said yes, let me see what you know and I will tell you what you know. What he had succeeded? To develop his egoism, nothing more than that. Knowing and knowing and knowing believing that he is knowing all things. Well, after a little I left him talk and talk and talk for half an hour and then I told him, look here. What I understand is you were a fool and you still remain today fool. What you say is all nonsense. He didn’t know that I was putting him in a trap. He got up and said, “Daskale, I had a better idea for you. Are you sure I am the silly one or you are the silly one?” I said what do you think? “You are silly and a fool and not myself.” I started laughing. I said what did you learn all these years with your Rosicrucians? Not to control your anger? If you are clever enough you say why is Daskalos telling me that? Why is he provoking me? “Yes,” he says. “I have fallen in the trap.” I said look here. Sit now and start meditation and try to control, I said, your emotions. And just put in order
your egoism. That’s why I suggest all the time we should kill our egoism because a devil who will present itself as an angel of light while it isn’t an angel of light. Then the egoism is more dangerous, especially if it will make you believe that you are an avatar. Don’t laugh. Or a master. Have that in mind. Yes, I repeat: the devil presents itself as an angel of light yet binding you, binding you now more. So we must be very very careful of the egoism and I still insist that the egoism should be killed so that we be free to realize who you are. After you kill your egoism you will feel in its place self-dignity knowing who you are. No one can say that he achieved to reach the stage of self-realization, real self-realization before killing the shadow in time and space which is his egoism. Now of course I don’t expect from you to put me the question “What remains, Daskale, after that?” Everything remains. The egoism is not yourself first of all and is not really everything worth having. What’s good having is the self-realization. Yes. Now, those who will stay to the lessons on Monday we shall speak more on how we can create elementals constructively. Study more about elementals and how to re-energize them or create from the beginning.
34’48”
Now your questions.
Questioner: Yes. Daskale, in about two lectures ago you mentioned the word super-matter. Is super-matter the same as matter-substance? Daskalos: Super? Q: You said matter, super-matter, substance, and super-substance... D: Yes, matter. We know what’s matter. Super-matter is our etheric double. And then we have what you call substance. And substance is the psychical body. Now, super-substance, in reality, is the noetical body. How we shall call the in-between, which means the etheric double of the psychical body? We don’t have any words to say that because it is substance. In between substance and super-substance etheric reality? Yes, maybe. And then you have the super-substance which is the mind. And now we said in a lesson that the super-substance of the mind, the noetical world and those who are all noetic body, is what we call the world of forms and the world of the ideas and causes. Now, we have explained yesterday what it is. If I put you the word whiteness is it not an abstract thought? It’s more concrete than the concrete thought forms. The word abstract means nothing to me. So, the world of ideas is not a world of abstract meanings because it is the power, the energy, the law, the cause of everything so how it can be abstract? So, I told you yesterday what’s whiteness? You cannot know unless you have long long practice to know what’s whiteness. But it’s easy for you to know what’s a white wall, white
sheet of paper, a white cloud, a white mass of snow. Now it’s just to understand the difference between what I will call lower mental and higher mental. Yet lower mental and higher mental doesn’t give us the meanings we will have because it shows place or quality. We must understand what I mean conditions more than place or quality. Now in any language not only in English language are very poor for such meaning. Yes. So. 38’35”
Q: Yesterday you spoke about guardian angels. D: Yes. Q: And there are some people who have pathological condition that commit many many horrible crimes and they show no remorse for what they do. And therefore they have really no conscience. Where’s their guardian angels? D: The archangels which is our guardian angel, one of the metathronios from the order of the thrones, is ego-fied with us. If somebody will see your guardian angel he will think he sees you because he’s ego-fied. Yet, is he your real you or no? No, he is not though he presents himself as you. In this way he gets the authority from Infinite Beingness and is able to guard you and help you but not influence you as a present day personality human being. He attends there. So, if you ask that metathronios who are you? He will say you “I am I”and will mean his archangelic being, beingness. Which is not you because you as spirit-ego-self-superconsciousness are not the guardian angel. In at-one-ment with you. And I have put just an example. Have a candle, bright flame, and then I put another candle near it I see one flame. Phenomenomically I see one flame. In reality it isn’t one flame because if I move the candles I have two flames. So, everyone will make the mistake coming in touch with your archangel guardian to think it’s you. When it isn’t you. Why it isn’t you? He’s pure and sinless. I say yes but my ego-spirit-self-consciousness and my soul is not pure? Of course it is. Definitely it is. That is why he is ego-fied. He is ego-fied with your spirit and soul, guarding and protecting your personality. He is not ego-fied with your personality. Then we have it in a different place. I have the palm. It is one yet going to the fingers I have two fingers. And I realize that he is not me, though he is in full at-one-ment with me and I am in full at-one-ment with it, yet as present day personality, dressing myself with what I call egoism, I am different. I gave another example yesterday. You have a mirror. A crystal mirror, clean mirror. Whatever you put in front of it, it reflects it. But the mirror is not getting dirty reflecting dirt. Now, the first meeting of a man who had committed many many transgressions, I will not call them sins, the first meeting after passing over will be his guardian angel. And he will say “What a monster you are! Who are you? You came just to me. Who are you?” He will tell you “I am not a monster. You see yourself in me now. You
don’t see me. Change and you will not see me a monster. I am the living mirror in which you see yourself now.” When you have done that then you will realize that no matter in what degree of at-one-ment he is with us yet we are not he and he is not we. He is our guardian angel as long as we live as present day personalities on the Earth and he is our beloved one after that. When I was seventeen I made a poem just with my guardian angel which it’s included in our book yet though they have changed it a little. Yes. So. Seeing your guardian angel you will think you see yourself yet it isn’t he and you are not he.
44’50”
Yes.
Q: Daskale, I’ve been working with my elements lately. D: Excuse me? Q: I’ve been working with my element or egoism but realize that I used to fight it and I’ve heard often from you to not fight it. D: Definitely not fight. You will be defeated. Q: I realize. D: Yes. Q: But now I’m treating it like a little child or like kind and I’m saying okay now you go to sleep and I’m wondering whether I’m not... D: Again you are not doing rightly. Q: Ah. I thought so. D: Because you give him attention by telling it alright go to sleep. No. Forget it. Detach yourself from thinking of it. Then you will dis-energize it. That elemental came cleverly to you. To deceive you. And mind these elementals are very very clever and very very cunning. Don’t think they are objects like that you can take them and put them somewhere else. They will use all the tricks you could use. They(?) are very clever. Didn’t I say the elementals have the intelligence of the one creating them? What tricks you would use they will use it. Have it in your mind. Yes.
End tape. 46’33”