1990.01.16 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed by thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory. God of life, love and mercy, enlighten our minds to know you are the truth, clean our hearts to better reflect your love to you and to all other human beings.
As we said in previous lessons, everything is Mind, at various rates of vibrations. Matter is Mind. Matter is solid Mind. Now, as human [unint.], a human being can use the Mind as thought. We start from the super substance, the super-substance of Mind is formless, yet in it are the ideas, the laws, the causes for the manifestation. Everything to be manifested is by means of the Mind, form, the Absolute Beingness Logos, all in the Absolute Beingness, you say, the Holy Spirit.
So we have the Absolute Beingness acting on and the Mind, in any kind of vibrations, the [acted apple?] as you wish, everything is to be created. So, you have the creator, and the creation. Creatures and even universes. We said everything is Mind. You have to said it super-substance of Mind, the substance of Mind, and the matter, Mind, and the in-between them, which are what we call the etheric worlds. The etheric worlds are Mind in different vibrations, and the vibrations in-between the two differences of Mind. So, you have the material plane, the material world, the world of the three dimensions. We have described it yesterday.
In the world of these three dimensions, we have also the etheric double of everything existing, so that something to exist would have it’s etheric double. Call it energy. Call it etheric vitality. They give it so many names. So, we have in between the material world, the etheric worlds, and then we have we have called the psychical world. The same with a human body, you have the material body, you have it’s etheric double, then we have the psychical body.
Now for every material thing, from the galaxy to the atom, we have also the etheric double between the so called psychical part of that thing
05’00”
and the Mind. We call now Mind the noetic substance. So you have Mind as matter, etheric counterpart, psychical matter, the etheric again, double, then you have what you call Mind, that means the noetical world. There are other states of Mind, not of course visible. As above, so below, as the macrocosm, so the microcosm, the human being. The human being is just as the macrocosm. The old testament, we said yesterday, before the human being was created, just the human being as a creature, human being is eternal entity, ego. The human being as a body, as a present day personality, a material body, its etheric double, a psychical body, its etheric
double, the noetic body with, again, its etheric double, are creation. The creator is the Absolute Beingness and as Logos and as Holy Spirit. What corresponds to a human being with the so-called Absolute Beingness, and the Logos, and the Holy Spirit, we said [unint], and in the old testament, the Absolute Beingness says “Let us create a man, our likeness and image, let us [do it]”, because we know to whom he was addressing: to Beingnesses, in itself, which are the various orders of the Archangels, and the Logos, and the Holy Spirit.
So a human being is, in eternal now, an eternal being, as a spirit ego self superconsciousness. Is, now and exists, corresponding to the Logos, which is the light that lighteth every human being coming to the world. The soul. Again, ego, the same ego, self soul super consciousness. Super consciousness. Self superconsciousness. We shall describe it later, what we mean by self superconsciousness. And now, is and exists but mainly exists as a human being. As a human being is matter, psychical matter substance and substance. So exists as a present day personality, with a very very [limital thoff?]
[section of bad tape… unint. for 25 seconds]
its three state of being and existing are [not die?], no matter if it is the [eye?] of the present day personality is God, is your eternal self
10’00”
covered by the present day personality. Yet light which cannot be extinguished - nobody can extinguish this light - which glows in us, can give us the I-ness, the ego. The self-consciousness. But we said, very very limited self-consciousness, as sub-consciousness and consciousness. Those a self-consciousness one human being has to train himself to realize his self-consciousness, because I tell you most of the human being, the man off the street, are not living self-consciously. They may live, as they think, consciously, but not self-consciously. And this they never know and realize who they are.
If you put the question to a man who’s awakened, his conscience, living consciously as he says, without [unint.] ‘who are you?’ He’ll not be able to reply correctly.
Now, let us see how is the present day personality, that limited self-consciousness, composed of? Of matter, a material body, the etheric double, and the so-called psychical body, the emotions, desires, conceptions, mainly the self-consciousness of that present day personality, has to be developed in the what we call the psychical body and not in the material body. And also exists in the present day personality as an entity able to use the Mind as thought. But how many are really using the Mind as thought and reason? The something different, because if we saw all around us a human being as a present day personality is using his body, feet, hands, yet everything, and also his emotions not in a correct way, but thought, what using reason and what we are [laking him?], they expect to find everything ready and out of habit to express themselves in the way other human beings are thinking, that means being under the influence of various elementals around them.
So. What we seeing with our self - this is not our self, it’s our shadow - our material body is not ourself. It is the means through which we an ego - each one of us - is expressing itself in the material world, the world of the three dimensions.
Now not just in the material world. The material body of every one of us has a kind of subconsciousness of its own. If you don’t want to call it subconsciousness call it ‘sensitivity’, maybe, ‘feeling’, yes, one might behave on this. As we say, ‘absent minded’. One thinks about something else, somebody touches him, his leg, the skin, and [down patienting help?] without the present day personality noticing it. Then after that we see that means that the material body has a kind of instinctive subconsciousness of itself. A kind of feeling. Which is completely independent from our [unint.] present day personality. Because so many kinds of work is every moment taking place in the material body, yet no one, as a present day personality, knows anything about it, or feels about it. Nothing [unint.] that body live of itself. Yes, it has it’s own life. And, of course, is supervised and kept in good order
15’00”
through the etheric double of the material body by the Logos, the Holy Spirit and the Archangels the Lords of the Elements. Of course, by using the Mind, human intelligence, and observation, one even as a present day personality, can learn much about matter through the material body and
everything that takes place in the material world and in your material body. You’ll be [unint.] master that. How many things are taking place in our material body? Beating of the heart. Most people do not notice it. The circulation of the blood. Only recently the orthodox science discovered the circulation of the blood in the material body. Yet, the blood was circulating in the material body, in the bodies of the cave men. And of the primitive people. Without knowing it. So the present day personality, as a human intelligence knows nearly nothing, or very little of the work of the creating Archangels, the Lords of the Elements, in our material bodies.
And if somebody tells you that, yes, what we do, what we know, first hand knowledge, in your material body is now an Archangel called Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, a Uriel, the Logos, the Holy Spirit and other Archangels, work as working to build that material body you are living in it, [unint.]. Yet this is the truth.
No one as a present day personality and human intelligence knows much of the work of the Archangels, the creative agents in the material body, in their material body.
i had a fellow of [I-king?], a peasant who came to me, he said, “Ohh, sir very very often, I feel pain in my heart.” “In your heart?” “Yes, and [cross for wreathes metal?]” {laughter} Is said, is your heart there? “what is my heart?” Yes, he was very very healthy, a hard working peasant. [Unint. It’s beating. “This is not here?” I said, “No….” Showing me his back. Yet, I said he enjoys a perfect [perie?]. He is living in the mountains, working very very hard.
So, there is a great, great difference between the ego, self consciousness, of a man, as a present day personality, to the quite majestic wisdom, he thinks his material body…
Now, if asked, a medical doctor and you have one, or two, three here, “what’s the work of the blood?” can they tell us accurately? They suspect what it is. And if you ask them, explain what is anapoly, catapoly, and metapoly, keeping us alive and in good health in the material body. Can they reply?
[unint.] ….this great work, creative work in your material body my dear Doctor, please reply? How are these thing even are done in your material body, or in the material body of one of those human beings all around us?
So, every human being living in a material body
20’00”
as a phenomenon of life, not life - that is his ego only - the material body, and the other bodies are phenomena of life, because they are also living. Why phenomenon? Because they live in what we call time and space, that’s why, ‘a phenomena’.
Can a man, being and ego, and having what is, know the truth? Yes, when? One knows the truth when he’s free from illusions. Christ said “know the truth and the truth will liberate you”. The truth, which is the truth? In a human being, that himself as a being, is god. An I-ness. An ego eternal. Human, existing and being in the material world, in the psychical world, and the noetic world, as we have a material body, and a psychical body, and the noetic body, so the planet has its material body, its etheric double, its psychical body, our hells and our paradises, we live and will live even now. The noetical body. Of the planet, and likewise all other heavenly bodies - planet, solar systems, galaxies.
So, as a man, so is god. Man, being and eternal entity an ego. God, being called, we called the Absolute Beingness. Man expressing that Spirit ego as his soul consciousness and that manifestation is equivalent to the Logos in the universes. And of course, motion, movement, energy dynamically obeying the total wisdom in the human body, in the psychical body, in the noetical body in the universe all around us. So do we call the work of the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Archangels of the Elements. Can we come in touch, consciously, communication with the Holy Archangels, the Lords of the Elements? Of course you can. If we know them, if we concentrate our attention, and observation, at the beginning on what they are doing in our material bodies, then we’d like in [unint.] to come in contact with us. In that whom? What are we? Can we contact with as human beings? Eventually. They will come in contact with our ego, with our I and I-ness, because they are egos. They have an Archangelic super self consciousness. A Michael knows that he’s a Michael. A Raphael knows that he’s a Raphael. And you say ‘how many Michaels and how many Raphaels do we have on the planet? Shall we say ‘how many Gabriels shall we have on the planet, in the seas, everywhere?’ How many human beings we have on the planet? Many? Yes, you have Michaels beyond
any number. And Raphaels, and Uriels,
25’00”
and all. And we give these names to these orders according to their nature they express, according to the vibrations creating their elements. Michaels are ruling over the element we call fire, heat and light. Gabriels are ruling over what we call liquids and some space around the planet - not space - we call what we can see. And the Raphaels, yes, again, light, super light, magnetism, electricity maybe, and powers, that orthodox science will discover in the near future. Because from a century to another, the orthodox science is finding many many things alone. So, even orthodox science will come in touch, in cautious touch, at the beginning with the work of the Archangels, the elements and then with intelligences governing the elements. Because there are intelligences governing the forces.
Now they suspect the existence of forces, cosmic rays, cosmic electric or magnetic vibrations, they receive, not messages, but these vibrations from space. [hezat su?] but their are intelligences behind these energies and powers., because they are expressing what we call the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness.
So, man, studying and knowing his body, and [seeming?] himself, will know nature, and God. Studying and reaching that stage of realizing his soul and spirit ego, self-consciousness, will know what’s the Absolute Beingness, Logos, and the Holy Spirit. Yes, but now, how? Knowing the nature, through the Mind, and the human intelligence, you know something which outside of yourself, except within your material body , yet, it is outside of your beingness. So, one will study, concentrate and learn something which is not absolute as himself. It’s Mind, the various vibrations. Matter, substance, super substance. But now, to know God, to know Christ, the Logos, and the Holy Spirit, is not knowing something outside of us, it is at first by at-tune-ment, and then by at-one-ment, by becoming, you let yourself express itself in the highest self, becoming one with God.
The other I think that you are god. So how it is that? It is not easy to explain, I warn you. One should reach that state of super-self consciousness, of assimilation, with the super, absolute,
self-consciousness, of the Absolute Beingness. But mind now, that doesn’t mean annihilation of yourself, in the higher self or God. Shall not make the mistake of certain Buddhists, who believe to the Nirvana which means annhiliation to it of our self consciousness.
30’00”
No. If an Ego wanted [to] assimilate our self-consciousness with the Absolute Beingness, we won’t be able to because we cannot break the multiplicity of the Absolute Beingness, which is its nature. So we are beings, life, as the Absolute Beingness is life, but we always were self-consciousnesses, and we’ll always be such, because if the self-consciousness is annihilated, then there would be a meaning for the word ‘death’, which does not exist. Death is not existing. What we call ‘death’ is change. And the change is taking place every moment, especially in the material world. It takes place every moment.
So, calling a man, or a woman, you ask “who are you?” He will say partly the truth. He will say “I am George.” Yes, I am, is the reality, but George is time and space illusion. He might be Alex, or Joe, or Abreou. What was real is the I-am. The “I” is anyway. “Am” shows the nature of that “I”. The eternal now. Because always when you ask, a Being, you find it in the noetical plane, and ask him, “who are you?” He will say “I am….” “I am…. “ He may forget his present personality, especially if he looks behind and he sees that he has changed many many names in the past. A name would mean not very much. To him anymore. He will not hesitate to say yes, of course, “I am I”.
You will concentrate to that “I-ness”. His being. Which it never leaves. “I am I” is more real that “I am George” or “I am Helen”. So, the I-ness or our Ego, from the Greek word Ego, is Eternal God in us.
So, no need to search to find what somewhere in space, in imaginary space, dreaming other planets, and all that, you can find god, inside your body, through your I-ness. Life. All the blind cannot see God in the universe, even in the material universe. God is life. There are certain characteristics of life. These characteristics of life we can know, in meditation, concentration, [English are now?] observing these characteristics of life are total wisdom, total love, total force, strength or energy. These [arpunging?] of things, we can study under, around us
even in the material universe. And especially, when we start our meditation, observation, of the various phenomena
35’00”
of life around us, living forms, in studying their circle of existence and possibilities. Then we realize that we understand what we call ‘total wisdom’. In God, and in us. Now, is God within us? God is in us, not within us. That is a difference, and that mistake is in the translation of the gospels. Of the New Testament. We’ve since translating Christ, that the Logos, Jesus Christ said, “God is within me”. That would be some translations have correct. I have the other day George. He wanted me to explain to him the parables, which is the real wisdom. And the Truth and the [initiations?].
Some of the translations they say that Christ said, “God is within me”. No. “God is in me.” He is my own nature. ‘Within me” means myself is something different. From what? [unint.] So must be careful in reading the New Testament and the translations. And to us, God is in us, not within us, because God within us means something different to what we are. But ‘in’ us, it’s what we call at-one-ment. Being one. And again, when Christ was speaking about his Father, he said, “I and the Father are One”. He didn’t say “I, the Father”. He said “I and the Father are One”. Though the Father was in him, he didn’t lose his collective I-ness, its self super -absolute- consciousness. [unint.] knowing that, we know the multiplicity of the Infinite Beingness.
Yet, what. As we have thousands of blood cells in our body, yet we are we each person, a human body, so is the Absolute Beingness in its multiplicity of beings, all the Holy Monads. Don’t believe in many gods, in One God, in its multiplicity. So, we should respect that self of ours, which is the I-ness. Who will respect it? The creature. The present day personality, because even the present day personality for a man, has in itself, the essential eternity. And even Christ said that the mortal condition, I’ll be mortal, changeable, would dress itself with immortality, because it is immortal, that “I” of the present day personality is immortal. And the perishable will dress itself with what is imperishable.
So, now we know what we are. And how and what we are in the world of existence. So we know ourselves in the various steps of self
consciousness. You know what the steps are? Subconsciousness, Consciousness - instinctive consciousness - and limited to the 5 senses, Self-consciousness - believing our material body is ourselves, yet, we can expand our nature. And [unint.]
40’00”
to reach our soul superconsciousness. Then again expand, going beyond the limits of time and space, to the Eternal Now. To the place that we are Spirit-Ego-Self Super-consciousnesses. Many human beings have [at last?] reached that stage. We have described the way to this. That everybody reach that stage of Spirit Ego Self superconsciousness, sooner or later, yes! Everyone will return back home. Read the parable of the Prodigal Son. So there is not the favored one of the few of them that will reach that stage and the others, oh, eternal [misery?]. Because there are not ‘savers’ in God. Every human being, being born on the planet, if he is a gentleman, or a so-called civilized one, resp[ires?]energy, vitality, and the air. The civilized man maybe is not breathing properly, and a jungle man, breathes and breathes, in a better way. So, God is not making favors. In the same way, the material body of a jungle man is cared after and loved from the intelligence. And the body of a civilized man the same way.
So, even so, there will not have a favor to human beings. All human beings are equal to the care of the heavenly father. And all have the same rights. Only human stupidity makes the distinction on the planet placing some human beings higher than other human beings. All human beings have equal rights to life and to the love of the Infinite Beingness. So, we proceed now to our lesson.
Every human being, having Christ the Logos in him, not within him, his nature - because the Logos is the light which lighteth every human being coming to the world - that means making him as a human being feeling a self-consciousness can use the formulas, super substance of thought, forming it into what we call elementals.
No, [how you tell you?] all humans do not think in the same way. They can[n’t] if they want to. They’ll not favor here themselves [until used?] the super substance of Mind and others cannot do it. Everyone can do it. So, everyone has the same rights to gifts of life. To Mind.
Now, yesterday’s lesson I said that every human being is creating elementals from the super-substance of Mind. How they do it? Subconsciously of course, obeying the vibrations we call emotions, desires and liking. This is something subconsciously
45’00”
created now, within them, not in them. [unint.] that. Because that thing is not their self, it is within them, the same way that all things outside are not ourselves.
So, when a man, or a woman, sees something that draws his attention, he wants to have it. At first to see it, to know it, to attach it, to understand what it is and then, either reject it, or have it. To call it his own. Now, what is this thing that makes a human being feel that he needs to own something? We have not done everything around us - we’ve done nothing around us - yet we want that and that to call it our own. By what right, if you think reasonably now? Have our own, something we did not create? We didn’t know what it was before. We concentrate on it just to know what it is. Now we reach that stage of the Mind within us, not in us, to call emotions and desires, so said today so summed up, every desire creates an elemental. Which is something to want to have it [unint.]
47’08”
[end of tape side]
Now, we see something, and the first thing is to know it. How would we know it? Touch it? See it? Concentrate on it, to learn what it is? Apart from the desire, we have now to use the Mind. We use the substance - super-substance of Mind formed as Mind - to create, from that thing, a mental idol or image within us, to know it. So now we see for every elemental, we need emotion, and thought. Thought. How can I have it? I must find a ways - thinking - how I will possess it? have it?
So we have the emotion, have the desire, and then we must find a way how to get it. We can use the thought in many many many ways now. Yes, I must work, earn the money, and go and buy it. No, it’s difficult. I want to have it now. I will steal some money from somebody, and go and buy it. But, how can I do that? It’s better just to play with cards, and get it! So, having the desire, and emotion, we start using the Mind, enslaving
the super-substance of the Mind to serve certain emotions, of serve the desire. And so, we have the elementals and we can see now, the quality of the elemental.
So all elementals created do not have the same, are not of the same quality. Depends how the Mind is used to serve the emotion. And of course, we call these elementals
50’00”
the ‘emotion-thought elemental’.
Now, maybe I have felt the need of something, having something, have food. This is a necessity. Then again, I will think how I will have it. Work, to earn money, and buy food, for me and my family. Or, find some other ways, not difficult or more easy to get this money to buy food. So, again according to the vibrations of the emotions, will be the thoughts. We come now to the conclusion that the quality of every elemental depends upon the desire and the emotion more than the thoughts ought. Yes.
So, the emotional or emotion thought-forms elementals are various various kinds and their quality is very different. Christ spoke about this, elementals, calling them spirits, without contents, mood and something like that, you find it in the gospel, and describes how they are created, projected, and returning, coming back.
Now, researchers after truth are doing something else. They put emotions and thoughts under their logic, under reason. And then, they use the thought in the right way. These elementals, we call them ‘thought-elementals’. You have two kinds of elementals. Not necessarily first class is not evil, and all the elementals are not bad. So, of course, they are. Very bad. But some are not. But the real elementals, a researcher after the truth is to do are what we call the ’thought-forms’. And those elementals, the thought prevails.
Now, we said before that every elemental has a kind of intelligence similar to the intelligence of its creator. So every elementals lives its own life. When I say ‘life of an elemental’, I mean the time it is energized and active. This is a duration in time. So, the best elementals - constructive elementals - are those we call ‘thought-forms’ not emotion-thought-forms.
The thought forms must always be good because they are under the reason. Now there is some other kind of elementals, for the scientists, the mystics which are not just only to serve the present-day personality, but to make the present-day personality as an ego now know the truth regarding those laws in nature. Such as the elementals concerning algebra, trigonometry, science. Some people call these things abstract. This is not right because these things are more concrete than those we call concrete. Because the concrete things are perishable, but the laws are not. There are there, all the time. Of course, these elementals
55’00”
of knowledge can be acquired by those who know how to use the Mind in the proper way. In this way, an Ego, even of a present day personality can reach the highest place of wisdom. Of course, this is not what the human race is in need of now. This is for the selected few. For these are mathematical problems, and this is not for everybody. Besides everyone is not in need of these things, just to live his life comfortably.
Now, we said our present day personality is the sum total of all those elementals. Good, or not good. And the quality of the present day personality of a man or of a woman, is just the quality of the elementals composing it. These elementals are composing that part of our present day personality called ‘egoism’, but we make the mistake to think that it’s ourself. Our ego. Now I tell you the ego, the I-ness, god, in a human being, has nothing to do with that [periation?] in time and space of a present day personality we called egoism.
But a reasonable man, by studying the meditation, observation, concentration and observation, of course all the time distinguish egoism, separate it from his ego, and change it. The ego, are immortal, self - not in need of any change - but egoism is under constant change. It is changed by the adding of new elementals.
Now, eastern schools are teaching various kinds of meditation. Most of them I call them useless and wasting of time. Why? What a good meditation is for researchers after the truth is first to understand that his I-ness, his ego, is the master in the bodies and has to learn what is taking place in their present day personality, and start changing things for the better. At the beginning, they will [move and?] protest. And Ahmed, am I
not you? You utter.. no you are not me.
I am the master, and not the slave, and you are the bad [transeller?] all the time. You are the sum total of certain kinds of elementals. You need change. But I, as I-am-I, there is not any change in it. The I-ness is not in need of change, and you cannot change that. But you can change, in your present-day personality what you call the egoism.
How? We must start with introspection. Or looking within,
60’00”
checking the behavior of your present day personality. Analyze, separate, and study your emotions, your desires, the things that really you think they are interesting you, desires. What you find? That every desire, when it is fulfilled, it loses it’s influence on you, and you jump to another desire. And when you have something, you are longing very much to have it, when you have it you put it aside and you want something else. So when a desire is fulfilled, either it makes you tired, and you are after something else, you feel fed up from it. If a desire is not fulfilled in time you want it to be fulfilled, it gives you a kind of desire pain of despair or pain, a kind of obstinance, “why not have it?”.
So every desire, whether fulfilled or not fulfilled has within it, pain, if not judged reasonably from you by using properly, logic and the Mind.
So, every desire creating an elemental tends to be fulfilled in some time, as we said in yesterday’s lesson and before yesterday’s lesson, when you are all the time thinking about a desire, how to fulfill it, how to have it something it that and that, and feel that feeling strong, you don’t give it time to work for it. It goes, comes back, it goes, comes back, it goes, comes back, and so the desire is not fulfilled. So here’s the secret. When you want a desire to be fulfilled, send it, stop thinking about it, occupy your mind with something else, and something else to give it time, to go and work for you.
Sometimes necessarily, you are getting tired of a desire, and oh, you leave it. And you think about something else. Then you see that desire is fulfilled, and eoh! Every desire is fulfilled when I don’t want it anymore. It is because we gave it time to work and bring it to you. That was all.
So, under the influence of our egoism, the sum total of the elementals within us, causing us just each feeling of desiring, and expanding all the time elementals coming back, is making us tired. Sometimes bring us to despair. And something else. All the time, serving desires, as passions, strong emotions, and then, in the evil side, as despising people, hating people, and what we call malice, is burning up all the etheric energy given to us every day. Yet we are asking to ‘give us this day our daily bread’ that means that vitality. When we spend more of it, more than we should, we don’t use this energy, that etheric vitality, for the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit to build a healthy body.
So, every illness in the material body has as the result, the wasting of
65’00”
this etheric vitality. Somebody will say, yes, what about the germs, the microbes, the virus? They are in our body, in all the human bodies, all the time. Just we say some are immune to these illnesses. When the resistance of our system, then they find ground to express themselves. And cause illness. Nobody should be afraid of germs and viruses, if the resistance of his system is good. But killing what is unnecessary to develop in the body is the care of the Archangels, and not our care.
So, all our life on the planet, every day, all the time until now, is nothing more than kneeling before our egoism, making the mistake that our egoism is ourself. And, feeling pain. Having the feeling of being tired. Is this life? Isn’t this the purpose of life on the planet? Is it for this purpose the Infinite Beingness in its total wisdom created man to his own image and likeness?
Now, are the elementals in us - within us, not in us, devils? Some, yes. Devils are real and exists, in the material plane all around us. The evil one as people call him, Satan - give him many many names - of course names are used in the wrong way. We call the evil one Satan. Nothing more stupid. Because in the old Egyptian language, ‘yearadoling, god, the spiritual god, with the name of Aton - the greeks, other names - Sa means ‘the truth’. Sa-aton, means ‘the truth of God is here. What it has to do with the devil? So they are just making bad use of the words. Lucifer is the lord of light. Why is lucifer a demon?
So human intelligence made very very bad use of the words with their good meaning. So is there an evil one, the evil one? What do we mean by ‘evil one’?
There are certain intelligences in the universe all around us which are hostile to our human interests, of course. And also you are calling them ‘evil ones’. And they are the elementals of Lucifer. And they are not meant just to make a human being suffer. They are doing some work in the world of separateness, to have life on the material plane. They may correspond to the policemen in a city. That you are appointing policemen in a city doesn’t mean that the policemen are evil - ‘cause yes, they may arrest and beat and torture certain transgressors of the law,
70’00”
but they are there, just to keep the o[rder?].
So, a researcher after the truth, knowing what is the truth, has a different idea about things happening all around us. Do the human interests, these are judging - we measure our measure of our interests. Suppose a fellow could ask the sheep, and the cows, and the other animals, if they were intelligent enough to answer him, “Is there an evil for you, a Satan for you?” What would they say [ban?] So why? Was his [chien?] was eating us?
Well suppose an entity was existing, living around us, just getting the Father Ordinary, slaughtering him, just to eat him, and leaving the other offspring dying there from hunger, just like that. What we would call that entity? A devil? Why not. What are we doing on the planet? Stealing the animals. The other day had a fellow. He had not a heart attack, but he was over-tired. And he fell unconscious on the ground because he went to the mountains, he was a good hunter. And he found a pleasure in shooting a partridge, seeing it falling down, dead. I put him the question “Maybe, [did-you-own-sandex?], will die, because you have killed the mother, the father? Or there were little ones expecting the mum and the father to bring some things to eat? You have killed it! Why you did it? What pleasure you found? In just shooting that innocent bird, which was turning toward nature and the sun, and water?
He says “God created everything for us!”
“Is that so? So the whole nature was created for you? To do anything you like? Then you feel (loud breaths) panting and you’re…. maybe it’s a punishment I think.”
“Don’t tell me that Daskale”, he says.
“Break that, don’t sell it, because some other fellow will use to shoot and kill birds and animals and maybe human beings if they are under a stupid anger. Break it. and give up all this stupid behavior in life.”
Now, who is the evil one, for the birds, for the animals? So everything is relative in nature. You must have that in mind.
Should we be afraid of the evil one, of nightmares, and all that? I had the question many times. Why should? Why should we be afraid of something we create? All the nightmares coming to a man are his own creations, or elementals coming to him because he or she vibrates at that rate of vibrations, attracting them. So, free yourself from those vibrations, and they’re not torturing nightmares anymore.
Shall we reach to the conclusion now that every human being as a self-conscious present day personality is self-punished? By his own elementals? Yes, this is the truth. Evil fights evil. Have that in your mind. Evil fights evil. Evil is attacking evil.
75’00”
Good [obs?] is sometimes attacking evil… with reason. And good strengthens what is good. The life, the light is piercing the darkness. Darkness cannot pierce the light. So, good always strengthens what is good. Evil fights evil, evil tends to annihilate evil. You have this in your mind. Be good, and no evil can reach you.
Is there black magic and what’s black magic? Of course there is black magic. There are many many many cases of black magic. There are people killing other people with magic. How we must protect ourselves from black magic? By being good. Even the most able black magician cannot harm a child. It’s Angel - Guardian Angel - protects each child. No evil man can do anything bad to a good man, because evil elementals, getting out of the black magician or the fellow paying, or to both of them
adding to the elemental, will strike on the fellow, and if that fellow is good, and innocent, and God-loving man, it will strike and go back to those who created it without harming him at all.
Now, suppose the other man is vibrating in the same way of hatred that the others are vibrating. And it will go and pierce in the aura of that man and cause him much damage. Again, it will come back and attack the one who created it. So the evil one, the evil man, the evil magician will pay for what he is doing, and all black magicians know it.
So, what is talimans? Can you create talismans protect you men? Yes. What really talismans are doing? Two things. The raise the vibrations of the fellow, who made that talismans, to that standard of not being attacked. And, if attacked, the talisman tends to disenergize that elemental so it will be darkness so it will not go back against the fellow who cast it. This is the aim of a talisman.
Do good people, are in need of talismans? No. But, can we be all the time aware of protecting ourselves from evil attacks? No. Therefore, it’s better to have a shield. For this purpose [lesson?] What can be a talisman? Is a cross a talisman? Yes. A cross is a natural talisman. But, when you have it, you must believe that it will protect you, and believe that it will protect you, it means that you should be good. Believe in God. Believe in the higher [decium?]
I had a question the other day from a muslim. They said, “We are muslims. We don’t have a cross, a golden or a seal or something like that. But I have this crescent. Does it protect me?” Definitely it does. Because any object
80’00”
can represent an elemental and for which is is done. You are a muslim, you have that, that will protect you in the same way a cross will protect a Christian. And the Jews, their signs will protect them, because they create the elementals by their belief. Now, do icons of the orthodox Greeks through variants and Russians and that, do something as miracles or with statue of Virgin Mary or a St. Anthony, and all that, do things for the Catholics? Yes. Of course they… because they are talismans. And they are what you call collective, group talismans.
And such things as that, in Gykos in Cyprus, in Dinos, the Lourdes, to the Catholics, and in many many other places, where, with prayers, as meditation, you load an article, whether it’s an icon, not matter if it’s gold and silver or wood, or just, a statue, it radiates that elemental. And it can do, even things you consider miracles, curings. People going there, even with incredible illnesses, believing, and begging, and they’re cured. Are those, in a very very, say primitive way, made, idols, of people in Africa or in Australian, or in any corner of the world, could the tables, how you call it, do the same thing? To those believing in them? Yes, because they are talismans. They are elementals having as a material body, that thing. Of course we [unint.]. Are such talismans doing evil some times? Can you have evil gods? Kali, what is Kali, for the Hindus? Just any object collectively used by black magicians just to attack enemies. They do it. So once you know what are elementals, and how elementals are created, and how elementals are behaving, we’ll see that is it the truth.
So, can a fellow disenergize very very evil elementals? I’ll give an example. Can a man take away the fuse, from a bomb? Render it harmless? Yes. They do it now. Elementals are just like wires loaded with electricity, [one give, wanna kill?]. Or if you know the way, you can just disenergize it,certain elementals. So, everyone must know the way how to disenergize elementals, whether this elemental has been created by himself, went out and came back to him, or, they came to him, in him, because he vibrates, she vibrates in the same rate of vibration with these elementals. But now, he reaches a point that he wants a better one, and disenergize that. How can he do it? How we disenergize elementals? By stopping feeding them. That means giving them attention. By being disinterested about them.
85’00”
For some time, then they are losing their energy, and they enter in the darkness to die there. Never an elemental died. Because there is not such [thing?] as death. Even for the elementals. It disenergized, and sleep in the darkness, yes, ready to be re-energized by anyone vibrating to the same rate of vibration with them. So these elementals so as you have, are re-vitalized elementals of a group elemental already existing. Now we are in that ocean of all of these elementals you call good and / or evil. If we were [to] vibrate in that rate of vibrations, we attract one, we re-energize
it, and you become the slave of it, adding it to our egoism, to our present-day personality.
First, all those existed in the world, many many many centuries back, even to the men living in the caves. [It?] is a group elemental of stealing, adultery, sodomy, attacking, crime, gambling, smoking, drinking, and we are in this ocean of elementals. Once we vibrate in that way of vibration, one is attracted, and you re-vitalize or re-energize it, entering now in our egoism. So, we are now responsible for re-energizing the elementals.
Are their family elementals? Yes, of course there are. In the church is says that the sins of parents are making children to suffer. You may say ‘[uhm] but this is not right’. Whether it is right or not, so it is. This are the family elementals. Because usually, to some extent the whole members of the family are vibrating accordingly. So they are influence. And when you see somebody from an elemental, family elemental, of evil, cast to that family, relative or not, if you don’t put it in darkness, disenergizing it, and you see a fellow, that will return to the parents, if they are living.
So there is a whole science in how to deal with elementals. How to build them, create them, and how they behave.
Now,
s. A Guardian Angel, is as we said, a Metathronos, an ego said super-conscious of the highest ranks of the Archangels, which is egofied with a man, to be [have met]. Can we create for our beloved ones, Guardian Angels also? Elementals, strong to protect them?
Yes, how you do it? Of course, you must have the skill of visualization and expressing a will, a strong will. How you do it?
You isolate yourself in a room. You put a chair somewhere, near. And you sit comfortably there, and you want to make an elemental to protect, to the permissible point, according to Karma,
90’00”
a child you love very much, or your girlfriend. What to do. You create an elemental, of the boy or the girl, as a boy or as the girl, just resembling that boy or girl. And you see them sitting on that chair. This is not
imagination, this is creative thought. What is creative thought, imagination may you see that child, clearly, or having changed [from the mountains?] imagination, you must use what is in reality, see that child. Sitting there on the chair. The same age, approximately. Start building it. See continually, the rest, sitting there silent. Have near him two candles. The outside of the [carot?] the other side of the chair. See it, for 15 days. The first day. You can move the chair. But use the same chair. In the same hour, you must have that chair. Put it there, and see it climbing and sitting on the chair. I say this need skill in visualization. See it sitting in the chair. See it in detail, as you would see that child. I said, boy or girl. For around quarter of an hour. Again, light the candles. Start with a prayer. Always, because we is using Divine substance. The super substance of the Mind is Divine. Mind is Divine. You do that for 15 days.
15 days that elemental is strong enough to talk with that, it reply to you. Just put him the question, stand up now. Come here. [pullabit?] Sit here, in another chair, tell me [as I ask]. “Are you willing to protect that child having you name? Give it a name. It has the name of the child it will protect. It will say ‘yes’ or ‘no’. He says ‘no’, alright, go. [Unint.] Is that child is paying a very heavy karma. Being in a previous incarnation maybe a criminal. That will be [an eye-opener?] But this happens, not very often. As far as I know, never happen. To me. They say, good. Now are you willing to go protect that child from certain dangers, such as attacks from enemies? But he [process on him] but you must never interfere with its personality, because that’s bad. Do anything I would do in advising him. Advise him and tell him. Protect him from evil people. Evil company. Even, from accidents. But never interfere in his personality. We can never interfere in the personality of others. Even leaving that, your children. You must let them grow according to the will of God, let them develop their own personalities. So. Send him. It will go, and start protecting that child. You have to call it, from time to time, and send it, reenergize it and send it. You create….
94’35”
[end of tape]