1990.01.17 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us, lead us not in temptation and deliver us from evil. For thine is the power and the glory for ever. God of Life, Love and Mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth. Clean our hearts to better reflect your love towards you and to all other human beings. Amen.
We said, in previous lessons, that the Absolute Beingness is. Is means, at all times. Eternally, everlastingly. So we understand the Absolute Beingness only in its expressions. What’s the nature of the Absolute Beingness? It’s not for a human mind to comprehend. What we can understand of the Absolute Beingness through its expressions is the nature of the Absolute Beingness. That means, the Absolute Beingness, Life, this is the nature of the Absolute Beingness. Life. But of course we cannot understand what’s Life only studying the phenomena of life. We can of course have an idea of what’s life, studying all the phenomena of life in all the worlds of the creation.
So, the manifestation of the Absolute Beingness is through Mind. So, Mind is the expression of the Absolute Beingness as, maybe, total Might - Power - including the total Wisdom. And the total Love of course. But we can see it more clearly, as a power. Motion. We said, the will of God is motion. It is the nature of the Absolute Beingness, motion. Said, Motion, without anything moving. But we understand motion when we see something moving. So something to be moving means that motion is. And now it exists as a manifestation of that much movement. The nature of the Absolute Beingness is motion. Movement. Vibrations. Call it whatever you like.
So, the manifestation of the Absolute Beingness, as we human beings can understand it, is two ways: Logoic, and Holy Spiritual. To understand what a man is doing, we’ll see what his two hands are doing. And by seeing what they are doing, I know that the man is and exists. And his hands are expressing his purpose his way. Two hands. So the Absolute Beingness is. Who seeing the two hands of a man working can understand what is the will of that
05’00”
man moving the hands to do this or that work. We must [thigwa?] and guess - much - think, what word you like - but these two [hap?] from moving, at to do some work, which I would see now. Study it. Know it.
So, this is the Absolute Beingness in it’s multiplicity, working in two ways comprehensible to human beings: Logic and Holy Spiritual. The Logoic has all the nature of the Absolute Beingness, but we see prevailing the total wisdom and the total love. The Holy Spirit again, expresses all the qualities of the Infinite Beingness - total wisdom, total love, but we see now more clearly what I would call power, might. We see the creation in a more concrete way as the work of the supervisor, the Holy Spirit. The creation of material bodies. Not of our material body only, but the material bodies of all living forms around us.
So, all the creation, all the phenomena of life we see are Holy Spiritual. And Logoic, but mainly Holy Spiritual. Now what is the Logoic now? Manifestation of the Absolute Beingness. The Logos, Christ presented to the human beings through Jesus Christ - not with anybody else - with every one of us, yet but most clearly and definitely through Jesus Christ as total Love. And total wisdom.
So, what is the Logoic expression of the Absolute Beingness? What is the Logos of Christ? Only a human being who had lived 33 years, a young man of 33 years, not more, who said before mountains and earth and everything existed, “I am”. In the present Now. So for us, what’s the Logos? An imaginary human being, Jesus Christ or Joshua, and he, because he was the human being that reflected all the brilliance of the Absolute Beingness, reaching the stage where he call “I and the Father are one”. Yet by saying “I”, he taught us who he was. What was that total “I-ness”? Total I-ness, not individual I-ness, not one ego, or the total egos, what are the characteristics of that I-ness? Of an ego? Generally man saying “I-am”. Can a tree say that? No. Only human beings say “I-am”, adding something else, the name of a man or a woman.
What are the characteristics now of the Logos? Johannan is stating it clearly. The Logos is
10’00”
the light which lighteth every human being coming to the world. He said “I am the light of the world”. That means his self-consciousness. Again, consciousness but self now -consciousness, of a complete being. Complete Being. So we now see the multiplicity of the Infinite Beingness, in the human race. Each human being expresses, himself, a self, a self-consciousness, which is our Logoic existence.
So, we have the consciousness and the self-consciousness, and we see it very clearly studying phenomena of life all around us even in the material world here. But now again, studying what is consciousness, we see it in various degrees. We call it instinct, you call it sensitivity - that’s it in the trees, the flowers, and the plants, call it subconsciousness, consciousness, we can study it all around us. Is that all? What we can know and study regarding a human being? The meditation of salvation and using the Mind now in knowing, knowing the truth.
Now, a human being possesses, in his material body, what I call instinct, or subconsciousness, and I see now, in the material body, as we said yesterday there is [Begok?] or the Holy Spirit. The material body itself is Holy Spiritual. Though it’s created also by the Logos. Yet, not being given to the material body is self-consciousness. Our material body is sleeping Holy Spiritually. It has in it all the qualities of all living forms around us which is the instinct, and the sub-consciousness - a kind of consciousness. But not a self-consciousness. Then what we see more, that if our material bodies, independently from that instinct and sub-consciousness, we live as a self-conscious being. We can distinguish that we are not our bodies, and we are not the product of our bodies. But our body is for us to express ourselves, through its kind of consciousness and instinct, under the supervision of higher intelligences and the Holy Spirit, to use it so that I - I now - is self-conscious, expressed myself in the world of the three dimensions. [ow?] we see now, what we call the present day personality, a man, which is Logoic.
Now, we can study this self consciousness. So we partake of the nature of the Holy Spirit, we are Holy Spiritual, yet we are mostly Logoic, manifesting a self-consciousness. Now,
15’00”
we see the work of the Holy Spirit in the material body mainly, and later in the other bodies, when we are conscious of the other bodies. What is the work of the Holy Spirit? In any material body, provided it’s not any other cause interfering, the total wisdom and the total power through the circle of possibilities keeping a body in the best of health, the perfect health. We say ‘if other causes are not interfering’ of course, we can see a child being born ill, given the parents had syphilis or any other illness, to be something other causes, but if such causes did not exist as causes of cause and effect the Hindus are calling ‘karma’, a perfect human body is to be built by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels, and coming to life. Being born.
So all healthy human bodies, male or female, are perfect from the time of the birth until it passes over. , if not other causes are interfering, perfect health - that’s the will of God - would prevail in these bodies. Are we sure about that? Definitely because even if other causes are interfering, the super-intelligences, the Holy Archangels, and the Holy Spirit tend to cure what’s wrong. Inflict a wound on the leg of a man, and that tends to be cured. Whether the man living in that body, as a present day personality, knows that or not, because the material body has an instinct of a consciousness of itself.
Now, how is the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels are working in a material body, not only a man , also the animals, and the plants and the trees? Superconsciously. Now what is ‘superconscious’? You know what is instinct, you know what is subconsciousness. We can describe all the various degrees of consciousness which we call ‘waking consciousness’. Now, I’m not mentioning the self-consciousness. We leave it aside. We mentioned ‘superconsciousness’ now. What does it mean, superconsciousness? Working perfectly in many places at the same time. That’s what I call superconsciousness.
So what are the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels working in a material body? Superconsciously, yet giving the material body and the other bodies a kind of instinct. And subconsciousness? Yes, how is it superconscious? Because there are so many things to be done in a material body at the same time. Very different work of the liver, from the work of the lungs, from the work of the heart, from the work of the kidneys, much different is the circulation of the blood and the creation of the various organs at the same time, of all kinds of liquids, hormones, at the same
time. The bile is prepared, in the what we call, gall bladder, at the same time the liquid in the eyes are kept. And [relaling?]
20’00”
different kinds of substances. The blood, the composition of the blood. Different, this work, at the same time always, the work in the heart. In the human brains, the lungs, the kidneys, the bowels, can you imagine how many kinds of work is done in a material body, I repeat, at the same time? Not of course this work now, and that’s the sometimes, another kind of work and then, back again, at the same time? So many kinds of work, different kinds to keep a human body in heath and in good order.
Is that our intelligence as a present day personality doing that? And it is done in all material bodies of all healthy people? Done superconsciously. When I say superconscious now, I mean in many many parts, many many kinds of different work at the same time by the same intelligence.
So, the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels are hosting, in any material body, of a plant, an animal and a human being, the human body, superconsciously, exactly, and by seeing these things I can understand part of what I call total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness. Total Love - that harmony - in the body, isn’t that the total Love? The absolute love. Power? yes of course. Most powerfully, the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels are working in a healthy material body.
Health. Why some bodies are not healthy? You have different interferences to stop this work. And who is just causing this interference? The present day personality, living in the material body, living in not wise way of life. So, we see and study that. The present day personality of manis interfering in the creative work of the Archangels and the Holy Spirit. Until it develops itself to that state of being logical, reasonable self-consciousness.
Now, self-consciousness. We turn to another kind of consciousness. A human being, being a soul-ego, possessing a material body - because a material is not our present day personality - our present day personality is our ego as self-consciousness. The characteristics of a soul is the self-consciousness. I have put this question to a group of doctors of divinity when I was giving a lecture, in the [certance?] of the Cambridge
University. Do we have a soul? Of course, most of the said yes of course you have a soul, I said, no, you are mistaken, you don’t have a soul. You ARE a soul and you have a body. You said that your own way, because the instinctive, semi-conscious, sub-consciousness, cannot claim being the soul. And putting the question “have we” - we who?
25’00”
unless, with ‘have we a soul?’, we mean that devil which is within us which is called the egoism, and not the ego. Because we have come, shall come to that.
So, we have the soul, ‘why you act this way?’, as a present day personality, covered without [equis?] and presenting itself as sinful. Now we see two states of things, what we call a ‘sinful personality’, and our ego. Yes, a line with two points. A brilliant one, the middle, a center of the line, and the other part of it. One side is our ego, the brilliantly bright one and the other side is our egoism with all sorts of dark colors we should get rid of. Not to be influenced.
So, we see that our ego, and the present day personality is using the word “I”, as an ego, and an ego, is god. Even covered by egoism, when we get rid of the egoism, and we see our real ego, not covered with the [wax?], we know that we are gods. The prodigal son, being the keeper of swine, [deepening?] stop being the prince, with the desire of getting back, of home. A prodigal son was not lost because he became the keeper of the swine, even being fed by what the swine were eating.
So, in the gospel we can distinguish and separate our ego from egoism presenting itself. Of course it needs logical mediation, concentration, and observation, and our circles are teaching this kind of meditation, because there are many many kinds of meditation, which are in reality, not necessary. So that we are not caught in useless, and wasting of time. Because, in meditation, we are using the Mind, and we may use the Mind for something good, or wasted, as generally people are doing every day.
So, we come to another point now, to study the difference between consciousness and self-consciousness. Then I push a little bit forward, and say, we said about super-consciousness. Can there be a self-superconsciousness? Is that possible? Now we have see that the
Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels are working in any material body superconsciously. That means, at the same time, many places, in the body, and different kinds of work. And all done most perfectly.
We go now from the consciousness to the self-consciousness. Of any human being, but the self-consciousness had to be developed. Though everyone claims to be self-conscious, yet he
30’00”
is not expressing his ego self-consciously, but expressing it through only emotions and the egoism. Expressing himself through elementals. What we need now, self-consciously. Mary will come to me and Helen and Anju and George and say “Am I not self conscious?” I said, “you are, yes”, Why? I said “Show me your self-consciousness” [unint]. This is not your real self-consciousness. Because we say “I am” you are using the self-consciousness, but not in a satisfactory way. You are not self-conscious of your real self, you make the mistake to take your shadow as the self conscious the light.
When I said “self-consciousness”, mean, after deep meditation, concentration and observation, and much, much work in analyzing the present day personality, the desires, the feelings, the way of expressing itself, and all kinds of this idea, analyzing it and knowing it you reach a point to say, “now I know why, I am not what I thought I was. I am a different person yet, all the time, I am.
Now if I put you the question say, ‘what go now, are you self-conscious who you are?” One must find a steady point, do not tell me I am George. Or a maid or Helen, I said, I am… I. Yes. You are that. But now realize who you are as a self-conscious being and not a semi-self conscious time and place existence. Now we know the whole lie, and not taking our attentions in the center and our eyes toward that one which is dirty, with those shades of color, but we turn now our gaze to the other side, which is light. That is what I mean, self-consciousness. When you come to that self-consciousness, what you find? That the range of your influence becomes bigger. People will say broad-minded. They want to mean something by it but they don’t express what they mean ‘broad-minded’. Open it. Opening. His vision, through understanding they all have new context, understanding, that means using the Mind properly. Feel
conscious and know everything in a different way what happens all around us. Observation. But is that all? Human beings are accustomed of being always out, when I say out, of their bodies, not even paying attention of what is going on in their bodies, and out in the surrounding locality.
Happily very limited, seeing what is surround them only, not in the [unint.] because, now we come to study what are our five senses.
35’00”
Good. Very good, especially sight. Most limited, to compare sight with what we call vision of the self-super consciousness is sight, seeing all around you [unint.] [unint.] What do you mean? Self super-consciousness. That means living in a better way fully. Fully means where I want to be. Not being limited at the beginning by place - space. And yet, afterwards, I will break the limits of what I call time. Past, present and future. That means super consciousness. You find that, after getting experiences, in what you call exosomatosis, outside of the body, but, in the lesson I said something most people did not understand, but you do have any way of expressing it. Being out, you are in. Not in the body, in yourself, and entering in, you are out. Because it’s one.
You must get the habit of introspection. Getting in. Studying things that happen outside of the body. Exosomatosis. In exosomatosis, you are using what you call the consciousness and the self-consciousness in a limited way, of your personality, not of your soul ego. So, you get out of the body, you leave the material body, you don’t use the material life any longer, but you have the vision, seeing. Going, in a certain place, seeing things in the known way using now vision, but as you are using the sight. You are limited in that too, seeing things in the same way you would see them if you were present with your material body yet and with your eyes.
That means, in exosomatosis, using the usual - very little of self-consciousness of your personality. But now you have an open field, to expand. You find something else. That you can see things all around you without turning your head, because in this body of yours - the psychical body - if you train it because it needs training in the same way you need to train your material body - have that in your mind.
In training, you see that, you don’t [sounding?] within, eyes or that part
corresponding to the material eyes of the body, that any part in it, of the psychical body is an eye. You can express not only the five senses, but still more, which lead to what we call knowing and understanding, because you might see things, without knowing them, just simply seeing them, not understanding what they are.
But now you get, how you call them, powers? qualities? Because the psychical body, after training, training in it, it can serve you much more than the material body can do.
40’00”
But again you have to develop what I call self super consciousness which means be in many places at the same time, fixing your attention, something you don’t have now as a present day personality in the material world. Usually we are shared. Somebody is doing something. If somebody’s interfering you are taken away from that something as of avoid the moment to listen to you and then back again to what I was doing. Or maybe if you have something in your hands and somebody is talking to you, you pay your attention and you break from your hands, that means a human being today, living in the material body cannot concentrate itself in more than one place at a time. If we train ourselves, with what we call meditation and observation, you can train yourself, notice many things. But at the same time, this is just a little example of what I mean by self superconsciousness.
A piano player is there, he sees the notes he will read at the same time, both hands. He is playing with one hand differently than he is playing with the other hand. At the beginning, he will study playing with one hand and with the other hand, and then together until he gets the habit of reading it said someone playing with both hands. That means paying attention to two places at the same time.
Superconsciousness means many places at the same time, and not on two points I mean in reading the notes. So playing with his hands, both hands, you will start playing with your hands and then different things with the other hand. Just playing together.
This will give you an idea about what I mean pay attention and concentrating on two things at the same time. Super consciousness means in many many places and things at the same time.
I tell you some of my experience. I was traveling from Cedros to Athens on board a ship. Of course, I was in my cabin. I was using the captain’s, I mean the owner’s cabin. I was going around for seeing things, I went to the deck, I saw the seagulls, then I went back to my cabin. The second in command, the second captain, was on the deck looking [unint.] what I was doing [unint.]. I thought of projecting. I went to my cabin, put myself in sleep, got [outwards?], got on the deck, saw the seagulls, expanding myself I could see what is in the bottom of sea where the seagulls [are aiming?]. There, everywhere, [me is?] extending, extending, [unint.] this, I was in exosomatosis in my [thinking kire?] body, yet in the material plane. This is rather difficult to do. It needs much training, because when you are in exosomatosis you find yourself in a subplane of the psychical plane. And then you have to practice coming down on the material plane. Saw isles. I saw little islands, saw [surainin?] and little brooks
45’00”
I saw wise little animals, running, even lizards, I could see fish, I could [see?] everything, expanded. That means being self-conscious, in many places. Then, I came back. When I came back, now. Suppose I was [in?] an accident and the ship sank. Of course this body of mine would be drowned [simbit?] What have would happen to me? What’s death like? [ujah?] think of the my the first self-conscious exosomatosis, death of the material body means nothing to you. ‘Cause you find, “I’m not that body”. So when I came back, also seeing the simplest - a little thing - going on the surface of the ocean, I [unint.], I said, [unint.] becoming smaller myself, did I become bigger? No. My attention means being in a smaller space. Because you don’t become bigger, and you don’t become smaller. You are you.
You are you, if you concentrate yourself in the petal of a flower, or you [surf?] the planet with [unint.]. Seeing superconsciously.
[end of first side of tape]
connection back. I could feel my body. [cotop?] It was out from the cabin again. I tell you what’s following. He came to me and said “Daskale, where did you go?” I said “what you mean?”, he said “where did you go? You went to your cabin [unint.] you came back.” I said “when
[unint.]” he said, “Sir, in my cabin I have many of your lessons because my brother is a member of your circle in Athens.” I said [Lou?], “and you have anything”. Said, “yes, I have a passport”. I told him, “look here, I [have some?], an island, just like the horseshoe”, and then described what I saw. “Yes, after some time, you will see it from far away with binoculars,” he said. “You know how far you have seen?”, he said. I said, “No need to know the distance”. Why should I know? First, maybe we need more than seven or eight hours so that we see it in a distance, touching a little bit, the diary. What does it mean ‘distance’? [He said, unint.] “I’m not so advanced to understand what you are saying.” I said, “[you plea…?] you better keep silent [yousemmi?]” So, he sat in the lessons in circles in Athens.
Now I’m telling you, “what’s death now?” What does it mean “death”? [Annihilation?] of my self-consciousness? No. The body changing, yes, but what does it mean, it is not changing all the time? Does so, spermatozoa, infancy, childhood, youth, old age. But what’s death? Such thing does not exist. If it is annihilation of the self-consciousness, but now what
50’00”
is the self-consciousness of [wren?] around us? Do we have to develop this self-consciousness of ours? Are other people around us self-conscious? Doesn’t matter. Our nature is the self-consciousness. It doesn’t matter how we express our self-consciousness. [Either may see in an endless sleep?] Or in perfect self super-consciousness. We are we. We are not lost, and we have nothing to lose. Now, every night don’t you enter in that [ceromenical?] nothingness? And the next morning, you are you, exactly as you were before getting to sleep? Can your I-ness, your ego, your self-consciousness be annihilated? Yet in every 24 hours you enter that state, you seeing it’s nothingness. A dreamless sleep. That means entering in your own nature as the Absolute Beingness. Now you are active during those hours you think you are in that nothingness or your self conscious in another world of another dimension. Living there maybe more consciously. And in what you are living in the material plane sometimes we go to call ‘absent mindedness’ or ‘too much absorbed in your thoughts and in your interests’.
Now, you must come to the point of realizing what we are, how we are
living, how we can live better, you see that you can change your life, changing your life - there is no change in you as I-am-I - yes, there is a great change in you when you say “I am George”, “I am Joe”, or “I am Mary”. The changes in the personality expressed in time and space, not in you, really, so what is the real gain of a human being in this life, to study what is a phenomena of life - any phenomena of life - just study the nature of Mind he is using in making it into one’s thought, understanding, or thought forms. Learn the nature of thought-forms, the elementals, observe the nature of these elementals, of the qualities of these elementals, and then in the course of time, he realizes that ‘I can be the master’. Not the slave of circumstances, of matter, of emotions, and/or of thoughts. That’s what I call ‘self-realization’, knowing the real self in all its stages of expression. Don’t you think that this is, after all, the real gain of a human being being
55’00”
privileged with the self-consciousness? In realizing who he is as an everlasting, eternal being.
Is that all? No, we must know the relations we have with other beings - the Archangels. So, there is a vast field to work in it. The material plane, the phenomena of life, studying the phenomena of life, studying things and circumstances, and coming now into conscious contact with the Archangels. [Demass?] and everywhere around us. Conscious contact, not yet, self-conscious contact, because there is a great difference, just to feel them and understand something about them and even get messages as people say, and most of them mis-understanding what they receive, though they say ‘I am not conscious of hearing these voices’. This or that. They cannot be sure unless they are self-conscious. That means the self be in contact with the Archangelic self, because all Archangels, of all orders, are expressing themselves as an ego: I-am. That I-am is common to all eternal beings, no matter in which order they belong, any Archangelic order or in the human race. That’s why I say every human being is an Archangel.
All of the creation, the material plane, and for those who will know consciously and self-consciously, the psychical plane and the mental plane, all the creations are manifestations of the elementals, especially creative elementals, of the Archangels. And as the Archangels are creating
elementals which materialize, human beings are creating and projecting elementals, which they build either their prison or hell or their parlors of paradise. So by the same material which is Mind, we can build a hell or a paradise. The same water we used to drink, we can make mud - bad smelling mud - so we must be careful not to make bad use of the super substance, formless, of the Mind in forming what I call ‘dirty elementals’ not to call them evil. And what [I’ve been…?] day and night, human beings subconsiously, so I do not say unconsciously, without the consciousnessly without the real consciousness, we are making bad use of the Mind in forming it into elementals, whether we see them or not, we can feel them, not seeing them we can feel them, because we are all the time under their influence. In developing, through this use, a kind of self which is not ourself, which you call the egoism. Now you understand the difference between your ego, the master,
60’00”
the light, and the egoism, which is the time and place manifestation of the sum total of all kinds of elementals you are using. Can you have a noble, a gentle, a good, egoism? The quality of the egoism of anyone is according to the quality of the sum total of the elementals feeding it, and of course you have all kinds of elementals. Hatred, envy, love, compassion, all mixed up. So you never have the same egoism in two men. I mean in quality.
Now, can a mystic see the egos of other people an how that egoism is, good or bad, as we call it? It’s a reflection in what you call the aura. Which is your aura? We spoke about the etheric double of the material body. And also the etheric double of the psychical body and the mind body. The psychical body is reflecting an aura, which, by the colors of it, one we can see, with the psychic quality of that personality, and we distinguish the nature of the elementals composing it.
That aura has also in it another kind of aura. And one see-er, must be able to just separate it and study it. It is called the health aura of the material body. So you have the health aura, that you can study, and you have also, what you call the aura, give us the quality of the personality: the radiation of the various elementals in it.
So, what is psychometry? This aura is in everything that person is using.
In his clothes, in the letters he has touched, and especially, in a photo taken by means of the light. So, if somebody would present you a photo - a real photograph - by touching it, you can come in touch with the aura, and if you are a see-er, you can see many many things, health, and also quality of the elementals composing it. This we call psychometry. Now, if they present you in a newspaper, printed by ink, by a person, taking what we call a [cliche?] from a photo, can you come in touch with his or her aura? No.
A photograph is needed, taken by the light, and not that. You cannot come in touch with the photo, just from seeing the face, no matter how clearly is that face printed on that paper. Of course there are other ways for the see-er. Exosomatosis, and not by what you call this ability of psychometry. Now, can we come in touch,
65’00”
given the hankerchief of a fellow who he can, who he used? No matter how far is from here, maybe in another continent. Yes, what does it mean? How do we come in touch with that there fellow? An [inshaldehe?] means what we call an absent healing. How we can help him?
So, every aura of the etheric double of any of the bodies and especially of the etheric double of the material body is projecting around everywhere a kind of radiation, which you can come in touch with. Electrical, magnetic. Call it whatever you like.
So, everyone of us is everywhere on the planet. Not only that [farno?], but I cannot reveal more.
So, we can help someone being thousands of kilometers away. By sending an elemental to go help that fellow, [unint.] and healing. You can do it, what we call, consciously and all psychical healers are taught to do it, consciously. [leave?] self-conscious. Only mystics can do it. What is the difference? Sending an elemental, that elemental will do its work as instructed, and according of course to the strength of the builder of that elemental. But it isn’t necessary that you know what that elemental is doing that moment, unless it comes back to attach itself to you and let you know. Otherwise, when I say, send self-conscious elementals meaning
that elemental in it, is you. As a self-consciousness. And you know any moment, how that elemental works, and give it directions.
[Dozah?] all elementals possess the intelligence of the fellow who is casting them or built them, projecting them.
Now, being in touch, self-consciously with your elemental, but you are casting many many elementals - hundreds of elementals you have - how can it be that you can be in constant touch with all these elementals, can it be? Yes, if you can do it self super-consciously now. So you have, by exercises to get the skill, to be in touch super consciously, self-super consciously, with the elementals you are doing.
There is something else some of you have noticed. You are writing it in letters. Somebody wrote something about what is that something, in the book. Some of my qualities, he understood. Printed on paper. But, a book, is not what you see, ink and paper, a nicely looking book for a children, its what it includes in it, as thoughts. It can give you the image of what it contains in it by reading it,
70’00”
understanding it, no matter in which language. So I have said that people from all over the planet, from America, Norway, Japan, Australia, many places who got that book, in German, or in English, and they could come in touch with my aura, not by describing me, not even painting me. [unint.] Coming in contact, getting help, without knowing me personally, meeting with [insurfrances?] somewhere else. What does it mean? That we can radiate everywhere. And our radiation can be taken by the body just having this quality of becoming a receiver. A receiver. Yes, a very strong and nice radio. Not a wooden box without any contents, we have as many boxes as you, in here.
You have a radio, in touch with all broadcasting stations according to its strength and quality. Can a human being become such a radio? And receive what is around, [indacan?], everywhere? Yes of course, but it needs work, sincerity with the self, and years of training, if not centuries of training. Sometimes for certain things even centuries needed of training. Many years of training.
But now compare this kind of life with the life of a man or woman around us: slaves of a devilish egoism and living in a way leading to despair and dissatisfaction. Now, I’m putting the question, what’s life? As a phenomenon of life around us? What is our life, as a phenomenon of life, in a material body? As a present day personality? And what we can be? Say now, we can be? Because nobody can be something he is not now, but we can be that means realizing what you are, as even a present day personality.
What I’m aiming at, no one should despise his existence as a present day personality - low matter, how sinful he might think he or she is - or unfortunate, because saying “I” he expresses his true nature, as god. He expresses his self-consciousness. So what is our aim? To clean everything from out the dust. David, the prophet and king, said in one of his hymns, “I am your likeness and image, though I am bearing faults and crimes”. He says “have mercy upon your creature.” Creature. [Lord?] because as human beings living in a material body, we are creatures, created in time and space, yet, we are gods,
75’00”
eternal gods. [Sandso?] humans.
So, we must realize who we are and how to free ourselves from the snares of matter, time and space.
So, I insist and say again that our best friend must be the Bible, especially the New Testament. You can find everything in it, and especially, for us, the parable of the prodigal son must mean much. It says in the parable that one of the brothers - the beings in Absolute Beingness - asked from his father to give him what is his. Property, he says. And I want to go away, to live. A palace. And of course the father gave him what substance, which is the Mind. He went out. He has spent the Mind, his substance, it says with harlots, with drunkards, with criminals. He spent it and was forced to become the guard of swine. What are these swine? His elementals. And be fed with the food the swine were feeding. The gods got feeding the swine. That means, transforming the Mind into elementals. Till he came back to senses, he remembered he was a prince. And he still is a prince. And reading the part he says “I’ll return to my father”, now, as a sinful being, and will tell him, “Father, forgive me, I sinned.” I saw, you
can read it in the Bible, “forgive me”.
But what it says there, in the Bible, one step the prodigal son toward the Father, ten steps, and the remaining nine steps the Father to embrace him in his arms, and have him back. In the parable, we don’t see the Father rebuking the son who returned, he has wanted to dress him with the first dress, the princely dress, he was a prince. He gave him the ring, on his hand, what is the ring? What is in our Symbol of Life? Eternity. Because if Absolute Beingness is motion, movement, move on a ring, there is lot of feeling there is no end. You may move to all eternity without stopping to any point.
So now, the prodigal son knows what’s time and space and the eternal now. This is the symbolism of the ring put on his hand. But, he has sacrificed, he says, the cow, the bull, the well-fed bull. Well fed bull. Well cared by the Archangels and the Holy Spirit, body. Had to sacrifice it, because flesh and blood cannot inherit the Kingdom of Heaven, says Christ. Now, his other brothers, said well, you have never given [meninmy?] to sacrifice, but he did with [unint.]
He didn’t live in a material body, the Archangel. Of his own. But is that an ‘envy’, of the Archangels in the behavior of man? And when
80’00”
the prodigal son returned back home, was he in an inferior place than his brethren there? The Archangels, from the Thrones, the Principalities and the Authorities? No, he was more privileged. He had the knowledge now.
So, many are asking me, who did we come to earth, here? What’s the purpose of coming down here? Said, ‘to become masters of matter, and motion, and thought.’ [uninit.] And then, being the masters, you can use it, being faithful, according to parable of two [dinarsigua?] becoming the govenors of two cities, says in the Bible.
So, there is a purpose for our coming as gods and sons to the material plane, but we must have some let down lessons, what’s more, to become masters of matter, thoughts and motion. What are they, motions? What are my desires? How shall I control them? How shall I become the
master of them? And how am I using the Mind now? Now, I must use the Mind creatively now. So there is the purpose of our coming down here. To realize who we are, and know, know what [know?]
Now I’ll give an example. Suppose in a very nicely lighted room, this born child. He knows the light, he is living, in the light? And we keep him here, for many many many years, without [sulipe?]. He grows, in the light. You tell him one day, “what’s the light? Stupid fellow, can you tell me what’s the light?” You [capux?] him because what’s darkness? Lack of light. How does he know. “Come on, tell me, what’s light?” He will not be able to tell you, what’s light. Take a good, moment, open the door and show him the night outside, “now, come in”. Ask him the question, “What’s light?”. He says, “Now I know what’s light.” That. That child was in the light, he didn’t realize what was the light. He didn’t know what was the light. So when you come in contact with many Angels, and dark Angels, of all orders, someday, you put them some questions which they cannot reply to, because they don’t know what it is.
Do we mean that Archangels are in an inferior place than we are? From the material side, yes they are. There are things that human beings know, and they do not know, unless they live in a material body, as spirits in a material body. All Michaels do not know since all the Michaels who are serving in material bodies, they know more than the Michaels who are not in a material body. And so all the other Archangelic orders. When you come in self-conscious contact with them, you will just understand many many many things.
But, our intelligence in comparison to their intelligence just that of a little boy with a scientist [unint.]. In many many things, that they do not understand, and we may consider ourselves privileged, but, unless we return to our nature, as gods,
85’00”
cannot understand the Archangelic super intelligence. And you find it out by being in self [condention?] conduct with, where, why are we with, the there in your body, they are working in your body. They are the Lords of the Elements. And you are living in a body they built for you, with the Holy Spirit. And I said, most wise superconsciousness. Think this [unint.] explain to you many things about our existence in a human body and in the
other bodies.
But how shall I speak to you about the other bodies, since, you don’t know them. You don’t use them, yet. So, any questions now?
Participant: Facing the situation with man [of salvie?] it was made, and the son came down according to your teachings…
What’s that? [unint.]
Participant (cont.): Could you please explain the real meaning of the story of Adam and Eve in Genesis?
And you are reading in the Akashic records, can read it, and all said the same things. Now, first of all, there is not any fall. That’s the Divine Plan. Cannot say fall. You come the divine plan. Yes. What’s the will of certain beings, following the will of God of course, to come, to be humanized, it’s a mystery, to all. And even not known to the Archangels, who built them the bodies. It’s not known. And Christ didn’t reveal much, of course, he says “Do you know about the earthly things and you want to know about the Heavenly things?” when asked by the advanced pupils. It’s in the Bible.
Now, seeing a human body, we find that it’s either male or female. Why? Obeying the law of duality. Why? [uninit.] This is the total wisdom of God. Two eyes. Two lobes of brains. Two nostrils. The tongue. You can see in two things. Two lungs, two chambers, upper and downer in the heart, spleen and liver, so many glands in this side of the body the same number in the solar plexus, in the other side of the body, to a human to a man, two balls, to a woman, two ovaries, two tubes, two feet, one in the [unint.], of course, more to you, I’m not allowed to speak about this law of duality.
Yet, we see him coming today, a developed nervous system, sympathetic, parasympathetic, of course orthodox science, is studying all the senses. How were the first Christians according to the Genesis? Because everything is in symbolism. You have other… before coming to that I say…which is the difference between a man and a woman? All the organs possessed by a man, a woman is possessing. But what are active in a man are inactive in a woman. [hotocrassavar?] are active in a woman,
are inactive in a man so that you’ll
90’00”
have the completion in their union. You have to press there for a woman to give milk. [uninit.] The male organs in a woman are artifacts. And the female organs in a man are artifact.
So, now, when the Bible says God created man to his likeness and image, to put him in paradise, which is in between, thus or among, four rivers. The four elements. Symbolically. And then, he say that man was not good to be alone, he had a companion. It says he took from his rib, one and made the woman. What does it mean?
First, the man was an hermaphrodite. Self… [unint.]
Self-creating?
Generated. Now. We have a doctor here, we have other doctors here. Why do we have two lobes of the liver? What is there necessary to be two? You have one spleen. What’s happening there? The projection of a [mer?] existence in life of a soul. Goes from the belly. So [selling?] in a kind of sleep, because if you see it in there that’s a line, and the [duar?] was coming out, did not crossed, I mean. And that plasma coming out will not look after a father, mother. But the conditions there, moisture, everything there was making it to develop. In the time. Just like the father, mother. And this was happening for years. Not in the material plane. In the psychical and mental planes. Until, they had the sin, to taste, as they said, the apple. What’s the apple?
What is it? Just, a sphere. A planet. To be incarnated. That means tasted the apple. So, it says that Archangel, probably Michael, with the sword flaming and rotating - which is the kundalini - a man chased out of paradise. And it says and then God dressed them in leather skins. Then they had a material body. Man and woman had a material body.
93’43” [recording ends]