1990.02.15
The Lords of Karma - Daskalos February 15, 1990 - Transcribed by RTT
00’00”
Our Father, Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on Earth as it is Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever.
Absolute Infinite Beingness, God. Everlasting Life, Love, and Mercy. Manifesting Yourself in Yourself as your Total Wisdom and Your Almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect Your Love towards You and all other human beings.
Amen
Today we shall see what is a human being. What WE are. Of course, we have double nature. The human and the divine nature as human beings. We have double nature. We are Spirit Soul Ego selves. Immortal gods. We are the Everlasting Life as Spirit Soul Egos. Yet, we are also human. And the human being is created. Created by whom? We must see the Divine Plan. First, it has been created through the Total Wisdom in what concerns the human being and the will pleasure of the Infinite Absolute Beingness, the Logos. So, we are and we exist. Two different state of things. Our [Spirit Soul Ego? Missing audio] is everlasting, immortal, beyond time, exists. In the worlds of existence there is a beginning and an end. It might be that end the beginning of something else because everything in the Absolute Infinite Beingness, Life, is motion. Vibrations. Expression. This is how we are understanding life but is that the real life? So we have also, in studying life, to see two things: the Everlasting Life which is the Absolute Infinite BEness and we shall see also the life manifested, expressing the Will Pleasure of the Absolute Infinite BEness becoming as the Absolute Infinite BEINGness. Then, we have the Logos, the manifestation, the expression of life. So I have life now manifested what is the Absolute Infinite Life, the real life, no human intelligence can understand except that it is everlasting. Only that he can know what is life.
04’53”
Though we are the Life, as Spirit Soul Ego beings, we understand ourself by reflection, by the image we are casting, in the mirrors of the worlds of existence. In the noetical, the noetic of course, the psychical, the emotional, and the gross material worlds. So, as human beings we belong to the worlds of existence. As divine Gods, Spirit Soul Beings, we ARE in the Absolute Infinite BEness as a Spirit Ego. We are in the Absolute Infinite BEINGness as a Soul, reflecting a shadow on the worlds of existence which is the human being. But, now, who created the human being? Because a human being, as all other things manifested in the worlds of existence, are creations. They are created. By whom? The creators, but who are these creators? So, we know now the polarity, or the multiplicity of the Absolute Infinite Beingness. You can know the various orders of the Archangels, gods, the creators. Now, as human beings we are related to them because they are the creators of our bodies: Of our gross material body; of our etheric doubles; the etheric double of the material body; of our psychical body and the etheric double of our psychical body; and our
noetical body and the etheric double between the noetical and the noetic body. So we have three bodies in form. In the human form. And three etheric doubles. Now, the etheric doubles. Why? Are the bodies not enough? Must we have also the etheric doubles and what does it mean the etheric double? To have something I must have the mold of it in which it will be constructed. So to have a material body I must have a mold. Is that the mold in which it will be constructed? And this mold is the etheric double. It’s a mistake to think that some systems think that the etheric double is the reflection of the material body. No. It is the mold in which the material body is constructed. And it is under the authority of the Logos, of the Holy Spirit, and of the Archangels. It is not under our authority. We are living in a human body by grace and not by right. Because we know nothing about it. Others are constructing it, others are looking after it, and we are living in it. So, the Holy Archangels are supervising and have authority over the material body through its etheric double. The work starts in the etheric double to have an effect of it. The creation of the material body. Now, what is the form of this etheric double? Multiple. Definitely the mold is the form. But which form? Of the whole material body, of the organs, of the cells. So, it’s not only one mold I have in the etheric double, but many many many many forms. The form of the atom in it, in the material body. Of the cell, of each organ. Each organ has its own form. Its own way of functioning. Yet, we have the etheric double of our material body.
10’10”
So that collective form, having many other forms in it, and just see working perfectly. All the organs in the material body are working perfectly so that we will have what we call the perfect health. So, the whole work starts from the etheric double. Now I’ll give more clearly this. Before the creation of a human being we said we were, and we are even now, Spirit Egos. Did we leave the Absolute Infinite BEness? No. Only one ray of our Divine Self is coming down. We are already in the Absolute Infinite Beness. Spirit-Gods. That’s our real self. The everlasting immortal self. But passing through the will pleasure of the Infinite BEness to the worlds of the BEINGness of the Logos for the manifestation we enter in the divine plan. We enter in that state we call the Logos. In Aramaic its El Shaddai. Then that ray of our spirit ego self gets a form. The human form. And they are becoming ego souls. What is now that ego soul? Our soul. We are the soul and we have bodies in relation to the spirit-ego-self, the same. The same in quality, not in quantity. I’ll give a poor example. Suppose I have an open window. And I have this room. It’s an open window and the light from the sun comes through that window on the floor. Now, the light from the sun to the window
and the light from the window to the floor is the same. No obstacle in between it. But now, I see on the floor a square light, or a triangular light. Depends upon the shape of the window though the quality of the light passing, coming from the sun, and passing from the window to the floor is the same. So our soul is immortal God. It is the same as our spirit-ego-soul. Now all religions, especially the Christian religion, speaks about the spirit and the soul without defining it. I think it’s better just to define it. The ego spirit and the soul ego are the same. It’s God. Immortal, everlasting. What about the light on the floor now? The human being is there. So, the light on the floor has the shape of the window. So, we have our human form. We as human beings are the light on the floor. But what’s now this light on the floor? What’s its relation with the light coming from the window down and from the sun to the window? There is much difference in the light.
15’00”
Now I have the light flood on the floor. There I said I have the light rays from the window to the floor, then rays from the sun to the window. Now, what is the human intelligence now? We are expressing now the light on the floor. On a surface. Not more than that. This is what I will call the common human intelligence. The common human consciousness. But, is that human common consciousness not able to ascend and be at the same time on the floor and yet travel on the rays become the rays of the sun? Of course. Because the light is the light. So, it is flood on the floor or whether it is coming from the sun the light is always the light. So, this is our relation as human beings with our self, our soul. That’s what I said yesterday. That even in the human being, in our bodies, our present day personality is God. God covered with clay. With earth. And with the mind substance, the vibrations of which you call emotions, desires, and many other things. Then thoughts. So, studying all these things I reach to the conclusion that I’m not all that. I’m not the floor. And I’m not even the consciousness on the floor or through that. What am I? Christ said that in Greek and in Aramaic. In greek He said when He was asked by the Pharisees, “Who are you?” He said (Speaking Greek). And, in Aramaic, He said (Speaking Aramaic). “I am what I am.” That’s what now is our real existing self in time, in expression, and in place. Now I will come to another point. What is consciousness? Now, we can study what is human intelligence expressing what you call human consciousness. But is that all? Is that what we call waking consciousness? Which is the privilege of every human being everywhere on the planet. Which for me is a kind of subconsciousness. Waking consciousness is not what you call the self consciousness. What is this thing we call consciousness? This is what a seeker of the truth tries to find.
To know it, assimilate it, and feel it is part of himself to express it. You have consciousness in various degrees of expression. We have mentioned certain kinds of this kind of consciousness. The instinctive consciousness, the subconsciousness, waking consciousness. Let us call it the self-consciousness studying the human nature but that’s not all. Our real self-consciousness is the soul-ego-consciousness and, further, our spirit-self-consciousness. So we have this what we call consciousness which is not again our self. It is our expression in the worlds of existence. I think it’s rather difficult to understand all that with words. You have to experience them in making certain exercises in introspection, observation, concentration and meditation. But, on the correct lines because people are using subconsciously, not to say unconsciously, the mind in the wrong way.
20’06”
We have just to use the mind as light in the proper way so that we will know what is our soul self beyond its reflections, beyond the image and the likeness of God, to understand what is our real self, God. Now, we made the description. When a spirit-ego-self decides to reflect one of its rays to the worlds of existence immediately it is accompanied by a ray of the archangelic orders we called Thrones. And that ray is our archangel, Guardian angel, that accompanies our spirit ego self, ego-fied, becoming one with our ego so that we will live as human beings. So, we have from this point again a double nature: Our being self and the ego-fied being of the metathronoos, which is our self also, being ego-fied yet it keeps its own purity. So, why? This is the will pleasure of the infinite beingness. And it says in the Bible “And God said ‘Let us create man to our image and according to our likeness just the same as we are. As the Logos is and as the holy archangels in it are.’” And so the Lords of the Elements co-vibrate with this will pleasure of the El Shaddai, the Logos, to create the human being. But, according to the divine Total Wisdom everything is there as the archetypes which are in the authority now of the guardian archangel, the metathronoos, ego-fied to our soul now consciousness. Perfect. On that the holy archangels of the elements will start working. Nobody will start building a construction unless he has the plans. So the plans are in the hands the authority of the metathronoos, our archangel, the guardian angel. So, what is there? The permanent atom. The noetic cause law which will be reflected as a form, the human form. Our form. From where do these holy archangels get that human form to work with? To build even our human bodies. Really, that was a great question for me also and I got the answer lately through the archangel Yiohannan. He said “My love you always had it in you even being one with the absolute infinite beness.” So, we always, as
spirit egos, had that nature of becoming humanized. To become human beings. The other archangels? No. They have their own nature. So, we are never losing our human form even after returning to our divine nature. We have our human form.
25’00”
And this is the form, our spirit self, which is everlasting, incorruptible. Now, we said the archetypes of everything concerning the human form and expression is in the authority of the metathronoos and on it are working all the holy archangels of the elements. Seven orders of archangels. But I’m afraid I’m not allowed to reveal their names besides mentioning the names of four only. But there are seven. Seven orders, having in the bodies of each one of us, one of their holy order. Of course those I’m allowed to speak are the Michaels, the Ma Ha Els; the Raphaels; the Gabriels; and the Uriels. These four I can mention. I’m not allowed to mention the other three. They will be mentioned in the in-more circles. Not openly. Because maybe certain people will make bad use of those vibrations of these archangels because they are the lords of materialization, dematerialization, and of extending the light consciousness of the soul but extending it upwards or downwards? Don’t want to create black magicians just abusing this super-substance of the mind. So the names of the three archangelic orders will remain secret to the public. They will be revealed though to those who are worthy of cooperating with them. In what way? In purifying their human heart to reflect the divine Love and their love. So, speaking about the archetypes. On the permanent atom, the archetype of which is in the authority of our guardian archangel, the metathronoos, luminous, splendid are everything concerning the human form and the bodies. The form of the atom composing the material body. The form of the bones of the various organs of every gland. How many organs are in the material body functioning to keep for us a material body perfect to live. Even a doctor of medicine cannot know them all. And how the glands are functioning and how the glands are just manifesting the total wisdom of God. So the seeker of the truth is studying what is going on in his material body. He’s wondering at the total wisdom of the holy archangels of the elements, of the Logos, and of the Holy Spirit. Now, what the seeker of the truth will find, after investigating the gross material body. You will find out, of course, the mold of it. The etheric double of the material body which is the most complicated and the most perfect than the etheric double of all the bodies. So, studying this etheric double of our body we know the whole wisdom, the total wisdom of the creators. Studying the etheric doubles of the psychical and the noetical doubles, our bodies, we are allowed to do that?
Of course. But these etheric doubles are not so complicated. And they are under the authority of the human being and he has to work with them as I will explain when we finish the study with the study of the etheric double of our material body.
30’00”
Now, the material body has its etheric double. The mold in which it’s built up in what you call the course of time. It starts from the spermatozoa. It has its etheric double. Then pregnancy, developing, the embryo in the womb of the mother. Changing every moment. Ripening. Is that the word? Just to become the child. So this mold, or the etheric double of our material body, is changing every moment. Changing. Who’s causing the change? The Total Wisdom of the Absolute Infinite Beingness. Of the Logos. The Holy Spirit and the Archangels. A child is born becoming, a different now, entity from the mother. Starting its own life. Now, the holy archangels start their work on the etheric double of the newborn child, boy or girl. Growing it. So, they make the changes every moment on the etheric double, the organs and everything, and the effect of the change is the growing up of the material body. Growing, growing, growing till a fellow really will reach what we call the old age. What is death now? Such a thing does not exist. Because what people make the mistake to call death is the change but the change is every moment. And the change we can see it. Everybody of you had been a child, a girl or a boy, playing on the floor. As a small boy. Where is that boy now? Or that little girl? Holding her arms a doll and playing and the other just holding the marbles or collecting stamps. Where is it? The child of five years old. Orthodox science says that every seven years not even a particle remains in the body. Where is that what’s that self of yours when you were a child? It’s gone. Died? No. Changed. To become you. Now you are this age. Suppose some of you keep this material body of yours living after twenty years. Not even a particle of what is in your material body will be in that body which you will say I, myself. What will become of your body now? Change. And orthodox science found out a great truth now that matter is indestructible. Its simply under changes. Even matter, matter becomes energy and energy becomes matter and everything is what you call the mind. And you have the mind as mind super-substance, formless. This mind substance reflecting the causes laws into forms. And then you have the mind in still lower rhythm of vibrations and frequencies that causes what we call the emotions. Then we have the solid mind which is the material all around us. Matter, our material body. Everything is the Mind in different rates of frequencies of vibrations .Nothing more than that. But, now, who is the one in these worlds,
complicated worlds, of existence? Living in a so-called material body? You say “I”. Who? Who is that I? This is the aim of the seeker of the truth: to find out who he or she is, or rather what he or she is.
35’04”
First, he will study his image. He’s the image and the likeness of God. The image you can see it. Can see our image on the material plane. Our gross material body. Our expressions as a personality. The intentions. The way of living. That’s the image, but the image is not the likeness. We have been created as the image of the Logos according to its likeness. So, this needs much study. Study. How? Introspection, expressing our divine nature which is observation. Training our present day personality to concentrate and then use the mind in the proper way in meditation. Thinking in the right way. So, this is the way. The way of finding out. Now, I said the etheric double of the material body is the most complicated. First of all it has in it the Shekinah authority, the Holy Spirit. It has the form, perfect form. It can never get sick. There cannot be sickness on the etheric double of our material body, yet, all illnesses as sickness on the material body will pass from the psychical body, through it, on the material body. Though it never becomes sick the etheric double, keeping in it the whole, we call it, creativity of the Shekinah, yet all illnesses will pass through it. Why? Because all illnesses on the material body of a human being is the result of his psychical condition: the way of thinking and feeling. Now the orthodox science says it is psychosomatic. Let them explain to us what they mean by psychosomatic. Of course they are using the right word but they don’t know how. So I said the etheric double of the material body is perfect. We can trace it, find it, know it, and use it. This is the aim of the seeker after truth and I have defined it according to the way it is functioning at least to four classes. The first is what you call imprinting ether. It is that quality of the whole psychical body, the vibrations of which, are to be used by the personality in creating thought forms. Mental forms. To use it in the proper way of visualization The second is what I call aesthetic ether from the word, the Greek word aesthesis, or the feeling giving ether. It is what we are using subconsciously to know that we live in our material body. When I gave you yesterday the exercise feel you are in the material body. In reality you were in the so-called etheric double of your body. Moving from the toes, from the feet, to the knees to the thighs and so on and going back and then in the whole, as you think, material body you were on the etheric double because all the organs in the material body were not an obstacle in your movements from your breast to the other so your work was on the etheric double. This is what we will do. You were feeling what? Feeling the
existence of your material body. That’s the aesthetic or feeling giving ether.
40’00”
But I wanted it on higher realms to feel who you are and what you are. This is a more complicated work in passing from the etheric double of our material body to the etheric double of our noetical body. I make the analysis now. How? This is taught in the in-more circle, not in the public. Now, you had the second kind of ether. Ether, of the etheric vitality, which is composing our etheric double. The first is imprinting ether. The second is aesthetic, or feeling giving ether. Then you have what you call the kinetic ether. When I said feel your toes, the knees, that’s a movement. You are moving on the etheric double. Now, on the head you are moving there. So you have what you call now motion in the etheric double. Later we will know how to move out of the body and be anywhere you like because you are a God. You are not an animal, just a poor human being. This is the work to be done by the seekers of the truth later. So you have what you call now the kinetic ether. Kinetic from the word kinesis, or movement, motion giving ether. Then you have the other which is the creative ether. For that no one is allowed to speak. That is that nature and kind of our etheric double which has in it the etheric vitality creating, constructing. No human being should know that? Of course when one, even as a personality, reaches highest stages of self-consciousness, he will know. Who will teach him? He will find out by the instructions of his guardian archangel within him in deep meditation, observation, and concentration. First, he must pass through the whole of existences, contemplation, increase his self-consciousness to higher, higher states then he will know. He cannot be taught by words by anybody else, a master or even read these things in books. It needs training. The books and the masters will show you the way. But one has to try himself and what is encouraging is the parable of Joshua Immanuel, the Christ, the Godman. I repeat again the parable of the talents. He gave, let us say, two talents, only that part of the parable and when he came back he gave him four talents. He said, “Master you have given me two: the material body, the etheric double. I made it the psychical body and the noetical body. I made them four.” What did he say, the Master? “Well done, faithful worker. You have been faithful to little things. I will give you more. Come in the joyousness of your Master.” Which is the joy of our Master? OF the El Shaddai. Of the Logos. The creation. Then you are intrusted by the creative ether of your etheric double. Now, what they have observed, many many doctors, and amputists(?) They have amputated a foot of a fellow. Now, part of the body is taken away from the main body. A leg, an arm, or something like that. Did he amputate the
etheric double? No. That cannot be changed and many, after having a leg amputated, they are feeling pain years after where there were the toes.
45’07”
Which means it happened (?) to be able to feel the etheric nature of their etheric double as the aesthetic ether and feel it. So amputation of the material body is not affecting the etheric double because that's the mold. It’s not the result. It is the cause. Now, the work of a seeker of the truth is to work on his etheric double. On the three natures of his etheric double: imprinting, kinetic, and the aesthetic, or feeling giving ether. And then the fourth quality of it will be added to him by the Logos. There are another, of course, ways that this etheric double is functioning. It cannot be given publicly. I said one, if he knows, how to use the other nature of the etheric double can work what people call miracles and wonders. And our aim is not to show stupid people around us phenomena just to applaud us because the seeker of the truth is free from a stupid personal egoism. He’s approaching things with reverence. So, we said that the etheric double of our material body, the most complicated etheric double is in the authority of the Shekinah, or the Holy Spirit, the El Shaddai, or the Logos, or the Beni Orr(?). The Sons of the Light, which means the Holy Archangels: Of a Michael; of a Raphael; of an Uriel; of a Gabriel, and three more. So, now, we see that we have the same human form in what we call our psychical body. Now, it is wrong expression because the Soul is not in need of the human body. We might call it rather the emotional body. Some authorities are calling it the astral body and they confuse it with the soul. No. This is just the form of the human body, the form of it, with substance. Are there organs in the psychical body? No. I move with my psychical body after I have made it perfect to us it as an independent vehicle for me, but, seeing in it, I cannot see any organs. But it’s a whole and I see centers of vibration. And then you have to learn how to control those vibrations which are causing what we call emotions, desires. Seeing the psychical body through the etheric body of the psychical body of a fellow you will see centers of energy in a variety of colors. From the colors you will understand that fellow as a personality in what place of development he is. So you must know the meaning of the colors. And from the colors of the etheric body of the psychical body that fellow, after leaving the material body, will classify himself in the relative part of the psychical world which he deserves.
50’00”
So, in the etheric double of our psychical body we are building this shell of our paradise or our hell, in which we are living even now. So the changes
inside this shell, paradise or hell, are for us to do. The holy archangels just keep guard as giving the etheric double of the psychical body with the necessary substance as a mother is giving her breast to give milk to the child. Nothing more. You have to use it or make bad use of it. So I say on the psychical body, of every human being there are no organs. But they say, “Say yes we see the form and we see in the psychical body of a man in the other side, eyes.” Yes, he has the form of the human body but he can see from every particle of his psychical body if he will train himself to do so .So in our material body through our etheric double undeveloped now, we see through our eyes. In the psychical world when one is trained he can see from everywhere. And of course distances are different than what they are on the material world .This is what gives the sense of the fourth dimensional world. And this is what brings a newcomer to the psychical world or the one who is going consciously in projection during the sleep life there to be in confusion unless he has those who will teach him the laws of the psychical world the laws of the world of the fourth dimensions. Now concerning the etheric double of the so-called psychical body there on it are the centers of energy colored according to development of that personality of that person. No more than that. What about the noetical body? It’s just the same. It’s formless. And you will find also in the so called noetical body the same things. The same centers colored in the same way. That’s why many are calling it psycho-noetical body because they are united. Where there are certain badly colored with deep colors centers in the psychical body they are at the same time on the noetical body also because the one is affecting the other. So, though the material body and the material etheric double of our body is in the hands I said of the holy spirit of the laws and the archangels the etheric double also of the noetical body and the psychical body are in our hands and you are responsible for them. We are given simply the substance which we make good use or bad use. We are given the mind. All this is the mind. We are making it good use or bad use yet in the holy archangel are the archetypes which are exercising on each person an attraction. And subconsciously we are feeling how our etheric doubles of the noetical or the psychical body should look like. But this is done subconsciously. This attraction will lead us one day back to perfection. But we are free to color our psychical and noetical bodies as we wish. But we are living in worlds of existence governed by laws.
55’00”
Going against those laws have to undergo the consequences. This is what gives the sense of karma. Karma is a Greek and a Hindu word because
there is a great relation between the Sanskrit and the Greek language. The Greeks call it Krima, the Hindus call it Karma. But there is a misunderstanding now. People in the west, studying what the Hindus are teaching about Karma, think that Karma means to suffer something bad for something bad you have done. That is not the case. What we might call Karma is given also by Joshua Immanuel the Christ. “Whatever one sows so he shall reap.” Which means doing something bad the consequences will be painful, but doing something good, you have to receive relatively what good you have done. Even, he said, if you give a glass of water you will receive it back. So, for us this term must mean the law of cause and effect. Relative cause, relative effect. It’s again a blasphemy in certain religions to think that something a fellow has done as a sin, for that he is doomed in eternal hell. There is not such a devil God to punish human beings in this way. That’s a blasphemy. God is most merciful. What happens to us is violating the laws, the coming in (?) order of the law we are facing certain consequences and a relative cause is giving this relative result. Not more, not less. Because there is perfect justice in the authority of Uriel. The Uriels, the Lords of Justice, Order, and Equilibrium. So we have mentioned four archangelic orders. I am allowed to speak a little more about them. The Ma-ha-els, billions and billions and billions of Michaels, yet one. How is that? You can know, not know what is human nature of the Heavenly Man by studying the character of a human being, of a person. Because each one is separated from the other. We are in the world of separateness. The Archangels are not. So billions and billions and billions of Archangels called Michaels, they have their individuality, each one of them, yet they have their common archangelic self-consciousness. They are one. Now this is rather difficult to understand before knowing what is common self-consciousness in the Logos. The same with the Gabriels, the Raphaels, and the Uriels and each of these, individual now, archangels is destined to do a certain kind of work. Nothing beyond that. And all of them cooperating amongst them are giving the total wisdom of the Father-God. The one God. Though there are billions of Gods there is one God. They are in the one great reality and authority. So, what is the work of Michael? And where is the point they are cooperating? Michael is the Lord of fire, light, and heat. I completed the triangle. How to use these three qualities I am not allowed to say.
1’00’00”
But it is the three qualities creative and dissolving. Not destructing. There is not such a word as destruction. Dissolving just an expression of it. So, we have the Michael. The Lord of fire, heat, and light. Now, we have Raphael.
Raphael is the Lord of the etheric vitality. Michael’s color is blood red and all the shades of red. Now we have Raphael. The color of Raphael is the violet color. It is the etheric vitality. It is darkness to the human eyes yet it is the superlight which is not related to the light of the sun under the domain of Michael. He is the Lord of another kind of light. And unless you know it, you cannot understand what it is. Yet, is there not heat in the etheric vitality? Of course there is. Maybe more heat than you can find in the rays of the Sun. How you work with these qualities of the etheric vitality again I say it is work of the In-Most circle. So we have now Gabriel. For this we can speak. The element of liquids. How many kinds of liquids we have on the planet? We have kerosene. We have oil in different kinds of density yet you have fire in it. You can light it. So, even in certain cases of the expression of Gabriel I have in it Michael. This is what I call the cooperation amongst the archangels. Where do they cooperate? In our bodies. In our material bodies they are cooperating. in nature all around us and in every form of life. In every expression of life. In every phenomenon of life they are cooperating. How? You get readymade (skip in tape) You call it food. Prepared by the holy archangels. Liquid, the animals you are consuming, and everything. It is light. It is water. They are cooperating to create many many billions and billions and billions of phenomena of life in all the vegetable kingdom, in the animal kingdom. Human being is consuming them as food. Who is just changing this food you are eating, you call digestion? And each archangel will get its own substance there so that he will make it creative in your body. Here he will store fat. Here it will be a muscle. Now everything the work of the three archangels is giving you the red warm blood circulating in the whole body. Can you imagine what a splendid and magnificent work is done now this moment in your material bodies? In the blood. Now, The creative ether they are using. Suppose I stab with a knife and open a wound on your leg or on your arm. If you will see that it will not be contaminated it will be cured, healed, closed down. How? You don’t do it. You don’t know how it is done yet it will be closed. You are running. You are breaking a bone on the leg, on the arm, something else. That tends to join.
1’05’00”
It’s more splendid work on the solid bones. Who is doing it? How it is done? Cooperating with the Lord of Earth, Shamael. But it’s done. You will see it. You can see it. Yet, who is observing it? And as a human being will give thanks to those lords of creation preparing a perfect body for him or her to express themselves in it. Who is giving thanks? Why should we not? Why should we not respect their work for us? And is that creative splendid work
just in vain without any cause? So, a human being expressing a divine self-consciousness, and a human perfect intelligence if he wishes to express it, should understand this creative work in his own body. More splendid work he will understand studying the etheric double of his material body. Studying his psychical body and noetical body for which he is responsible to give the right human shape and qualities. So, the material body and its etheric double, perfect, is in the authority of the holy archangels, of the Logos, and the Holy Spirit but can be given even to us, to a Seeker of the Truth who will use observation, meditation, and purify himself to use it. Cooperate with them. But what concerns us is now the psychical body which is our present day personality. Our emotions, weaknesses, our subconsciousness, our life which is not the life of the material body. The life of the material body is completely independent from the life of the person living it, though he is influencing the health of the material body by burning up the etheric vitality with an unessential way of living. Of course this he will learn by observation. By learning what is life in the material body. By knowing and understanding who he is in reality and who is thinks he is, which is not, which is imagination. Now we will make an exercise.
1’08’30”
Breathe deeply. With the air you are breathing, in it is also the etheric vitality for the etheric double of your material body and your material body. There are many many kinds of etheric vitality. Breathe deeply. The air is filling only the lungs in your chest. It will not go anywhere else by breathing, yet by breathing you can feel the etheric vitality going to any part of your material body, I mean the etheric double of it. An aesthetic ether. Now, see that every time you breathe in this etheric vitality is in the whole material body. You will feel your thighs, you will feel your legs, you will feel your feet. So, the air enters only the lungs yet the etheric vitality you are breathing can go anywhere you wish to go by concentration in your material body through the etheric double. So feel your feet. From the place you are sitting on the chair to the toes of your feet and feeling them you will feel they are getting warm. There is warmth now in this etheric vitality filling your feet. Thighs, knees, legs. Try to feel this warmth. Yogis in India living in mountains, in the Himalayas, on the ice they can just get this warmth giving etheric vitality and keep their bodies warm. Feel this sweet warmth, your etheric vitality, on your legs, thighs, knees, legs and say with your mind, I want perfect health to be in these parts of my body. Subconsciously you are working for it. the holy archangels will be pleased to see that you acknowledge what they are doing. They see you. They feel you. They know
you. You don’t know them. Breathe deeply and store this vital energy now in your abdomen and the legs, and the feet. Feel your abdomen. Continue breathing deeply and feel the air in your lungs and the etheric vitality in all your material body through the etheric double of it. Deep and comfortable breaths. Fill the whole body with this etheric vitality. Feel you are in the material body. You are existing now as an individual being. Enough.
I take from the mind of three or four of you, studying certain books on Yoga yet being in confusion. And I will give you certain explanation so that you will be out of the confusion. When you read in your books about a pyramid and you don’t understand what does it mean of course these are things in our system of the inner circle and the in-more circle, the whole material world, everything material, gross material, from the galaxy to any kind of form has as a symbol of it a pyramid with a four sided base. This is the law of the material world of the three dimensions. And each side of this pyramid is symbolizing the four elements I have spoken about today. So imagine now with visualization any size you like pyramid on four sided base. Four corners. Therefore it has four triangular sides. Every side of this pyramid symbolizes one of the elements. So you must have it balanced and according to the four-sided bases is the construction of the triangular sides of the pyramid which means keep in order the material, the ethereal, your psychical nature, and your noetical nature to construct in your nature this four sided complete pyramid which will be a perfect personality. Now I have given to three or four of you the hints. Work on it.
End tape.