1990.01.04 A Daskalos Stoa Lesson transcript. transcription by rhr
Our father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is on heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, forgive us our sins as we are forgiving those who sin against us, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power and the glory, forever. God of Life, love and mercy, enlighten our minds to understand you are truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards our fellow men. Amen.
Q: I don’t know at the moment…
D: yet you have so many questions. Put your questions… you don’t do it, come on… of course you have many many questions regarding not only the lessons here, but also some of your own questions on this philosophy. Come on back.
Q: I put so many questions to you, I am ashamed to put another question…
D: no, come put another question.
Q: if you want to have a question, I put it. OK. Um.. I put it another way. Is it good, is it possible for us to write, medially, with our dual, our guardian angel.
D: Now, maybe not clear.
Q: I have written with an angel, me.
D: Automatic writing?
Q: Automatic writing.
D: But how do you know that it is going to be an angel that is writing?
Q: Yes, but that’s the problem.
D: That’s the problem. Now what’s the Guardian Angel [unint] explaining. The Guardian Angel. When the first time and Ego-Spirit-Self Superconsciousness, and Archangel, yourself, as an Archangel, by its own will and the will of the Infinite [unint] is to be incarnated into a human being, and Archangel, of the many many many billions of Archangels of that order you could call the Thrones, you call the Metathrones, is egofied with yourself, the Spirit Ego Superconsciousness. What does it mean now egofied? Becoming one with your ‘I-ness’. I am. Ich. This is the only order of the Archangels who know how to ego-fie themselves.
So, he egofies with ourselves, which is an Archangel also, as a twin [nasour?] a twin spirit. So in expressing the self of our ego with the egofied Archangel, is carried and accompanied by other five Archangels, of
the orders of Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel.
05’00”
But these Archangels are not ego-fied. They have their own Archangelic Ego, which is not the human ego. They keep their own identity. If you see, if somebody will see, your Guardian Angel that egofied in a [dathunrus?], so you think he will see you? Because he’s egofied, becoming one. He becomes the other side of the same coin. One coin, with two sides. And so will remain like that until the final return, accompanying the Present Day personality in all reincarnations. That’s your Guardian Angel. You are not changing a Guardian Angel every time you are born. But that Metathrones, the Egofied Archangel is accompanying you in all universes and planes, in the mental plane, in the psychical plane in the material plane, then passing over to the psychical plane again… he’s your Guardian Angel!
In the mental plane they’re coming down… so from the very first moment, you are an Ego-Spirit-Self Superconsciousness. You are accompanied.
What epoch expires? We return after eons and eons and centuries and centuries back. So what happens to the Guardian Angel? Is he leaving us? No. He will always be a kind of second self.
Now I said ‘egofied’. Yes, but we as Archangels express three ‘ghosts’. Be at once, the same, where we have the three triangles, in one triangle. You have the expression of 3 Egos, in one. One center, and three circles with the same center. Your ego, is your Present Day personality…. an artificial ego carrying a name and a kind of way of thinking and living. Nationality, place, influence of the place…. So this is our ego self consciousness as Present Day personalities. This is the same ego, all throughout our incarnations. No matter that the same ego was here into another name except the one we have today… so that ego has carried many many many names in past incarnations. It’s an ego.
I am I. So, we experience also, in developing ourselves beyond the illusions of time and space, and experiences in the material world, what you call our ‘inner self’. Our Soul Ego self-consciousness. I have put a question, when I was giving a lecture to the centers of Cambridge, to certain Doctors of Divinity and Science, of course, of Philosophy, “Do we
have a Soul?”
I am putting you the question now. “Do we have a Soul?” We don’t ‘have’ a soul, we ARE a Soul. So we are the same ego now, in Golden Letters. But [unint]. And then that means a circle. Inside, another circle, all having the same center. The inner circle expands to the [unint] of the outside circle. But the Ego is not changing.
10’00”
The Ego is god and the Ego is our real self. It is what is gives [unint] the sense of Self. Subconscious and self. Consciousnessness and Self-superconsciousness. So consciousness is expression of the self as Ego. gods. We are not becoming smaller, or bigger. We are Egos. But what we call expanding, bigger becomes the range of our impressions and conceptions. Not whether we get impressions from a little sac of water in the petal of a flower, or the tendrils, or extend ourselves to have the whole planet within us. Whether we become smaller or bigger, we are the Ego. In quality, we are the same.
In expression, yes, we expand. Though this is very very difficult to understand. Then we’ll pick up understanding now. Unless you practice meditation that enters in what I call extasis, to expand and find that you are not a body, and just a present personality who is all the time changing and changing and changing. So the personality is changing, the range of our conceptions is broadening. A change, yet, we are an Ego, we are and Ego. Not becoming bigger, not becoming smaller. And Ego which has never been born, and will never be annihilated or die.
Because God is eternal. So what are the characteristics of this Ego of ours? Also, the egofied Archangel?
Life. We have not been given life. We are the life. So have this in your mind. That is not something which is given us. We are the life. The Ego is the life.
What Christ say in the Bible? The Spirit is life and is giving life, the flesh is nothing. He state that, Christ, in the Bible. So.
Now we said the Metathronios is egofied, becoming one, by what we call
‘at-one-ment’ with our say, Spirit-self-superconsciousness. A god becoming as a soul. Consciousness, even Super-consciousness, but consciousness is he egofied also with our soul. Consciousness, our Guardian Angel, yes. He is also egofied with that state of our soul self.
Now, is he egofied with our present day personality? No. He is not. He remains there. Look if somebody was seeing clairvoyant in the psychical plane, and you will think he’s seeing us… yet he doesn’t share our present day personality ego. At least its expressions, what we call transgressions, sins, weaknesses, that is our material self.
Now, that’s an Ego. To our present day personality to all of us, we live in the material world.
15’00”
Does he live also in our material body? Yes, of course he does. But he doesn’t share the responsibility of our present day personality. Which is the difference between the egofied Metathronios and ourselves? The relations of a wise mother to her child. This is the same. Guarding it, keeping it, helping it. Yet not interfering with its own growth.
Q: You say the Guardian Angel is that part of my consciousness that is still in heaven?
D: Still in? Why the heavens? The heavens are within.
Q: Yes, at the highest vibration. My question: How about two Angels, two personalities, two consciousness. One is female and one is male. Because my Guardian Angel says that she’s a female.
D: Who said that?
Q: She said it, by writing. Automatically.
D: No, who shall explain that? The Guardian Angel is neither female nor male, yet both. How is that? We have a law, law of duality. In electricity, in magnetism, in everything. So, this law of duality is the law of the material world. [unint.] Quite low duality. Even you have it in the material body. Two feet, two hands, two eyes, two nostrils, two lobes of brain, two lungs, two
sides of the heart, the liver, the spleen, two balls in man, two ovaries in woman. So, you have this duality. This is necessary to the duality.
But, in this case we also have the duality. In the duality in the material world, certain people during the course of centuries, to the Divine Will, became men and women. Every man has however a woman atrophied. And every women has what a male has atrophied. You have two breasts, they are not like those of a woman, when they stop growing, they stop growing. You don’t have them in a male person, it’s of no use. Its there, you have them there, here. So in the woman, it’s of some use. Of course the other things, you find them in a woman, atrophied, and in a man, atrophied. Not in use.
For example, you have two balls. In human, I mean male. In which there will be the work of creation. You don’t have these in woman, you have the two ovaries. Different work. To cooperate, you have the two tubes. So what you have active. No let us not call it atrophied, call it active or inactive. What you find active in man the same things you find inactive in a woman.
You understand that? So. To have the duality, you have an expansion, if you are male, your Guardian Angel, his shadow, will look similar. When it’s a female, the Guardian Angel will look male. This is a phenomena.
20’00”
But it is [unint] because all human beings have male feeling. If you have it like that, then there they are, in the old time, man was a hermaphrodite. So to be male or female is to the Total Wisdom of God a process for the prolongation of life. So what’s the use for to have our Guardian Angel to continue expressing just sex? You don’t actually need sex, the human being’s active in sex. His role remains in the consciousness, more of the soul. That’s why most people cannot come in contact with their Archangel. With their Guardian Angel.
The don’t know even if he’s a Christas. Now I put this question. Is our Guardian Angel in contact with us? He knows us. He knows what we are doing. He knows what we are thinking. He knows the way we behave. Of course he does. Not participating. Of course he does. He becomes the crystal clear mirror in whom we can reflect ourself, even our sinful self. But
reflected on the surface of the mirror. You are talking from the mirror. Suppose I have a nice flower. And I put it in front of the mirror and I see a lovely flower in the mirror.
You can see it reflected… if I have just a heap of dirt and I put it in front of the mirror, foul smelling dirt, I am not making the surface of the mirror by reflecting the dirt that it is front of it. Now you will get the relation.
So our Guardian Angel has two expressions. His own Archangelic self-consciousness, and our consciousness egofied with us. He’s not annihilated in us, lost in us, but in at-one-ment with us. I gave you the example of the two candles, I have two lights. This light, the candle is [unint]… common flame. That means participating in what we call consciousness and superconsciousness, even sharing our life as human beings.
Take the candles say why you have two flames now. So, what I want to say. By being egofied with ourselves, our Guardian Angel, a Metathronios or a Throne, is not losing at all of its own nature, as an Archangel.
But, he knows everything. Is he sometimes interfering in our life? Does he love us, feel love for us? Of course he does. Of course he feels love for us. Since he’s egofied. He’s feeling love for us. Sometime when we overdo it, who is judge what is good and evil in our life? He or she. Depends. How? What are the stings of consciousness? Sometime I feel “I shouldn’t have done that. I did it. Why? It pleased me. It served me yet, I shouldn’t do it.” What are the stings of conscience? He’s interfering. A man is over doing, he/she whatever knows everything… and interferes. Just like the mother who will sometimes will say “you shouldn’t do that, why you do that? That’s dangerous, that is something you shouldn’t…”
25’00”
So our Guardian Angel is following every action, every thought. Every expression of ours. Without sharing the responsibility, though egofied. Now, does this Archangel feel joy or sorrow? Of course we feel sorry and we feel glad. Living in our normal events around us, impressions, and they can feel such a sudden grief, or feel pain. If the Archangel is feeling pain, grief, love, for us? Pain, no. Grief? yes. Is the reason… but he doesn’t feel our material pain. And I tell you, what is the result of not feeling our
material pain? Sorry, he’s feeling of course, [unint] over to the Guardian Angel for joy. Who said that?
Christ. Christ said that “Joy is to your Angel … your Angels in Heaven… for one returning back.” That means leaving the cares of the material world. So, the Guardian Angel is feeling also grief or joy, but not pain. Not feeling pain, I mean, the material pain because we say he does not participate in the [hymns?] of the present day personality and in the body, is because we cannot remember pain. Never, by so much we have suffered pain in an operation, in an accident, in anything… Many have undergone pain. In a hospital after an operation, and that and that and that. You can remember, bring to your mind the event. You cannot bring to your mind pain. Can you?
These we call it the Grace or the Mercy of God. Or I would say, ‘the many cares for us in the material plane of our Guardian Angel, egofied.
This is the result. Now I have studied these cases… this is the result. Why we cannot remember pain.
Q: I must admit, what you said about the Guardian angel is too difficult to understand now for me. But what I want to ask is, can we imagine, is it true, that a Guardian angel stands in a psychonoetic body behind or beside us. Is this reality?
D: No. Egofied means becoming one. Our psychical body is his psychical body. Not is an entity different from us, as long as we are living as human beings. Don’t think of your Guardian angel as a second personality outside of you. He’s you. As a Soul. So how you’ll understand that after deep meditation, observation, slowly slowly you come in contact, touch with your Guardian angel. And of course, if you ask to help you, to have trust him, he will get there and tell you. Speaking it to you. Direct you.
So, it’s not difficult to have in conscious touch with our Guardian angel. Subconsciously you in touch day and night with your Guardian angel. Now if you sit, quiet in a place, there is a dialog in you. With whom you make that dialog? With myself… that’s [unint] him, is egofied.
30’00”
Our life, in this life, on the material plane, is a continuous dialog about good or evil, pleasing or displeasing… it’s a continuous dialog. If you just concentrate inside, you’ll get impressions from all sides through the five senses, you’ll notice this dialog and say sometimes “with whom am I speaking now?” Yes I’m speaking to myself and I’m speaking with myself. What is just directing my so-called ‘reasoning’? Telling what’s the right, and wrong? Myself. Who myself? That self is our Guardian Angel, egofied. Becoming part of your ‘self’.
So, when you come in contact with your Guardian Angel, you come in contact with what we call ‘inner self’, yet it is not with your inner self, so we call it.
D: yes?
Q: You said before with your Guardian Angel, you are a soul. But the Soul and the Guardian Angel are not the same. Are they?
D: Definitely they are not. But in approaching the consciousness and superconsciousness of yourself as a soul, in that is your Guardian Angel also. Not as a second person. As part of yourself. Yet having his own wisdom. And then those who would not be as present personalities draw blanks. And to know things. It is HIS [unint].
Now, another rule with the Guardian Angels. On coming down. When the Guardian Angel, egofied, comes down, we then start expressing itself in the material plane, you said he’s accompanied, and we are accompanied, by the other Archangels who are not egofied. A Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, and a Uriel. They are not egofied. They keep their identity and their role and their own nature. They are different to us, and we come in contact with them acknowledging and knowing their work. Which means, for Michael, feeling our body heat, energy, life. Of Gabriel and Raphael is for the heat electricity, magnetism, vitality as we say. We have a contact with him by knowing our Etheric Double. As it passes, they are not egofied. They have their role. They are Michael, Gabriel, Raphael…. What then do we give to our Guardian Angel? No need.
The living, the organ, accompanying us.
Now, when coming down, these Archangels and the Holy Spirit are building
for us our bodies. They built each as perfect as it should be, mind-body. Which is in our Guardian Angel. As a model. They give us a perfect psychical body. Again IN our Guardian Angel, as a model. They give us also a material body. These are what we call the ‘permanent atoms’. The circle of possibility regarding our beings. Yet, when we become human, we have a material body and the material body is guarded by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. But we develop in that body a kind of consciousness, which is, as we say, our Present Day consciousness.
Now, we are given a material body to use it. We use it, and they use it. Their gift, and we damage. All the time. They give us substance.
35’00”
of psychical matter, which we have to work it out, and make it a perfect psychical body. So we have in us