1990.01.24 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed by thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory forever. God of life, love and mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen.
This lesson today for those who are running psychotherapistic centers. And I see a good number of you here. First of all, a fellow who start this psychotherapistic centers must have in his mind that these centers should first be for the service to the sufferers and not for any other purpose.
All sufferers coming are his brothers, sisters, fathers or mothers. He should treat them just like that, not as [uninit.]. If he is supposed to be of a success himself, now, he must also have in mind that he or she is only the agent, the instrument of the Infinite Beingness as the Holy Spirit.
Even Christ, who was the God-man, the only God incarnated into a human’s body, he said, as a human being now, as Joshua, “I can do nothing of myself, the Father in me, is doing the works. So, he must never present his personality as doing this or that and claim successes of his own. Because in reality, he or she are instruments for the Holy Spirit to restore good health to the sufferers.
So, the first, first qualification for psychotherapist, psychiatrist, must have is Love. Love towards all - when I say ’towards all’ - whoever comes - a sinful woman, a prostitute, or a saint, for him are a brother or a sister. No criticism. Christ, when he saved from stoning that sinful woman, he said ‘where are your accusers? Neither myself are accusing you.’ And he quoted ‘my daughter, go in peace’. So, no criticism. But love, only love, towards all. If one behaves in that or that way, it is
5’00”
no his or her business. It is God’s business, and of that individual person. A psychotherapist has not the right to criticize. Because from the very moment, he will feel in his heart this tendency of criticizing he is not the fit instrument of the Holy Spirit to do the work. If he wants I said to be a successful psychotherapist, so to say, because the one who makes the curing is the Holy Spirit and not himself anyhow, he should first love without criticism, without choice. The suffering person for him is a brother or a sister, a father or a mother. He must have just this attitude toward the human beings and the work he is going to undertake.
Money. Nobody can claim money for being the agent of the Holy Spirit to restore health in another fellow. Definitely he should never charge for anything, money or of any kinds of gifts for that work. Of course, he has friends and he’s taking gifts or giving gifts. Everybody is having gifts from friends and people he loves and he loves them. That’s a different case. But not for treating people. Nobody can sell the grace of God.
But now running a psychical center, say, a psychotherapist center, many things are needed, and of course maybe the psychotherapist man or a woman are not just financially in a state or just running their take or those expenses. Yes, for the expenses the psychiatric or a psychotherapistic center, he can get money. For the needs of the center. Only. Disposing his time of course for calling people, he should not starve, of course, the time he is spending - he’ll spend much time - if he will spend it in any other kind of business, he will get money for his living. He must judge, and say for the expenses of running the center, these money are needed. And of course, he will not run alone his center, he will have his helpers. And better to have a committee to have an order in the center how people are coming and going, and in this way avoid all kinds of misunderstandings. And he may get a modest salary. But if he can have another work, and his
living from the other work, its better that he should not ask for any, any money.
10’00”
Now, in our centers, we don’t accept any money, because all visit Cyprus and the psychotherapists in Cyprus under our circles have a job. They have to work to have their own job, a decent job, and they’ll spend their spare hours they have just to enjoy themselves as people do, for the service. So, she has to offer those spare hours to the service instead of getting.
Of course this is how we, in Cyprus are running psychotherapistic centers, of course. You, in Switzerland, in German, France and other parts of the world, would just do what you think is right. But, a psychotherapistic center should not be used as a center for means of earning, getting money. This is definite. My suggestion is that every psychotherapist, man or woman, should first have a good job to earn money, and then they have I think, enough time and many hours to dispose for this purpose.
Now, somebody put me the question yesterday about prayer. Should we pray? What does it mean ‘prayer’? We said yesterday, attuning ourselves to a higher super intelligence, so that to make ourselves better channels of the Holy Spirit. Now, what is the prayer? A good psychotherapist, to my opinion, catholic, protestant, orthodox, muslim, or a jew, - that’s enough - to whom we shall pray? Should we pray for hours, if we make our whole life a prayer? Yes, that’s good. Saint Paul said “pray continuously”. That doesn’t mean leaving everything else and just uttering words. But, leading a life which is a prayer, and a praise to the Infinite Beingness. The same, differently.
Now, what a prayer, what kind of prayer should we all use before starting? These last phrases of our prayer today in any language are good and enough. What was that? God of Life, Love and Mercy, enlighten our mind to understand your truth. Clean our hearts - and you must mean that - we need this help. Lead us not into temptations - don’t leave temptation to overcome - clean our hearts to reflect your love - He is the Love - toward you first of all, and to all other human beings without any exceptions. A human being is a human being.
15’00”
This is quite clear. And this is the real prayer of every psychotherapist, man or woman. This are most necessary. The second thing is to qualify yourselves for the work. There are certain sentences we shall reading them. I see many people coming to me, not only psychotherapist but also psychiatrists who got a diploma from a university and the come complaining that they don’t have any success, or very very poor results. Yes.
I had the other day, a lady running a clinic as a psychiatrist who was complaining she didn’t have a success [I said?] I said, “why not?” ‘Cause she got the training - training in anatomy? No, she knew much. She had covered the whole course in the university. But that was not only the only training.
Now, who is psychology now, parapsychology and all that taught in universities? Are these lessons enough? Do these people teaching psychology, or parapsychology - never mind how they call it - know what to teach by teaching Freud, and Atland, and Jung, and all that, who have studied certain cases, who never entered into the causes but took the results of causes to study further results, is not useful.
I have from America, professor she teaching psychology in the universities coming to admit that - yes - they are searching in the darkness. They have been as source, and now they call first the telephone to me now, yes announce, everything you are teaching has really a meaning. When we are questioned by those studying - good enough, until now - but repeating the sentences from the books - now we can reply properly.
Why they couldn’t reply properly before? They were called professors of psychology, what does it mean “psychology”? “Parapsychology?” They use the “sol”, “psychindric”, and this “psycho”. And if you put them the question “what’s that?” Can they reply, could they reply? One told me “according to Freud…”, I said, “no, leave Freud…” Dead, pages in books. That’s not [socrim?] “What you describe me, are certain,” I said, “expressions of the present day personality.”
So, every researcher after truth and especially every psychotherapist - psychologist should know what’s the soul. When I gave the lessons in
London - some, some lessons - I put the question to certain Doctors of Divinity I met.
20’00”
“Do you have a soul?” Of course everybody said, “of course we have a soul.” Were they sure about that? Said, “No, you don’t have a soul.” And all of them were amazing. How a Doctor of Divinity can say that we don’t have a soul. “No sir, you don’t believe in the existence of the soul?” “I do believe in the existence of the soul, definitely I believe. But you don’t have a soul. A soul is not something of having” - you can say ‘I have a knife - cut - I have a knife house - and what ‘I have’ means possessiveness and possession. And you definitely not have a soul. You are the soul. And you have a body, we call a material body. You have also a psychical body, and a noetic body, you have.
You have it’s very different to what you are. They’re different [vested?] You are the soul. We are the soul. What’s the soul? Your I-ness. Your Ego. Your - need to explain it better - self-consciousness is the soul. It’s you, the soul. You must know that we start from this point which is correct and stable.
Now, to the psychotherapists. If you are a soul - god - so everybody coming to you is a soul, man or woman. The soul is not male or female. Human beings yes, but the soul has no sex first of all, so everybody coming to you in your psychotherapistic center is a soul having a sick body, for one reason or the other, yet he or she is a soul. This is the way you’ll get people suffering in your centers. And then love them. You don’t get strangers. You get, yes, suffering people. And of course, you should know the cause of an illness. How you know that, unless you study these things in you, and study yourself.
Now I’ll come to another point. Apart from the work we have to do in our psychotherapistic centers, we have to make our own studies as regards our self as a present day personality. Because unless you know - how you know what is the other fellow facing and suffering from? Won’t it make things some clear? Studying our self-consciousness as a present day personality, we’ll see that we were, if we are not even now, so maybe we are even now
25’00”
under the influence of emotions, desires, passions, fixed ideas, unless you know it practically, how you will know how these things are functioning in the personality of an ill person? And what effect they had, they have on the material body of that sufferer. A psychotherapist is not enough to know there is a kind of energy he can pass from his hands to the other fellow without knowing how to do it. Because by chance he feels that by touching or spreading his hand, this goes, he influences himself his subconsciousness to do the work subconsciously without knowing what he is doing or she is doing. A psychotherapist must know what he or she is doing. What is the nature of this energy? Some call it ‘ectoplasm’. Many many other names, a Hindu said [first?] we pass prana in the bodies of the other. We call it Etheric Vitality. In this way, we’ll keep more accurate expressions. In many many many other names.
But what is the reality behind everything? We must know that this energy - let us call also like that - is in our bodies. It’s not the product and the result the life of [unint.], but it is this vitality keeping our material body alive. So getting this place now, not feeling we are the material body, we’ll see the nature of this energy, Etheric Vitality, and how we can use it now.
Have in your mind you are not giving anything yours. We are getting, and we are giving. This energy yes, can be stored in the etheric double of our material body and we think that it is in our material body. It isn’t the material body. It’s in the etheric double of our material body. And when you reach certain exercises you can see that you can store this energy not only in your material body, but in any place [it?] place in a room, for some kinds. Which means, this energy - this etheric vitality - is not the product of the material body. So you must know how to keep your material body in good health by using it in your material body, and by getting it from the source and passing it to the ill persons, after forming it into the creative, right elementals, because everything must get a form to exist.
Otherwise, it is, and it is not existing. You may know and separate the two states, being and existing. Everything in the world of beingness is existing also, unmanifested. And what exists now, is a manifestation in the conception of time and space.
So, he must know all that. He must acquaint himself as an Ego, I-ness,
Self consciousness, better with his material body.
30’00”
Do people really know their material bodies they live in? He must be acquainted and know his material body. And then, with his etheric double, who for him now it would be a reality, he must be in a state to use his etheric double,
I said in a lesson, if all the time our hands [hung?] down, we never felt them, we never used them, those hands would have been useless to us, completely. And maybe wouldn’t know their existence. But by feeling them, using them, you are sure that they exist. And they can help us. And of course our hands must get the skill of doing that and that and that.
Likewise, by not using consciously - I don’t mean now self-consciously but consciously - our etheric double, it is a thing that is not existing for us, though we may subconsciously use of it - use of it. Now, we must use it, consciously, studying it, becoming to us a reality. Everybody has learned to walk from childhood and is walking, and running and moving about. If you putting the question ‘how you do it’. Can he tell you how he’s doing it? “I’m walking.” “Getting up and down, walking, I see you, but how you do it? How do you move your material body from place to place?” So things we are doing already subconsciously, you have to study them, and use them, use this energy consciously. To use it later, self-consciously, still a different expression of our present day personality.
So, a psychotherapist should know the existence of his etheric double and be able to use it - make conscious use of it. I’ll put it now more clearly, because some of them are doing it subconsciously. Yes, I touch with my hands here, the suffering knee, or the suffering part of the material body, and what do you feel? I’m giving ectoplasm. What’s that ectoplasm? Did I not describe it? Yes but why you are putting your hands on that suffering part of the material body of a sufferer? He has done it, he was taught to do it in certain other psychotherapistic centers. Are there results in this way? Some, yes, definitely. Is this an [ope?] believes, that means working with his subconsciousness, that by putting my hand, they call their hands ‘healing hands’.
I have this or that result. Yes, that works. But subconsciously, without
knowing what they are doing. I told him, ‘yes, come here’. ’Do these exercises, feel your hand, use your etheric double as imprinting ether, form it, see it, feel it and pass it in the patient.” The different men who are running psychotherapistic centers even in Switzerland,
35’00”
in Austria, in Germanys - both Germanys - France, they come for training, and they say ‘oh yes, yes, yes. Now we feel it.’ We can do it. No, we can do it. What we are? You’re doing all the time, just passing our hands? Sometimes seeing certain results, sometimes no results at all. Why sometimes having some results, but definitely if that fellow, having a patient, man or a woman there, while passing his hands, and thinking many many other things, how could they concentrate that energy on the body?
And sometimes being angry, upset … somebody said something, and they start “Oh yes, let me finish with that and we shall see what is after that”. How had that fellow, man or woman, give that etheric energy consciously? It is the energy needed for the treatment is burned by those thoughts and emotions.
So, a psychotherapist must know the nature of the etheric double - this energy - how it comes to us, how we can store it, keep it, not burning it aimlessly and stupidly, and use it, that there would be results. No psychotherapist should start work treating these people having different other thoughts - personal thoughts, or emotions - in the mind.
He must know how to isolate his personality and his mind and fix it on the work. And I say that - conscious work - conscious work. Before I mentioned the word ‘self consciously’ to work. What do I mean by working ‘self-consciously’?
Of course, consciously means using the subconsciousness after knowing how it works, to pass this etheric da- this energy to the other person, but no one, being completely self conscious of the work done. Now self conscious being myself, my I-ness, my Ego, as a Soul now, is doing it, entering in the in body and doing the work.
It is not enough to put your material hand, radiating energy, and caress the knee or the face or the back of a man and expect to see them cured. You
have to Do It. You can use your material hand on the surface of the body of somebody. Can you use it self-consciously inside the body to be a good psychotherapist?
You tell me yes, but you are doing it, and you said before it’s the Holy Spirit doing it. Yes I am the agent, but are these hands mine in reality? Is that the right [time it mind?] Am I doing the work? Or it is according to the will of God. What we say is the duty of any psychotherapist to say it “We promise nothing and we disclose nothing.”
You cannot promise anything. But you cannot
40’00”
disclose something to happen. At the beginning you’ll be wondering. Seeing cases. Very very difficult. Don’t be afraid. It is not you to decide. But never promise anything yourself. You’ll see slight cases in which you can do nothing. You’ll see no result. And you’ll see tumors vanish. Things that others will call miracles take place.
When this morning I came, before coming to the lesson. A fellow suffered with cancer, many years, many operations, many analysis, was a Greek Cypriot living in South Africa. Of course the Doctors disappointed him completely. “Charlie, if you pay that - the analysis.” The wanted to make him radio therapy, this and that and that, suffering in London and in many parts of the world, this last five years and he came to me in despair.
“Sir, I’m expecting the passing over.” How much of the time, have they said that, “I came to you, because…” They come to us as the last hope, unfortunately. They don’t come earlier.
Of course, I was hearing him what he was saying. I wanted him just to express what he was thinking. This time he came alone, the second time he came with his wife, an English lady. Was it an illusion? Maybe so. Again to express me his despair. Because, have [treviot seen?] not touching his women and I had just to work on higher levels, think his mind, his psychical dispositions. I started with psychoanalysis. All the time you are feeling, sweat, he was feeling a kind of excitement, he didn’t know I was working in a different way. Then I told him definitely before his wife left, “you are all right”.
“Here are all these pages, you don’t have anything now. You are completely all right in the material body. Lungs, liver, no speaking about metastis, and all that,” I said, “You are all right.”
He said, “I was thinking I was a fool to be so sure.” I said, “You are all right.” You can go to [sobe-house-advance?] start your busy-ness without any fear. Then said, “I want to believe you. Yes, but don’t you think it is something unbelievable?” I said, “You Are All Right!” “You are so sure.” “Definitely, I’m sure, you are all right. Go for examinations.” And he went for the examinations, I think recorded telephone to… yes. What did he say?
[a female participant speaks] “I am completely cleared by my Doctor.”
All tumors, cancers and everything had been proved now scientifically, by examination, that he was completely all right. Now put you the question: Did I make him all right? Me? I did it? No. It’s the Holy Spirit. It’s God. Great, great, really great honor for us to be used as means for the Holy Spirit to restore health. Can
45’00”
any payment be so great? Is that not a payment, not from the hands of human beings, with dirty, what we call money? Pieces of paper. Or even by other way. This is a payment. From the God of Love, Life and Mercy. What do I want to say.
Yes, every psychotherapist will be paid more, much more, than he deserves to have. By difference of the Infinite Beingness and the law, and that’s his love to him. And he must rejoice.
Now I come to another point. How many cases one can deal with in a day. Two or three? I feel exhausted? If he’s attuned to the source of energy, you’ll never feel exhausted. And if he gives himself to the care of the Infinite Beingness, the Infinite Beingness as the Holy Spirit and the Logos will keep him in good order.
Now somebody said, “Are you sir always in good health, yourself?” If I want to, yes. If…
[47’00” Sound of tape recorders clicking end of tape]
Now, you put me the question “Are you always in good health, not suffering from anything?” If I want to, I can be in perfect health as a young boy of 18 or 20 in two minutes. I can do it. But, what about the debts of others I have to pay? I said we are Christians. And we don’t have only the surface of the karma, of [unint.] or even of those calling themselves our enemies. To shorten them.
Firstly, the instruction of the beloved one. To shoulder the burdens of the others, of the weaker ones. And he said to his pupils something else. “No one should be tempted seeing me in the cross. “In” the cross. He didn’t say “on” the cross. Many thought sometimes there are mistakes in the gospel. It’s as though he said that in Greek, and in Greek it is ‘in the cross’.
[mi-ti-spirus?] he said that, [levantos-meh-in-dos-davro?]. Even the classic, they met high standards [the book?], put there this sort of mistake. He said ‘no’. He said ‘no one should be tempted above weakness’. Seeming me ‘in’ the cross IN, shouldering the burdens of others - was clear.
So, if, call it destiny, call it karma, call it the result of an effect, of a cause, you have to shoulder such a burden, don’t deny it. Have it. Not with great pain, with pleasure. And I think, I had enough, myself, during this two years
50’00”
operations, I was not afraid of. Just to save somebody to be alive, after learning his lessons, but his remaining more to be paid, [unint.] my appendix bowels out, and everything, a good Doctor, where I, were I at that moment? Outside of my body, above him, and by reason his body, seeing and seeing what he was doing on my body. Afterwards I describe him what he did. Starting looking at me wondering how I knew what he did. “I saw you.” “You saw me?” “Yes” “[unint.] you see me?” And of course at that moment he was upset is something a Doctor there for coming a little late telling him heavy words. Which I repeat unto him what he was telling.
Another Doctor who was there who is a pupil and he knows these things, said “Look here Doctor, he hears you what you say there.” “What you say?” “I have this powers [unint.] see [unint.]” “Yes, he hear you.” “Yes he hear you.”
And when he finished, he finished the last stitches, I said, “Did you finish Doctor?” “Oh. He’s awakened.” When going, I told him, “yes, you have a very rich,” I said, “vocabulary of Turkish insults.” He told me you are hearing [unint.] there was hearing [unint.].
Simply I had to make exosomatosis, and instead of going away, stay here to follow he ought - what he was doing. “What have you seen?” he said, “Tell me,” he said.
“I was… amazing how you were handling my bowels and putting them back in my belly, just using your two fingertips.”
“My goodness” said he, “saw everything.” “Yes, I saw it, because I was awake.” Which means I didn’t get any of what others call karma, myself, but my body was [live-e-sant?] of these things are only on the human body. So how did I [doint-why?]. We Christians, psychotherapists, psychiatrists, should shoulder the burden of the weaker. The Hindus, they are waiting, because ‘why should I get the karma of others?’ Let them have their own opinions, and let us have our own opinion.
I’m a Christian, I’m a proud I’m a Christian. But a Christian. And a Christian means the unwon knowledges: Life, Love, and Service, as mercy and not as sacrifice. Have that in your mind. I said I want the mercy and not the sacrifice - he said that in Greek - because Christ was speaking in the Greek language, in the Aramaic, and sometimes in Latin. He said, “Eno phenok eo etesia” I want to see the mercy, and not the sacrifice. And I’ll never consider that you are sacrificing anything.
So this is what we should have in our minds. Whatever you do, as a psychotherapist, you are not sacrificing anything. You are not giving anything yours to sacrifice even. You get, and you give. So, this is for the
55’00”
psychotherapists. Knowing the nature of this etheric double. Knowing it by making, self conscious now, use of this energy, and this will become a knowledge to him as the truth. So, he must know his etheric double as imprinting ether, by exercises which need time, much time. Nothing is very very easy. Usually using it as the imprinting ether. What do I mean? By meditation, concentration and visualization to make, self consciously, elementals. That means using the super-substance of the Mind, making it into a form, and see the form. That is the called - I called the imprinting ether.
Then, getting the mastery over what I say the ‘kinetic ether’ and feeling giving or esthetic ether, it is the same - feeling. See it, and feel it, controlling it, directing it, giving it a certain form. The is the training for creating strong elementals. Angel elementals. Constructive, restoring the health of the various fellows, so long that it’s not at all need to touch with your hands, because whatever you do, it is again, elementals.
So, make use of the etheric double as esthetic and kinetic ether. This is most important. That means living self-consciously in your elementals. The psychotherapist may be in need of having more than 2 hands - the material hands. They must have an etheric hand, to be able to materialize it, and through that dematerialize things in the body of a sufferer. How you do that, make the etheric hand, ‘cause at the beginning make the etheric hand? Feel them - so that later you use them in materializations and dematerializations. How you make an etheric hand?
Now, this exercise, after of course becoming the master of the imprinting ether, that means already right visualization. Sit before a table with a white cloth. Put your hand on the table. Feel it. It is not usually difficult to feel it, move the fingers, feel the material hand. Feel it. And within imprinting ether see it also, but inside that hand, is another hand. White. It’s preferable to see it white.
Now. Seeing with your mind, and feeling the hand, you start with beating of the heart. Six beats of the heart raising the hand to touch the shoulder. You can hear it, for getting how the hand - how the heart is beating. So, see my hand. One, two,
60’00”
three, four, five, six beats of the hand - the heart, the hand is on the shoulder. Feel it. You move your fingers. Feel it touching the shoulder while the elbow is on the table. Then, take another breath and in the third breath, in and out, lower it down. One, two, three, four, five, six. Another deep breath, in and out, see it there, resting there, the hand there. Up again. So. One in breath, and out, going up, and then one, breath in, stay on the shoulder or be on the table. Make it five times. The next time, leave the material hand on the table and see the etheric hand coming up to the shoulder.
Another six beats of the heart then the material hand is there on the etheric hand and you see it moving coming to the shoulder. See it. Now move the etheric fingers as you have done with the material fingers before. You must get practice.
Then another rest, coming down, the etheric hand, see it and try to feel it. It’s difficult to feel it and so not difficult to see it. You are master of the imprinting and kinetic ether you see it coming in the material. Take another deep breath and see both hands the etheric and the material there on the table. Then start again. Raise up the etheric hand. Touch there the etheric fingers on the shoulder. Rest one. Rest in and out, and then, back again. Do it another five times, then stop, on the first day.
What you feel? You feel the material hand just in strange feeling when the etheric hand is over. Try to feel both hands now. Feel them. So that the etheric energy will not be in the etheric hand only, and leave the material hand. You have enough energy not for two hands only but for 100 hands.
So, the material hand is full of energy, and also, the etheric hand is full of energy. Now this is not difficult. It is more difficult to feel the etheric hand with the esthetic ether. Feel it! Control it. Move it now and feel it. And of course, no need to put on the shoulder, here on the table, put it hand like that, see the other hand moving here and there, feeling it now.
So we want to put the esthetic ether in the etheric hand. Now, you can do that. You can move things. We are not doing this exercise to just show telekinesis phenomena. We don’t want the phenomena. We want to use it. To make it strong, make it our instrument under our will. Use it in other ways. Which ways?
You do four hands if you like, two material and two etheric hands. When you have some time [scoliosis?] a fellow, very bad spine. What, with your two hands you can do not right, but if the spine was inside making a man back hurt, how you’ll make it come out? You have to put the etheric hands in the body of the fellow, with the feeling esthetic
65’00”
ether feel the spine, and then by your willpower materialize fingers the way to push it out. And pushing it out to put it in a position, and then, take them out from the body of the other fellow. The etheric hand. Have you seen such phenomena?
[woman’s voice: yes, many times.]
You have seen also the etheric hands? But you saw the phenomenon.
[woman’s voice: yes]
But if you were master of visualization, you could see them. If you are clairvoyant. So. I will never call a psychotherapist perfect before being able to use etheric [hand-cers?]. When you use them, then the Holy Spirit is teaching you and the Holy Archangels are teaching you how to make materialization and dematerialization. This is not to be taught by human beings but to be granted, as a reward, from the Holy Spirit. Any you coming this way, with this etheric hand, dissolve or dematerialize tumors if you’re allowed to do it by destiny.
So, no need sometimes, to touch with your material hands anybody, that we can be working with the etheric hands. How far? You can extend them anywhere you like. These hands. But feel them there, doing the work. Is what I have done with the fellow. He was feeling… he said “I am feeling but cannot… what I am feeling.” He was feeling that something was taking place in his body, while I took the determination to dematerialize many many tumors - he had metastasis - in the lungs. He couldn’t breath, ‘for knives’, “I couldn’t breath,” he said. Metastasis in the liver, in the pancreas, even, in the spleen.
Happily, metastasis didn’t go to the material brain because then it’s much much more difficult. Now. Sending elementals to treat fellows in a great
distance, if you know how to make these elementals of balls of light with the various colors which light to suit certain purposes, having only a photo or something belonging to some fellow, and attune yourself to his vibrations, you can sent it all over the planet. This is absent healing.
Of course, even for that, prayer is needed.
What’s prayer now? The wish and the prayer to the Infinite Beingness to restore health on a sufferer but end with ‘thy will be done, not mine’. Make the petition, in prayer, but not the claim, and if those patients - maybe it be longer? - is not to be cured, don’t complain. You don’t know. Infinite Beingness knows best.
So, you have first to dominate completely, even annihilated, your personality. And surrender, your self consciousness to the Holy Spirit, that means taking away your personality. If you can do that, you will see phenomenon. And others will see many many phenomenon. But never never accept even thanks for what takes place. Thanks, to the Infinite Beingness. Not to human people. Now I repeat
70’00”
for everything that will happen, people may call it a miracle. You are not allowed to get any money as a reward. Did you not get any money until now? Some people are coming, giving for the purpose, usually not only rich people are coming but very very poor you have to give money, not only to help them but even buy medicine. Always. If they cannot afford paying. So you must have a cash, and all those money will be just for what you call it charity. Now charity. What does it mean? Not giving as something yours. But giving because everybody have the right of having. That’s the so. So that cash does not belong to you. Have that in mind. Because. Call it help.
But never have the idea that you are sacrificing something you have taken and that’s yours. So, you are allowed to have that, because many times, you will feel that you don’t have enough money. You are old, and if there was a cash you could be of some help to other people. Then you see. They are in need of something, and you don’t have the means to help them. Get used to people having this thing coming at you, and be of help to them. Not only in this way, not only in this way, but people who are in
need of money are not spreading their hands. Those who spread their hands, they can get this money from everywhere, but there are people who are not willing to spread their hands and may die of starvation, without us doing anything. They have what you call that self-disposition. They are the ones most in need to be helped. Need of help. [Ekhart?] subject yes.
Certain people who have to get money to buy medicine for their children, and yet that man would have been considered by other people vicious, stupid and evil. With many suspicions. But for me, he was considered to be stupid. That fellow, with his wife, more stupid, who were thinking that I was their enemy. They had many many many enemies, these people, who are sending them anonymous letters, insults and all that and that. They got another fool there then who thought that maybe Daskalos was doing that. They even went to the police. And they said that they suspect me. Of course that fellow “this is the handwriting of Daskalos” We have nothing to do with that. “Yes, we suspect that Daskalos is sending these anonymous letters to us. ‘Cause one of these letters came through some poor being to me ‘eee’ [bad tenentment?] insults and things I said [made them do it?] “How could I write such letters?” Would that be possible for
75’00”
me, to write such letters? Then I said “Keep silent” when I saw that fellow [dealing me?]. Of course when they were starving I was cooking and taking to them food to eat. They didn’t consider that. They started stupid attacks, said I kept away, not going [aimy-a-way?] you are in need. I was going to their house on bright nights, time that nobody knew. There was soon and envelop under their door with money. Of course, they’re gotten money, they didn’t think who did it, but they suspect having their money was letters, ‘cause the chief of police who was a pupil, said “You are fools. This cannot be.”
He came to me, when I taught him long, what happens, this and this had happened, this and that happened, they suspected, you have sent anonymous letters. “Yes, on three occasions I have done it. But not with address on the envelope.” He said, “but what do you mean?” We said the dates, the time I have put under their door and envelope with so much money. Because they were in need of it.
And other time they state, this I have done three times, do you call this
anonymous letters? He went to them and said, “Look here, I have some messages. Did you have that date, a letter, not with your address on the envelope, under your door with so much money? Because you needed them the child was ill with typhoid?” The husband was looking at the wife and the wife was looking at the husband. “Yes, on that occasion, And on that occasion, the time you were considering him your enemy and you were enemies to him?” “Yes.” “[serim?] in the future, because I am a police officer and I will arrest you.” [unint.] After that they said they wanted to just come to talk arranged. They came one day. They entered before the fifth [cabat?]. “don’t be stupid.” They said “forgive us.” I kissed them. And I taught ‘Look here, no need to forgive you, because I love you. And people I love, there is no need to ask me to forgive them.’ Of course, Yiota my daughter [from Europe?] didn’t even like them to come to me and even approach me, I said “Yes. Don’t come to me any more, because I don’t want people to feel just in the way.”
What I want to say to this psychotherapists, you cannot have enemies, even if people around you will be jealous and foolish and stupid, to behave in an inimical way to you, you don’t have the right even to complain. Love them. Maybe they are more in need of your love than others who are loving you. So have this in your mind. Forget yourself. You are love, nothing more than love. You must love.
So, any questions now, before stopping with the lesson? No questions?
[fellow speaks:] uhhh, we love you, you didn’t include Doctors in any of the discussion, you included psychotherapists and psychiatrists, but not general practitioners, Doctors.
Now look here, psychiatrists are those coming with a diploma, they have this kind of training and of course they are running they call it a psychiatric clinic. They are just the same as any other kind of doctors - pathologists, surgeons.
80’00”
[Othoheno?] and so what. So, we have in Cyprus many such psychiatrists, ‘cause these fellows have given much time and money to attend the necessary university and the got their diplomas. They have to live on that. They have to accept clients there. You have even in our
circles such people. They are allowed to charge for money in the same way any other Doctor of medicine is asking for money, but as a Doctor, some who are in our circles, these are not in this to make you rich. I don’t interfere in that because they are coming asking my advice! Said, “no.” This according to your conscience. Your father has spent so many thousand pounds to make me a psychiatrist, to open a clinic, he said that. “Put your hand”, I said, “On your heart. And see what you will charge.”
John came to me the other day, [unint.] from the mass and said “Sir, am I psychiatrist or a psychotherapist?” He started laughing, I said, “Both.” As a psychiatrist, I might charge, yes, from those who can afford paying, a certain say, price for it. “My wife is angry with me, [with her quite?] she is also, a psychiatrist, graduate of [conavariat?] university.” “And have you got both a diploma?” “Yes.” And of course [handle it?] you’ll get. Sometimes you don’t charge any money from poor people. These are not remain [towards?] anything I said, you are reaching up from your salary? And she said “Sorry, Gina” From her family.
Said “We made many many quarrels because I am not charging money, and she’s charging money. What she’s going to do with this money, she’s quite recalcitrant. And I will bring her to you. She came to me, and she is now a member of our circles, now. She’s just like her husband, now.
Yes. What’s yes? You gave me the inners of the mind of my husband. Which means, I see both of us have ill now, [unint.] psychiat….[laughter]
I said, “Look here. If you feel so, let us got to your psychiatric visit, what you’ll advise us?” Now of course - what do I want to say - They are rich! They are not in need of any money from this profession. But now they are psychotherapists! Instead of psychiatrists.
But all of them are not like that. Other have to work to live, and they have even children. They must just get money, in the same way that they could get money by doing any other work. And again, I say, this is according to the consciousness of everyone, not myself even to suggest anything.
Yes.
[woman’s voice] Many psychical healers use their third eye or clairvoyance to diagnose illnesses. You didn’t say it was a requirement
but that it would be very helpful. Can you tell how to develop it?
Yes, by doing the exercises of the Researchers after Truth, that means studying their bodies. And what is going on, the third eye opens in the course of time. No need to make any other special exercises. By making the exercises, to train themselves to be the masters of the imprinting ether, visualization that means, one day they find out, they have it. Without any effort.
85’00”
So, I don’t see that there is the need of any special kind of training, and this training is for every researchers after truth. Exercising or practicing, when we start visualization, Visualizing things, that means bringing them from our subconscious to the surface, revitalizing reenergizing them, in the course of time, things are coming - you know - these things I see are there! It’s not my creation. And these I am creating. Then you start being clairvoyant to the psychical plane while even being awakened in your material body. In the beginning people are getting frightened. They shouldn’t.
So, in the course of time, you are awakening yourself to what we call vision, call it clairvoyant, clairaudience. Now, which is the best exercise for that? Many, very often, this question is put to me. Visualizing flower, visualizing animals, visualizing that or that or that, I said, “No matter what is the object of your meditation, visualization and concentration, what is necessary is to get the mastery over the Mind, and be able to create from the formless super substance of the Mind, Elementals. So, this is what you need. Training. Not your objective. And I would say something else. Oh, sir, we prefer see carnations and dalias, and this and that and other things like that, and that’s very good. In this way, you concentrate better if you like something to concentrate on it. Yet, after practicing some time, you get more power in being able to concentrate on things you don’t like in reality. And try to like them. That means real mastery. [unint.] Is it possible that I should concentrate totally on a [oh] fellow. I saw a snail, just going on the pavement, in a winter day, after the rain. oh. And I thought, can I concentrate on that? Are, on a snail going? Then I felt you near me, so did you?
[man’s voice:] yes
having [I not?] concentrate on that. I should concentrate all the time on nice flowers. And not on that. Then I sat and I meant, did you really influence me that or that was my imagination, no. That was me. Concentrate on any thing. Not only on things you like. What we need is to get the mastery over thought and visualization. And doing that, you take away all obstacles stopping you to get the mastery. It’s not only on things that really are interesting you and you like to concentrate on, but at the beginning it’s better just to select, this makes this exercise easier to you, faster to get the mastery of visualization. Just create with your mind anything, even things that you wouldn’t like before. That means mastery over thought.
Yes. Loud please.
[woman’s voice:] It is nothing to do with ego, [Daskalos: with?] if you concentrate on things, it is nothing to do with ego, egoism?
Now, you are putting more…. Ego
90’00”
and Egoism is not the same thing.
[woman’s voice:] No, but if you try to do things [Daskalos: yes?] sometime egoism is behind [Daskalos: yes]
Egoism may come to you if you haven’t cleaned it already. “No I don’t like to concentrate on that” I tell him no. I would like to concentrate on it. There is just an opportunity to catch your egoism and say no no no, come here. You are not indicating to me what to do.
Yes, egoism is going to say “I don’t want that, I don’t like that”. You said, yes, but, I will do that. This is just a very very very good case to catch your egoism and separate him from your ego.
Yes, Louder.
[woman’s voice:] How can we prevent ourselves from the illness coming back if somebody has healed us?
You can never contract any illness, even those contagious illnesses if you turn and train your subconscious not to contract it. In reality you are not getting an illness [for a main?] fellow, but the fear in you may create it. So before you should know how your subconsciousness works, and how you to be the master of that subconscious. Because our subconsciousness - I said to in a lesson - can be our greatest friend, or our greatest enemy. We can do everything because it’s Mind in the total wisdom. So be sure you don’t make your subconsciousness your enemy by allowing things around you to impress you. Fear is a great enemy. You should be afraid of nothing. What, these are the suggestions of the egoism - you have to get rid of. And even the psychotherapist should put in their mind, before treating any fellow, I’m not going the karma or the illness of anybody. So, you must have that in your mind. And you are free.
Yes.
[woman’s voice:] she meant she has been healed but how can she prevent the illness from coming back?
Take it away from your mind. Forget it. Once cured, you are alright. That means you have gone beyond the cause that created it. Don’t bring it back yourself. So that’s to be trained to be master of the subconsciousness. Any psychotherapist and any psychologist -psychiatrist - should know more about what we call subconscious mind in the present day personality - but you have [chem-a-nin-es?] [arighting?] for that.
And we’ll give more detail about the subconsciousness tomorrow.
Yes?
[man’s voice:] uhhh
94’04” [End of tape.]