1990.01.18 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
Note: Daskalos speaking is in normal font, questions from attendees are in italics.
00’00”
…are in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us while in temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory for ever. God of life, love and mercy, enlighten our minds to know you and your truth, and clean our hearts to better reflect your love to you and to all the other human beings. Amen.
Yes.
The first one is what about astrology. What type of connection is there between planets and human beings?
Now astrology. Definitely there is an influence of the radiations of the planets, on the earth, not only on human beings, generally, on the earth. We all know the influence of the moon, on the earth and on the sea. But, what it matters to us? Who is noticing it? Uprising of the sea and the coming down according to the influence of the moon on the sea. Why is it not mentioned in astrology? The immediate influence of the moon on the sea? Influence are from other planets also, definitely. But in a lesser scale. Yes they are influencing the plants, the trees, also the human beings.
Should we believe in astrology? They say that the man who was born from that day to that day is undergoing this and all that. How many thousands of men are born during that period? Are all of them having the same character, the same behavior? And they are under the same influence, to be lucky or not? Just same. Some influence, yes, but not in this extent of making us believe things that really, are not real.
Now, what we care of, in our circles? To make a man, as a present day personality reach a decision in union with his inner ego self, to become master of his emotions, and of his thoughts. This is what is really interesting.
This influence of the planets on the earth, yes. The position of Mars and Venus and that and that they say. This, ah, influencing people on the planet. Yes, definitely. Maybe they make a man more nervous, shouting, quarreling
05’00”
But if he, has succeeded to overcome all these things, these influences may make me more energetic. The same influences which will make a man nervous, speaking, shouting, kicking, are making another, sober man, more energetic, and also, really thinking. So, it’s not influences that count, but how we use them.
I agree that there are certain influences on the planet, on the human beings, the animal life, in the trees and everywhere. But, we should not give so much attention to it. We would give more attention in developing those qualities in us that will not influence negatively, but positively. Those who like just to believe in Astrology, let them do so. But it’s not really as they think, they should not be led to prejudice, but right thinking. Reasonable thinking. I don’t know if I have pleased you because many who have, they spend much time studying astrology and all that and horoscopes and all that - you’ll not be satisfied- but mind you are not led to prejudice instead of right thinking.
Our souls are known Monads from the Absolute. Does this mean that all souls who are ever, will be, are all already in the Absolute or are they part of the Absolute or the Absolute?
Now, we say that the Absolute Beingness, in its multiplicity, in its multiplicity, yes, now we must make the distinction between the ego spirit self super consciousness, and our soul-ego. The same ego, in a different way of expression. Again super-consciousness. And then our ego as present day personality and permanent personality. We said that in the lesson yesterday. If we consider our ego, self superconsciousness spirit ego, it’s the light of the sun from the sun [coming to?] the window, open window.
And then, we have the light from the window to the floor. That light, from the window to the floor, is the soul-ego. Is there any difference in the light
from the sun to the window and from the window to the floor? Yes, the shape of the window. But the light? Now the light on the floor is different. The light on the floor, every floor, is the material body and the present day personality. But again it’s light. That’s why I say “the light” is ego. We see it from the window as the spirit ego self-consciousness. We see that the soul now
10’00”
is coming down, and the light on the floor. The last quest… the last ahhh, thing in the question is, “Are we parts of the Absolute Beingness or we are, what?
Or the absolute
Can a drop of water from the sea claim to be the ocean? It is the ocean though! In substance is it not the ocean? And then, a pail of water from the sea, how many drops of water we have in a pail of water? Is the collective. That is just the same as the ocean again. So con-substantially, we are. But are we the Absolute Beingness now? Now, we put it in a different way. We are in the Absolute Beingness. And the Absolute Beingness is in us, not with us. So you understand the difference? We can claim that we are the Absolute Beingness in quality, not in quantity. It’s not of course a good example, but you cannot find any better.
Yes?
Uhh. “I am I” means “I am the soul”. You, Daskale, uhm, she said you, uhm, working in the middle of the earth. You as a Michael were working in the middle of the earth. Are we as souls working in the function and development of the planet.
Of the?
Of the planet. Are we, as souls, working for the function and devolvement of the planet?
Now look here. As far as I know, we change the face of the planet. Not for the better. Where the Archangels are visiting the creation, in the
mountains and trees and all kind of life there, we destroy just to build up building, even tree zones. Yes, that we are influencing the life on the planet, yes. The life on the planet, yes. We are influencing it. But the planet is a material body in which, on which, around which, all the Archangels are working creatively. If we study the circles of existence and possibilities, as I said, and probabilities, we’ll see that all that is not in need of human interference. Now, as souls, yes, the earth has a psychical body, it has also a noetical body, which is not used only for the planet, and is a part of the collective soul I call the Logos. A manifestation. We call him the ‘pansympantic’ Logos.
Now. This Logos is in us. And we are in the Logos, as ego self-consciousnesses, and even as soul- self-consiousness. The question is “Do we influence life on the planet or our
15’00”
life on the planet? The human life on the planet. Must make a distinction now. What do we mean by that questions? The planet or human life on the planet? Yes even life on the planet, in the vegetable kingdom, in the animal kingdom, don’t know […] are you phrasing it. But is the phenomena of life on the planet really the life of the planet? You would considered [an eff?] of the planet also. The [beatingness?] of the Archangels. Creating, [continue?] under the planet. What an influence you can have on the planet?
For the time being, but again, reading in the New Testament, the parable of the Talents. It says there Christ, the Logos, a Master, gave to some of his workers, certain talents. He gave to the one, one talent. To another two. To the other, four. He went. When he returned, the one with the one talent said, “yes, I know you are cunning, you are not an honest master, you have hidden that talent in the earth, now here, have it back. That one talent is life in a material body. He sent him back to the prison. [in limit?]
The one with the two talents said “Sir, you gave me two talents. Here are four.” He said, “Well done, you good worker. You have been faithful to the few, and I’ll grant you more. Come in the joy of your Master.” The joy of your Master. Not in the way you feel joy on the material earth. Which is the joy of the Master? Creation.
So he says, Christ, to you are, who made the two talents so that means the material body and the emotions, into right thinking, be master of Mind, and of the Causal body, that means life in a material body. What he had done to that faithful worker? He made him governor of four cities.
Now, four talents, you can have them, four of them in the palm of your hand. What are four talents? Those Roman coins. He became governor of four cities. That means, an ego spirit and an ego soul, as superconsciousness, superconsciousnesses now, after becoming masters of matter, psychical matter or emotions, and thoughts. They become the masters.
Which is the joy of our Master? Now go out in the night and look at the sky. Don’t you see that those celestial bodies are in need of governors? Maybe this is a very [bored?] thing but yet, I cannot explain the parable of Christ in a different way. Let him reply, not myself.
What’s the earth?
20’00”
A planet. Now, we as spirit egos and soul egos can influence only the earth, only the planet earth, but the earth is the smallest planet in the solar system. Now, become the masters of matter, the masters of emotions and the masters of thoughts. Be your real self, and then you will hear the voice of the Absolute Beingness: “enter in the joy of your Master”.
The joy of our Master is the creation.
Yes.
How does the so-called Reiki power work?
The?
Reiki power. R-E-I-K-I.
What do you mean?
There are more [unint.] schools ehh, who knows this phenomena. There
is now a system that is in America and in Europe, many many people are knowing that and the roots are in Japan and in the Sanscrit
Yes.
Sanskrit and they give two initiations, they [unhinge?] the power to heal, and they say that, and they do that to heal that and to increase the connection from the lower self to the higher self. Do you know about that?
We do Reiki, why do they give it this name? [laughter…] We can call it energy healing. We can call it etheric vitality. We can call it vitality only. Or give it a certain name. Because what does it mean, power? Now, really? How can you define the word “power”? Apart from what we say “energy”. What does that mean the word ‘strength’? Is it not better to call it ‘etheric vitality’? Using the word “life”. “Vital.” Because really these words are not giving any meaning. Or they give meaning according to the certain science you are studying. This is the power, in so many words. This is the power in so many horses. This is the power, it tastes like [rabum?]. What do we mean by ‘power’ and ‘strength’?
Is not better to use the word ‘energy’ and ‘vitality’? How will you use it? We said yesterday that Infinite Beingness, in his total wisdom, love, total love, and - we call it power now - strength, call it whatever you like, Mind. Is giving us certain [youns?] - let us call it like that. [unint.] Send it! Also.
So, we have this kind of vitality. It’s given us. From outside and from within us. And this is just prolonging the life of our
25’00”
material body. Not our life. That’s why I made the distinction, yesterday, between ‘the body’ which is not ourselves, and our selves which is the personality.
Now. We see that strength, call it power, exists in the material body. It’s needed to move the parts of the material body, and move the material body here and there. So, this kind of energy - we don’t have any better word - you call it ‘etheric vitality’. It’s granted but it is given us. Every day. “Give us this day our daily bread”. So, some people call it ‘mesmerism’. Some people say that hypnotic influence. So we hid in different ways of
expression.
When you are putting this question, which kind of energy or vitality you mean? We must become masters of it, and how to become masters of it? ‘Cause we’ll explaining. Do you mean the etheric vitality? In the body? To be mastered and controlled by our ego or our “I-ness”? What kind of power energy you mean? That etheric vitality, others are calling it even ‘ectoplasm’. ‘Ectoplasmic influences’.
You’ll find all these expressions in many many books. But it’s not a matter of using words. What do we mean by these things?
Yes. Definitely such a vital energy exists in a material body as long as that material body, we say, it lives. But again, this energy is not the Holy Spirit. It’s used by the Holy Spirit, used by the Holy Archangels, who express this energy in different rates of vibrations. Vibrations are energy, [arnie?]
But, behind all this so-called energy, there is the super-intelligence, we said, harmony and creativeness, we call the Logos or the Holy Spirit or the Holy Archangels. We made a distinction yesterday between the creator and the creation. And we said that the creation is the phenomena the creator is Absolute Beingness called the Logos and the Holy Spirit. And the means is the Mind. This energy, you are calling it the Mind.
Now, I have the Mind in different vibrations. You have called it ‘super-substance’, in which super substance we have the law of total wisdom, total love and total might. Energy. The source of energy, then you have it as substance. The Mind, to get forms, to project living forms, that’s also energy. Then you have emotions. Are not emotions energy? Mind, emotions.
30’00”
And then you have matter. Matter, to exist, it must have what you call energy. Energy, as motion. Now, what is now the relation between motion, movement, vibration, call it whatever you like, with this energy? This energy can be noticed [sim?] or not [sim?]. If I have a handfull of sand, [unint.] of sand. Having only one grain of sand, you split it into atoms. What’s an atom now? Energy. Science says that every atom has a nucleus. Electrons, ions, protons, so, you give them names,
because they move around the nucleus. Now follow that one. All of them are not doing it at the same speed, in the same distance from the nucleus. The same way in the solar system. An atom is a solar system, says science.
Now, so what’s now energy? In an atom. What’s now energy? In a solar system. Can you understand energy, strength, power, call it whatever you like, apart from motion, movement? And we said yesterday we have motion, movement as the nature of the Absolute Beingness, yet without anything moving. [Unint.] time, as means of this motion, movement. What’s the Mind? When was the Mind created? In space. This Mind energy is not manifested, unless there are some means to manifest this energy, this Mind. It’s a not only gross matter that is giving us this vibrations we call energy. What does the cosmic rays? They get and detect now the orthodox science. They get vibrations from even places in space, but they can not see any material, as they say, celestial body. They find sources of this kind of radiation. And again, what say that [unint.] is not energy?
Now, can we define what is energy? We say “Mind”. And so it is. But we find in Mind all sorts of vibrations, all kinds of energy. When you are asking ‘what kind of energy you mean?’ The energy we can use as etheric vitality, because that is what is needed for a psychotherapist. Some put it in the body of a suffering person for being cured. We mean that? How we get it? By breathing and by dissolving those vibrations of energy to such vibrations to suit our needs. What’s status?
35’00”
What’s metabolism? Metabolism is not energy. The energy of the etheric vitality or the Mind, can be found everywhere in various known or unknown rates of vibrations, or yet unknown. So now you got this vitality, this energy, we can use for the body of a sufferer to become well. But how can we define it? Electricity? Magnetism? Yes, it is something similar to that yet it is not electricity and it is not only magnetism. Something more. Now when somebody is suffering, don’t we apply even electric current [unint.]. But do we need that? Or can we get that etheric vitality ourselves. We certainly can have it by breathing. So this energy is everywhere. As Mind is everywhere.
What we are doing by breathing? Now, science says that air is composed of oxygen and other elements. We are breathing, what takes place in the lungs? When the tired blood cells… tired, lacking enough energy, come in contact with the oxygen in the air, they are re-energized.
To start working, working how? And for what reason? To go in the blood stream? And give that energy they have taken as creative force, to [certain?] the various organs in the body. We have a doctor here, is there any other reason for that?
So, who’s doing that, it’s in the breathing. The more, is just to be taught the right way of breathing in a better condition so this work will be done in a better way. But apart from that, what can you do as a present day personality, in breathing. How many really know what is taking place in the lungs, within their breathing? Of course Masters know it. Advanced researchers of the truth know it, and they even can cooperate with the Archangels. Do you know that the seat of Michael and Raphael are in the lungs? What is heat in your body and how do you get it? [Mamud?] you have a warm blood. Warmth is energy, needed. As kinesis, of movement, in the blood. Now, is that to detect the work of the Archangel of fire, of Michael, working in us?
Yet you don’t start like to so that you’ll come in conscious, and later self-conscious approach with the Archangel Intelligence responsible for all that. And again, who is the
40’00”
balancer? Of the heat, to certain degrees, no more, no less. Thus to be healthy, you must have this degrees. How many? 36, 37, something like that. And again, when you have fever, where from comes that? Additional heat. Maybe you are in a dark room, a cold room, and you have fever. Where from you get this additional heat in your body, and what for? Who raised the heat in your material body? And what for? This was [lize?], of course the doctors said just to keep the microbes and the germs to restore good health, is it that? Which was that intelligence, in your material body, to raise up the heat, so that you have the phenomenon of fever? Until order has been restored in the body. All these things should not escape the attention of the Researcher after the Truth. Now there is something else.
Is it right, by other means, I mean medicines, to lower down that fever? Oh, its better to leave it.
Now, man as an intelligent being must have observed that higher than certain rate they have bursting of blood vessels in the brain. So it’s better just to lower it down, because we have this phenomenon of bleeding in the brain is up. Now we’ll come again to karma and all that, yes, but, the Infinite Beingness made fit to use the Mind to see things.
Now, you say energy. Definitely there is energy in our bodies, not only now seeing the etheric doubles, and from the etheric double energy is brought to the material body. And again I say that there is supervisors controlling, which is not our present day personality. Is our Holy brothers the Archangels, the Lords of the Elements. More cannot revealed how you come in self-conscious touch with them. But you can. Subconsciously you would, and you should. How? Through your sub-consciousness. By exercising, a kind of will-power in the form [iver?] of prayer, that’s suggesting. Suggesting yourself, is not energy? Not again power? Now what kind now of power we shall study and see? See we see power in different ways. Just in the life of our material body.
Now, we must take it for granted that this energy is etheric vitality. We have it, we get it. And when the body is exhausted, because this energy can be used, and of course, burned up but still you have the energy coming down all the time, as long as we are living, [which is?] everywhere.
Now, what we observe that by moving, feeling, thinking, we exhaust part of this energy. Is this energy necessary
45’00”
for all that? For everything that needs energy. A thought needs energy. A feeling [whafeeling?] needs energy. Moving our body, needs energy. So, we see that energy partly exhausting in the material body and we have just to get the right amount of this energy. Again I came ‘who is controlling the right amount?’ Not more, not less. Less, we see illness, weakness, feel tired. More, this again, dangerous but happily, the Lords of the Elements can control it.
How to we use this energy consciously now? Ah this [very?] good question you have put. By using what you call the imprinting ether in visualization. Now I’ll give you an exercise. Start breathing in the [red?] way I have taught you, 4 beats of the heart inhaling and 4 ….
[tape side ends]
Now I repeat, say that you are lying on your bed, or sitting comfortably in your chair, breathing the right way. 4 beats of the heart inhaling and 4 beats of the heart exhaling. Or six beats of your heart inhaling and 6 beats of your heart exhaling, filling the lower part of the lungs and then the upper part, and then empty the lower part, then the upper.
And maybe you can after a bit, sit or lying, you may think of so many many things torturing you in busy-ness just obeying certain, we call emotions. Being angry, or something like that, yeah, exhausting the etheric vitality. But. You get this vitality, but how you restore it? And use it, and be in conscious touch with the source of this vitality?
We said by using the imprinting ether. That means, visualization. So, what you do? In in-breathing, what takes place in the lungs? That’s not what we are [busying?] it’s in the Holy Archangels. Holy Archangels are doing it. Loading the tired blood cells with energy, which is not the air. It isn’t even oxygen. It is the etheric vitality the Hindus are calling ‘prana’.
So, the work is done there. In breathing, and exhaling. I said ‘never leave the lungs empty’. It isn’t good.
So. Now with the etheric vitality. Storing it. Where? By visualization, using the imprinting ether, see it as light in the body. And feel it. Inhale, feeling this energy. Vitality, filling your feet. Until the toes. Feel them.
50’00”
Breathe, and feel the energy filling the lower part of your body. And now, in exhaling, see that it stays there. It’s the air coming out only, not the energy. You have the energy. You have it in the blood cells. And then you have it in the etheric double of your body.
You get much more quantity than the quantity a usual man is taking by
visualization. See every part of the material body full of this light energy. Sit quiet like. Not only seeing it, feeling it, until, in five minutes, I will tell ‘enough’. You feel the whole body of yours full of this strength, energy. Now I give another name. I’m feeling strong.
You can feel you muscles - strong. Maybe you lie on your bed. Dead tired, exhausted. I tell you that in 5 minutes, you are strong enough to start again. In this way of visualization, and consciously and self-consciously storing this energy in your body.
Then again then, I’ll get up and start work, doing this and that and I start telling you now, studying it, definitely you know.
And if you are a psychical healer you know the way by visualization and feeling it pass it to somebody else. Of course you are giving this etheric vitality and if you are not in a position to restore it, you’ll feel it [susta?]. If you believe you are exhausted, you’ll be exhausted, because you close down the source of energy which is everywhere and within you. So, when you start doing it, breathing with what I call visualization, and in parallel now I use another word of autosuggestion synergy. Coming from the Mind plane, see that you are in contact with the source of energy which is inside you and everywhere.
And convince yourself, tell yourself, through your subconsciousness, that no matter how much energy I will give to the others, I will [from?] the time overfull with this energy. So it’s a matter of knowing how to do it.
Well. Now, I give an example. Yesterday, I am 77 years old. With an, of course people say, arteriosclerotic brains, material brains, but I am not in need so much on my material brains. I got yesterday, early in the morning at 5:30, 6:00 I was on my feet, doing work. I saw people. I have done much work, until 10:30. We started lessons here. Yet filling you all up with etheric vitality, and you feel it. Most of you, you feel it. Till I finish the lesson. My daughter was [up to ten?] worrying. She was not right. She wanted me
55’00”
to lie down, at least for an hour or two hours. It was less than an hour, there, and I started working. The second lesson, in Greek. Then, seeing
again people. The third lesson, to one of the independent circles, from 7:00 to 9:00. Of course anybody else would be terribly exhausted.
I was invited last night to a fellow, his name was Antony and [yo hard just lee?] saint Antony game. [unint.] Send over by the parents. I promised just to visit. I went there for half and hour only. I was not exhausted. Not only giving to you all, giving to the Greeks, giving to the independent circle, feeling that they were satisfied, having meet [me add?]. Why they feel like that you think? Because I fill them with etheric vitality.
Now suppose we say a man is getting 100 units a day. How many units I needed yesterday to the time I went in bed? Just from 5:30 to 10:30 in the evening. In my age, the doctors says that being tired, there is a danger of blood [recesses?] in the [tintoplay?] it’s in this. Raising up the heat, or something like that. Who is balancing this temperature? So that I’ll not have such an accident?
In the Greek lessons sometimes, I have 3 or 4 doctors here. You are this morning coming in, and after giving the lesson he’s touching my forehead to see that I am hot. He said, ‘but you are not, you are cold’. I said, “There are those that take care of that, don’t worry.”
So, what’s now energy? And what kind of energy, we are using all day long to live, and to work, and to think? Is that the energy you have caught, what he called it?
Uh, Reiki power.
Is that? You can get it, if you want to get it. Now, since we meet, we just mentioned these words and this energy. I think before completing the question. I said that this energy, with the kind of life we are living, we are burning it up. All. Then leaving it go. How? You should be careful, in how we are living.
So, a man hating another fellow. A man having complaints even against another fellow. Relative, or not. All the time, is spending this energy, whether he thinks about it for that time, or he forgets about it yet having in him or in her, that feeling. This kind of feeling is constantly burning down his etheric vitality.
So, be careful. It’s burning it up very very quickly. You see somebody, only, out of temper, shouting - you need energy to shout - you are exhausting energy. And when people get up and slug somebody, how much energy you need to do that?
60’00”
So, in a burst of anger, we exhaust nearly most of the amount we get by breathing, by food and by other ways. When one is, under anger just like that, after that he’s feeling completely exhausted. Why? Because he has burned up this energy. Now, how you burn this energy again? By talking. Do you think if was not in constant touch with the source of energy I could speak for so many hours in doing the lesson? Do you think so? By talking, thinking and speaking you are burning energy.
So, one should definitely be in a condition to be constantly in touch with the source of energy, again I repeat which is inside you and everywhere around you. So you don’t need to go some how to get this energy and come. The time you are giving it, receive as much. Or, other put another way. The time you are giving it, the Holy Spirit is giving you as much. With his blessing.
Now, we’ll come to another point. How this energy can be used? Again we come to the science, as they know. Matter is energy and energy is matter. Don’t they say so? You can transfer matter into energy, and energy, to matter. That means materialization and dematerialization. The second, this energy you have mentioned.
Suppose you have somebody. Not you to cure him, the Holy Spirit. You will be the agent. So you have a fellow with a serious illness. Provided it is permitted by the law of cause and effect, or karma as you call it, can you materialize this energy and make a shortened leg, longer, and healthier? Have you seen that? How much energy is required for this materialization? Great energy. Great etheric vitality. And it’s not only the energy. You will give, required, but you have to think how to do it. Visualization is very important in energy. So feeling it, yet using it yourself, with the visualization, to make the thing.
When you see reach that point, you will see how much energy is required. Can you measure it with amount? Great amount of energy. Yet, you
have it, and you come to conclusion, what you give is not yours. It’s the Absolute Beingness, we call the spirit. You get, and give, and yet you are overfull. Many times it happened, to see 80 people a day, and when they say to people, more than 70 have been cured completely, but what. Legs, they telling that it happened one day to do it on seven persons. Well, sometimes I’m sitting in the evening and say ‘think of…
65’00”
who am I? Who was that by? How is it possible that we use in this way, to see things beyond even my broadest imagination.
So, you must know what’s the energy. You may know what is the etheric vitality. You must learn how to use your etheric double of the material body. And then, once your hands become strong, start working. I’ll put it another way, it’s not with your hands, but with the Mind. Strengthen the mind, and start working. And don’t care, about the amount of energy, because if the energy is the ocean, you are little fish, swimming in that ocean. There are not any matter of being deprived of this energy once you use it the right way. But if you don’t use it the right way, they close the source of energy to you. I’ve never seen any fellow who is hating, fighting, quarreling, being able to fill up himself with energy.
Did I answer your question? And I taught you the way how to get this energy. No need to need much about it’s nature. It is, and you use it. Just to drink a glass of water and serve your body and your health doesn’t need to know the composition of the water. Let the others [do it aged?] to what they say like that. Not need to know that. How it is, of course, I know, but for those are use it it is not necessary to know it, just to use it. What it is is to know how to get it. And how to use it. Yes.
And again, maybe the [room?] there will be a mistake. Is this life? There are many Hindus that make the mistake that this vitality is the life. No! It’s the Mind. Mind is living. You are using it. But YOU are the life. Sir, give us some life. What does it mean ‘give us some life’? I heard two Hindus say that. How should I give, much part of my life? This is a mistake. Etheric vitality, or energy, or Mind, call it whatever you want, is yes, vitality, but it is not life. You are life as an ego. You are ascending or never exhausted or becoming weaker. As a present day personality, yes. As a body, yes. But not you as an ego. Yes?
What is the danger of practicing Kundalini yoga for a man in the west?
Kundalini yoga?
yes.
What’s Kundalini? It’s a word used very much by the Hindus. Kundalini, yes. In the base of the spine. A man, who can see clairvoyant can see coiled, in seven rounds, and moving very very very speedily, a kind of fire. They call “serpent fire”. I have never seen any serpent there, no sight. [thats-urip?]. Yes.
The serpent fire has its radiation. It’s as if you see, in seven coils, a ribbon - it doesn’t have any head of a snake - just,
70’00”
Let me, thicker, just as a ribbon with a knot. It’s there rotating. Then when a child is born, from that ribbon, in the same way, uncoils itself, in the same way, a kind of radiation going through the spine, to the head. That makes the hair grow on the head, in the child. Immediately this radiation creates, on the etheric double, of the body, the vitality centers. The genitals, in the solar plexus, going side wards, the other way, the other way, vivifying the spleen, and the liver, going up, vivifying the heart, then spreading sidewards, sometime here, sometime there, the lungs, coming to the thyroid, and going up. Now what we see, in a child, these radiations, not the Kundalini itself, the radiations of the Kundalini has the same way you see the rainbow sometimes and they see a light in the rainbow above it some distance, this is, this kind of radiation.
It doesn’t make us be active, the genitals. But it makes active the solar plexus. It doesn’t make active, very much, the spleen and the liver, but it makes active the heart. Doesn’t make very active the thyroid, but makes active a center just, responsible for seeing, strengthening the eyes. It doesn’t make up the lobes on the brain, because you can see the child thinking, [visualamp?].
At a certain age, more of this light goes up, vivifying the genitals, then you see a man or a woman hair grow there. Just like [gendelas?]. Then you
see in a man, hair grow under his arms. And later, some on is chest and something like that.
So, we see the radiations of this Kundalini, as if a circle, more like Kundalini, unrolls itself and goes up, always through the spine actively. All illnesses are treated by the sacred fire - not serpent fire - by Michael and Raphael, through the marvel of the spinal cord - the spinal cord. Nowadays starting injecting something just for the better health of the body [spiritually hear me?] and something like that. Now, the orthodox science slow slowly we’ll discover more and more and more about that.
Now, when a man starts tantra yoga, mantra yoga, and various other things believing his auto-suggestion, and you have said about the power of autosuggestion, even in the wrong way, subconsciousness is not reasoning, it just orders. It’s what you believe, makes more active certain centers. Usually it makes active the genitals. Because man is making very bad use of this source in the genitals. Abusing his creativeness. Then from time to time
75’00”
more vitality may go to the solar plexus. If more vitality goes in the heart, you have heart troubles. So it’s better never to meditate and center on the heart. Well, those of the inner circle, who are centers, are practicing this. They shouldn’t concentrate on the genitals. Man or woman. And with caution, in the solar plexus. Never concentrate in the heart. Feel the heart, but don’t concentrate in the heart because usually people concentrate with what we call tension, that’s not good.
But they may concentrate in the lungs, breathing consciously, and filling the vitality there. No danger. They may concentrate on the thyroid, but not with tension in the brain. They may cause bleeding. And always, one who practices, should relax completely the material body, then fix the attention with what we call observation, without tension. We gain much more, than with tension, because tension is burning your vitality.
So, tension is not needed. Concentration with full relaxation of the etheric double in the body. Then we have the more serious relaxation we should be careful. Relax the emotional body. And relax the mind. If you lay down and start practicing this and then you are vibrating strongly with
strong emotions, passions, weaknesses, and all that, that’s a super-tension. You’ll not be able to achieve anything, and you will feel exhausted.
Thought now. How we would use the etheric double as imprinting ether, [begots?] of the Mind directly in contact with the higher use of the Mind? It gets directly from the super-consciousness of the mind, to make living for all elementals. Which is the enemy of every researcher after the truth or one who is trying this kinds of work. Which is the deadly enemy. Tension. So you must be careful to avoid tension by complete relaxation.
Now, relaxation in the material body, relaxation in emotions, passions and all that, you must silence them completely down, and the relaxation in the mind. Which means think quietly and not with tension. You are not to use the mind, or the psychical body, the emotions, violently. This is what all the people around us are doing. They think that by tension, they can achieve something now. What they achieve is to burn down their etheric vitality in the etheric double of the material body, in the etheric double of the psychical body, and in the mind. Such wasting the super-substance. Now why are we allowed by the Holy Spirit to do all this wasting? I am wondering. Because believe me the human beings are making very very bad use
80’00”
of the Divine gifts - the mind. Every psychical healer must know that he is dealing with Holy super substance, and Holy substance. But even matter, the material world, the material body is Holy. They should not made bad use of it. So have that in mind.
Yes?
Does the right use of sex mean that people have to do it strictly and only for procreation and nothing more?
Now. What is sex? What are the gential organs of a man or a woman? Holy. Maybe the most precious gift given by the Infinite Beingness to a man are his genital organs. And even to a woman. The same. They are Divine gifts, the seat of the Holy Spirit. They are Holy Spiritual. With those organs, male and female, two people, belonging to the different
sexes, become co-creators with God. Can you realize that, creating what, circumstances for a Soul-Ego and a Spirit-Ego to be incarnated and be humanized. So sex is a Holy thing. In reality. It should be so. Now, a man and a woman now, apart from their role as being co-creators with God, they live together - supposed to live together. Of course, they marry, they are getting married. Together. What does it mean in getting married. Uniting their hearts, and one living for the other. And if you are feels the other, as himself, then their union is Holy. Not as an action of satisfying passions. Or sensuality. But as Love. Love has been greatly misunderstood. And people think that love is sex. Love is something very very different, yet sex in the right way, expresses love.
Now suppose a man and a woman, they are married, and they have one or two children. By the grace of God. The one becomes incapacitated. Especially the man who maybe become incapacitated, it will not be able, just to make love with his wife. If the wife goes away, what is love? And unfortunately even the church now finds it a reason to give divorces. Nothing more stupid. Because if you are this incapacitated, love is not the sexual intercourse. This is, at least my opinion. Now, the question is, should a man and a woman, married, being husband and wife, do sex, apart from the purpose of having children?
85’00”
If they love each other, and this is a need, one feel the other, is his own self, this an act of love, yes. The one, for the sake of the other, because nature has it’s needs. Now, from this point of view, the medical science know better. What is what. You should not be fanatic, as stupid, to go against the nature. The [subgencis?] of people are not feeling and thinking in the same way. And each fellow, has his and her needs. So, we must just be lenient in that. Not criticizing it. But now nature has to say something.
When two people, man and a women are overdoing it, Nature interferes. You feel weak, and ill, and so many things are coming. I had just this talk with a doctor, before some times, yes, you are not right, if they are overdoing it even being a husband and a wife, they feel exhausted and so many things are coming but if they don’t do it at all, maybe one of them will become schizophrenic or some like… maybe I mean not over doing it, I mean that also.
So, a man or a woman should use reason. And they’ll know, what, how and when, so that they’ll not be exhausted, and damage their material bodies, because their material bodies are Holy. Is the temple of God, of their Inner Self.
So, I think people must use reason, never over doing anything. Now, about sex. I have something to say more now. Can there be love between two men? Or between two women? Yes, of course. Love your neighbor as you love yourself. It doesn’t mean that only a man, or a woman, is to be your neighbor, or something like that, [sumai?] your neighbor. Your fellow being, yes, there can be love, great love, between two male persons. And also between two female persons. But I said before ‘love is not sex’. Definitely.
I had the question in the Greek circles sometime, about homosexuality. Is homosexuality reasonable? Said, “No!”. It’s a crime, it’s a curse. Love has nothing to do with homosexuality. Because the male organ, is just like the [cellist?], to bring the Holy Spirit, and make a man a co-creator with his God. In homosexuality, what is the result? Just putting the sacred, the [sacramides?], the semen, with the stools. I consider it a curse. And I insist in that. And I say it, yes, to a male person must
90”00”
love each other, but why make such use? They must use reason. I myself am much against this thing which is not natural. And I insist that love is not sex, maybe you’re right, sex in a couple can express love. But love is not sex. A nice fire is lovely to make us warm, but if you have bad quality of wood, you have cracks and smoke, which will blind your eyes. That is not a desirable fire we want. Fire is sacred.
We said, “Why God gave us reason?” To think, and to use the Mind to reason. Did I satisfy you?
Yes?
Are their practical exercises to learn the phenomena of exosomatosis?
Of course there are. Definitely there are. But what’s exosomatosis?
Every night you make exosomatosis, and by the grace and mercy of God, you don’t even remember much. Why you don’t?
[end of tape]