1990.06.12 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00'00 [Opening Prayer]
Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven, give us this day, our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not intto temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever.
God, life, love, and mercy, manifested as Total Wisdom and Almightiness, enlighten our minds to understand your truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen.
01'08"
The lesson today is most important for every researcher after the truth. And for those who are running the so-called psycho-therapestic centers. We laid down the basic principles which do not allow any changes. What
we know and believe, that life for God is, and to call life the absolute beingness, in it's multiplicity, with beings, all the Archangelic orders, and also the Human race.
So we know that Life is eternal, everlasting, yet, the divine will which is one of the natures and characteristics of Infinite beingness, is to express itself in itself. Express itself in itself. And expresses itself, being God, as total wisdom and almightiness, nothing escaping its power of controlling the universes. Everything.
And any, who is studying the truth, no matter in which science that fellow belongs, cannot deny the almightiness of this total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness. This is for sure. No one studying the truth cannot agree to that. All the universes are governed by the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness and its almightiness.
We said, the total wisdom of Infinite Beingness and its almightiness, can be studied in the manifestations of the Absolute Beingness in all the universes. The material universe, the planet, the solar system, all solar systems, galaxies, and everything material can be studied in what we call the psychical universes. And then the noetical universes. By concentration, meditation, observation, contemplation and realization. To the point of self-realization. So, we know what is.
05'00"
Eternally, ever lastingly, we call God, which is life. Everlasting life. Manifesting itself in itself as phenomena of life now. As phenomena of life, life is and exists. Is life in the phenomena of life, and exists in the phenomena of life, in the world of separateness, as separate living form. You have billions and billions and billions of phenomena of life around us even in the material plane. All around us.
And studying all the phenomena of life, all the living forms, we reach just this idea: Nothing as a phenomena of life is escaping the law which is the circle of possibilities. Of that phenomena of life, never escaping from this circle of possibilities and the circles of probabilities. These circles of possibilities and probabilities can be studied by everyone wishing need to know the truth of the manifestations of life, so have life in itself, which is it Absolute Beingness and you have the manifestations of life in the Absolute
Beingness which we can study.
06'58"
And that is to say that, studying all manifestations of life all around us in all living forms, studying what I call circles of possibility, of each kind of these manifestations of life, and the circles of probabilities, we understand the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness, Life. God. Life and God are synonymous.
Don't try to find an imaginary God or entity beyond Life. God is Life. Of course, it’s a great difference between Life and the phenomena of life. As we said we have in the material world billions beyond number phenomena of life, living forms. Now we see different characteristics in the world of existence. Now we have the world of being and the world of existence. The world of beingness, everlasting world, life everlasting, there is no change. But in the world of existences in the world of beingness, it is not a separate place, we find the phenomena of life. With all kinds of degrees of development.
Those phenomena of life, yet ruled all of them, all those phenomena of life by what I called the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness which is the circle of their possibilities, from which no phenomena of life can escape and enter in another circle of existence. You have the law of Beingness and the manifestation, the law of existence. What exists has a beginning and an end, as a phenomenon. As we said, we said phenomenon of life we call human being is and exists. Is life. And exists as a living entity, a living creature. Life, it's life. How do we know it is life beyond the conception of the personality, [a creation] in time and space?
10'00"
Because life, even in the material body, obeying the circle of existence, of the human race of the Divine Man that means the idea of man, is total wisdom. Studying life, in a human body, only the material body, did I tell you [counts as?] the life, in the so-called psychical body, and in the noetical body, you'll amaze in which way even the material body is living. So it is life, life expressing the total wisdom of God and its almightiness.
Now, in the world of existence, regarding a human being. A human being
is god, and exists as a human being. As god, there is no change, each one of you, is a spirit ego, with an i-ness eternal, expressing a kind of self-consciousness, self-consciousness in the various stages of expression, is that self-consciousness. And you exist as a human being, as a time-and-space place self-consciousness of a man or a woman. A name, a form, yet a kind of self-consciousness idea. So, studying each one of you, yourself, as a self-conscious being, with all your possibilities and probabilities and abilities, you reach the truth, regarding yourself as a phenomenon of life, and later entering in life itself, which is your real self, yourself as a soul self-consciousness and as a spirit self-super consciousness.
So we find consciousness and self consciousness again in various degrees of expression, the relative world, the material world, the psychical world, and the noetical world. And what even beyond that? Which, it's not a present day personality will know and study. But after it's assimilation with your real self as a soul-self-consciousness then you will know the other worlds, [beyond] the fifth dimension.
We spoke about the dimensions. The characteristics of the various worlds of existence, of the manifestation, not the worlds of the beingness. These worlds of the beingness are everywhere. The worlds of existences are in the worlds of the beingness. But, they occupy certain lengths, space, but the world of beingness is space-less. This is what everyone can know and understand. In deep meditation, concentration, observation, reaching the stage I call ecstasies. Something beyond contemplation. Anyone is allowed to do it. Everyone is able to do it. But is everyone willing to do it?
Already enchanted by the influence of the material plan, and living as a human being in time and space, this is the difference. So, we spoke about the manifestation
15'00"
of the Absolute Beingness, in itself. In the manifestation which is the universe as created, created, by whom? By what? So, studying this we see what we call the mind. When I say the mind, I don't mean the two lobes of a handful of matter in the skull, I mean the brains.
So, when I say the mind, which is holy, but not God, the mind is not the
Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit is the manifestation, with its almightiness of the Absolute Beingness. The mind, I see it now, and every one of you will use it, as what I call super-substance. And it is formless. Yet, being formless the mind as super-substance, it has in itself which is everywhere, the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness, which means, the ideas the expression of which are all kinds of forms and living forms. You call it total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness.
When man will reach that stage, beyond the manifestation of mind as thoughts, and noetical idols, or elementals, he can see the reality now. So, I have said that now, what every researcher after the truth knows, at all times, in all religions, and which Christ spoke about openly, maybe the past, people were keeping all the secrets, even punishing with death those who revealed them to the public, to the others, even, in many many countries, in Egypt, in India, in Greece, but when Christ came, he revealed the truth openly to all human beings, this is what the mission of the most beloved Joshua, Jesus Christ. The Great Master.
Saint John, the evangelist, is putting the truth in the first sentences of his gospel, regarding the Logos, the Logos is the manifestation of the Absolute Beingness. Logos in the Greek language means "expression". And it says that The Logos is the light which lighteth every human being coming to the world. What is that light? Lighting every human being coming to the world. The self-consciousness.
The animals all around us, billions of living forms as animals around us, do not have this self-consciousness. So every human being has an expression of God, which is the self-consciousness. Man or woman, living in a material body, develops a kind of self-consciousness body, a time and place-space self-consciousness. The self-consciousness of Mary, the self-consciousness of Joan, the self-consciousness of Alex. They are the first stages of the self-consciousness. It is the Divine, in the human.
So, now, each one of us, is a human being now, and the Infinite Beingness, God, as spirit, self super-consciousness. But the attention now, is the material plane. In a material body, in it's etheric double, in the so-called psychical body, again in it's etheric double, and in a noetical body, and in it's etheric double.
This time, you are living in three bodies, in one. You cannot be awakened
in the material body, unless in that body is the so-called psychical body and the noetical body. And how we can detect that? Because living, now, as a present day personality, man or a woman, apart from their material body who has a kind of instinctive, sub-consciousness of itself, you are a so-called conscious being.
And, what corresponds to your so called psychical body?
21'30"
Your emotions. The way you express yourself, the way you are living. And what corresponds to what we call the noetical body? Your thoughts and your ability to visualize. So, the entity human being as a present day personality of a man or a woman, is living in the material body, supervised most wisely by the total and absolute wisdom of God, but each one of you is a separate entity, a different person, and as a personality, all of you, are on the various stages of development.
You can express a sub-consciousness, you can express an instinctive consciousness which is common to all other animal life around you, you can express even what I would call sensitivity, which is in the plants all around you. So there is nothing in the universes which is not in your human being now, as a body, as a present day personality, and as a soul. So as the Infinite Beingness, one in three kinds of manifestation and expression, so is every human being. What is the Absolute Beingness is your self spirit super consciousness, having the nature, the characteristics of the Infinite Beingness. What corresponds to the Logos, the manifestation of the Infinite Beingness in itself? It's your self as the soul self super consciousness, expressing itself in time and space. What is corresponding to the universes, the material universes, is your human body. The psychical universes is your emotional body. And the noetical universes is your mind body.
Now as a theory, this is good. Living in three bodies, is the teaching even of Buddha, of Tao, of [con vu che = Confucious?] all in the old Egyptian religions about Aton. And Christianity. Saint Paul, in his letters mentioned these three bodies. 'Cause he knew them. Not only he knew them, he was using them. Describing them. So what we are teaching, nobody can call us heretics. It's in our bible.
You can move freely, in the field of the truth, having the gospel, the bible, in your hand, nobody can say you are a heretic, or you are teaching different things from the real religion. And I tell you, the truth is taught by many. It was taught in the past centuries. You can find it in all religions. The truth is not the monopoly of Christianity. Have that in your mind. Yet we have the truth.
26'00"
You have the whole truth. But this should not make us egoistic thinking that we Christians are having the truth. Every one of you is free to study anything you like, because the first virtue is freedom, of thought and expression. And those belonging to the circles for the research of truth are not prohibiting their members to seek the truth everywhere they can find it.
And again I say, the truth is not the monopoly of any religion. Or the Christian religion. So must hold this in mind, because all those belonging to a certain religion, no matter which religion, are human beings. And they are Christians. Without knowing it. Since Christ is the light which lighteth every human being coming to the world, they are Christian. WIthout knowing it. They cannot deny that they are expressing a self-consciousness, no matter in which stages of expression, because for us, Christians, no matter in which of the denominations you belong, Protestants, Roman Catholic, Greek Orthodox, Maronite, Armenian, these differences are human narrow-mindedness. And not the truth regarding Christianity.
Because Christianity is nothing but Love. Christianity is based only on two commandments. Love God, and your neighbor as yourself. That's all. This is Christianity. Love.
So, for us, Christ, the fullest expression in a human person, of the Logos, Jesus Christ, will not remain for us only an imaginary, [persecute], who was crucified in less than 33 years of life, but entity living in that personality, who said before mountains and dirt and everything existed "I am". Feeling that he is in the eternal now. That's why he was expressing Infinite Beingness. And anyone can do that, because everyone is god. As spirit ego self super consciousness and thus, a soul super consciousness. But how?
By finding the way in reaching, where? The kingdom of the heavens which is within you. It is not a place, it is a condition, it is a state of things. Is within us, Christ said that.
30'00"
The kingdom of the heavens is within you. Within your being, not your body. Not your emotions, not your thoughts. WIthin you, who you? Your self consciousness. Which you have to develop, develop, develop, disentangle it from the time and place space materially expressions, to reach what I call, self-realization.
Call it spiritual upliftment, give it any name you like, for me, means, 'self realization', knowing yourself. Knowing yourself now. Which self? It is, for the time being, being a human being living in a material body, I have a self-consciousness. Of a man or a woman, expressing, emotions, weaknesses, thoughts. I am a self conscious being. Yes, even that, within you you have the qualities of your inner self to consider yourself a self-conscious being. Now, this self-conscious being can find it's way towards itself.
How? By the right way of meditation. By the exercises leading to mastery of the emotions and thoughts. And in time disentangling yourself from your shadow which is the egoism of the present day personality. It is by freeing your present day personality from the illusions, and assimilating itself, to your real self. And thus Christ said, "The perishable become imperishable, and the mortal become immortal,"
There is nothing in your studies which you cannot find it in the gospel, in the New Testament. Though, in the course of years, many things were taken out. And you understand that because there are no connections, sometimes, yet, there are enough there to guide you to the truth. [there is more than enough?]
So, As I am giving you advice to most of the members of the circles for the research of the truth, the New Testament, don't necessarily end the old testament, the old testament may give informations. But the New Testament should be your best friend. And you can find there, the whole truth. Now, it that enough? Just reading the New Testament? And blindly believing everything written there? Nothing more stupid. Believe
me. Reading the New Testament, you must investigate what rights there are that it is the truth. And only knowing the truth will you be liberated from the illusions.
So, the New Testament for you must be a guide. Leading you to the truth. What counts as the truth? Not what is written there, concerning the truth. So, the New Testament is not something to worship, but the truth in it, which is the Absolute Beingness. Now, how do we reach that stage? Of knowing the truth in the beginning? The relative truth of course, because the absolute truth cannot be approached even, in the worlds of matter, of emotion and of thought, but the truth is beyond that.
We are in the worlds of the phenomena, and those phenomena are giving illusions in time and space.
35'03"
We must study it, these 'illusions', to pierce through the illusion to the reality which {is} behind the illusion. I'm telling you there is no illusion which has not the truth behind it. Even the illusion is the manifestation of the truth. Because there can never be any shadow, unless there is the light behind it. So we should not rest, studying the shadow, but say, studying the shadow, [conchlee?] shadow, the expression of the light.
So, in every illusion, you will meditate upon, in your meditations the material plane, you should pierce through the illusion to see the light behind it. To see the truth behind it. The relative truth. As long as you are living in the material world, in the psychical world, or the noetical world.
So, we mentioned now the material body, the material world all around us. We have mentioned now the so-called psychical body, and we are mentioning now the so-called psychical world all around us, again.
We speak now about the noetical, the mind world, we are speaking about our mind-body. Our noetical bodies. Nothing exists in what we call macrocosmic which is not existing in the microcosm, which is you. Each one of us. And this, you will find it out, in deep meditation, observation, and concentration. So, we speak about the material body. Here it is, I touch it, I take it from the one place to the other by walking, moving, you cannot doubt about the existence of your material body. You see the
material bodies of all people around you. So you are sure, that you are possessing, a material body. And your friends around you are living in a material body. If somebody will tell you "look here, no, you don't have any material body, you don't have any hands," you may give him a slap and say "here it is". I have a hand, I have a material body. Here I am. You must be stupid to say that I don't have a material body. I touch it, I move it. And if I tell you, yes, of course, you have an etheric double of the material body, you tell me "what is it? How should I know I have, a so-called, etheric double?"
Did you guess, I'll teach you the way. How to know it and use it. You have a psychical body. How is it? What's the nature of it? You express it as emotions, as weaknesses, as desires. This and that. Though you use it sub-consciously, you don't know anything about it's existence and it's nature. And I tell you of course you have also, a mind-body. A noetical body. What is it? But this is more difficult to investigate because most people are not using it at all. They are waiting for the others to [change over] and they, like monkeys, imitate.
This why, today the human race is in such a lamentable position. But researchers after the truth will come and say yes, you say you have a material body and here it is, I know, I move it about, I use it in so many ways, even making very bad use of it. And every man or woman should learn the nature of their material bodies, not make, but use of it, obeying emotions and weaknesses, this they will do it, when they start knowing the bodies. But you said the etheric double, what is the etheric double?
40'02"
Now we come to the most important part of the lesson today. Everyone who is not sure of something and believing it blindly is a stupid. For me. But it will be a stupid also to deny something before investigating to see if it is or it isn't. Thus dropping doubt without examining if something. We are speaking about your etheric double. We can prove it's existence.
We have called it by it's nature, creative ether. You cannot deny it's existence because you cannot explain how your material body is kept in good order and in good health, how a wound on your neck or your arm, is healed, cured, is closing down. You have to believe it. That there is a creativeness in the material body. Also, with other function of the material
body you can detect the creativeness you call it creative ether.
Is it approachable? Not by all at first. Now we shall study another nature of this etheric double. We call it kinetic ether. Kinetic ether, it means "giving the movement". The vibrations. Nobody can deny it, because I tell you to stand up and walk, I'm putting the question "How do you go now?"
You are using what you call the kinetic ether, through your material body walking. You have to learn how to use it. Then I tell you that one of the natures of the etheric double again is what you call esthetic ether, from the Greek word "Esthesis" feeling. But you are not in a material body more than feeling that you are living in a material body.
You are using it subconsciously. You feel you are living. You feel the material body. If I pinch you, Ouu. You feel pain. Ouu. I feel it. If I pierce your body with a pin, you will feel the pain. It is through what we call the ’esthetic ether'.
So, you use the kinetic ether, the esthetic ether, subconsciously, and you are using now what I call imprinting ether, again subconsciously, for another channel, of the desires and the emotions. And the feeling that you like having something that came to your notice, through the sight, through seeing.
So, everybody is using even the imprinting ether. Without using it consciously. I got the other day a fellow, he came and told me "Sir, I would like to have a car, a very nice car. Yes?" He saw a car, so many many other cars, and he liked the BMW better than the Ford or the Fiat or something like that, so by seeing something, you are using subconsciously the imprinting ether. It gives you the knowledge of the existence of something.
And then, using your psychical body, the emotional body, you have the feeling, I would like to have one, myself. [the hous-ela-hower"?] Myself. I told him, “Now look here. Describe me this cars you liking, you like to have.” He made me a full description of all kinds of cars, and what is the privilege of [owning the one car which he didn't have it]. So, with the desire and the wish of having something, he was using the imprinting ether in making the image of that thing he wanted in him.
45'04"
What is your subconsciousness you think? Is it not the sum total of your impressions, your likings and dislikings and your thoughts? So, this, what I call etheric double, you are using it subconsciously. Now you have to use it consciously. To know what it is, to know everything about it. Now, the emotional body. Everyone has emotions, wishes, desires, [sway] expressing his emotions or her emotions, using again subconsciously, what we call, the psychical body. The mind body. Of course we have to think, how it will be possible for you to own something you like having. And everyone can use thought according to his wishes, emotions or desires.
But nobody says "what is thought after? What am doing by thinking? By visualizing something I want to have, from where do I get this force of thinking?" So, a researcher after the truth will start serious work regarding knowing and mastering these things. Knowing and mastering these things.
One of the exercises I gave you yesterday was the introspection. Looking within. And I set you that lesson. The exercise I gave you of introspection or looking within, I taught you, before retiring, at least for ten minutes or fifteen minutes, sit quietly and bring in your mind, how, how, a scene of that very day, you meet somebody in the street or just a discussion the family in the home with the wife or with the children, or in the office or in the market, bring a scene before your mind. Of course you can see the whole scenery. You can see people there. Knowing those people, what do you see? They are elementals.
So, you see that scene, maybe a discussion, a quarrel, bitter words expressed. Saying bitter words yourself and hearing bitter words, a whole scene. After seeing the whole scene, bringing it in your consciousness, from where? In the mean time, after that event, so many other things happen, you forgot all about it.
But now you bring it on the surface of your consciousness. Where from you get all those persons in the scene, the whole scene, and the whole discussion and conversation? From your subconsciousness and now you are in touch with your subconsciousness. Remembering. So, you bring in the surface the whole scene. And now you start judging, one person in
that scene, I see it. It's myself. So I am double now. The fellow sitting in my room and summoning the whole scene, and seeing myself there. Which is that self there, who before some hours behaved in that or in that way, and who are you now to criticize your, or it's behavior? And now you have decided, to see things
50'00"
in a different way. What I said, which I shouldn't say. You are now to decide, what I didn't say which I had to say. What I did, which I shouldn't do. What I didn't do which I had to do it. So under this, now, decisions, you study the whole scene. You are judging yourself. You are studying yourself, no need to judge yourself. Because you are not masochists, I studied the whole event. Now, your egoism will come forward, this is a time, you should be careful, to know that personality of a few hours before, which is still living in your subconsciousness. Why it is still living? It comes a simple no.. yeah.. I said those words. "why did she tell me that?" Should I keep silent, that’s why I replied and of course, your egoism starts reasoning your behavior.
Now you are another person. Studying the event, studying that person, which still living in your subconsciousness, yet, it isn't you. Because, by this introspection in the course of time you will find out that what you thought it was you, it wasn't you. And what it is, you. You find it out now, what you are. You are not your egoism. You are not a time-and-place space entity which is the sum total of your emotions, desires, weaknesses, and thoughts, so you start studying the real situation.
What are emotions? What made me behave in that way? What happened inside me? To make me angry? To make me be aggressive? What made the other fellow aggressive? So now you study your behavior. And then you reach conclusions. Now you find yourself studying the circumstances, and taking decisions now. If this would happen, I behave in an excellent way. With more reason.
Maybe after two days the same event or similar event happens, and you forget yourself. You say that "I forgot myself". That's truth, yet you don't understand what is in this truth. And again you will get angry, excited. With the least provocation, you'll express yourself in the same way. During the evening you will say, no, no. Now, I study a similar case as
before. I got my decision myself not to behave in this way, anymore.
But why, what happened, that really I lost my temper and have behaved against my decisions in that way? That means that something within, from my subconscious, is still living dictating me the way of expressing myself. Not obeying my decision.
Now it is the time to disentangle yourself from your shadow which is not yourself. Yet that shadow is living. Your egoism is an entity living, and trying all your life to dominate over you. And rule.
So by introspection in the course of time, you find your real self. Your Soul Self. The self who must get the mastery. Over what? Over yourself again, as egoism. Yes. Which is not yourself. You make the mistake that it is yourself, because the egoism
55'01"
is changing all the time, as the body's changing, growing, also, your present day personality, or egoism, is changing all the time. But you are not changing. You as a "I-am-I", you are not changing you are Life, all the time the same. But I can know, who is going on the stages of consciousness? And development? Not me, no, your present day personality. Because you are pure as a soul, and wise.
When your present day personality is in attunement with your Ego-Soul, when learning something that you didn't know before, you have the feeling that you already knew it. I had the other day a fellow said ”I had never read all these things Daskale, you are saying, and they were just, [thirst-all?] listening to you," he said, "don't consider me an egoist, when you spoke and said the lesson, I had the feeling I knew everything." It's because you knew everything! I say so. It's not an egoistic expression. You have attuned yourself as present day personality, you want to know, with the knowledge within you, which is, you.
Something else, if you didn't have this ability, you would never be able to know something more, and something more and something more. In reality, you reawaken within yourself the knowledge. You are not learning, something new, as a soul. But your present day personality of a man or a woman, learns easily, you think you are learning easily because you know,
subconsciously, everything about it. So you are reawakening and not learning from the beginning. So you'll find it out, after the introspection of maybe many months. You come to a kind of self-realization.
So, but though I gave you this exercise which is most, most necessary, to find your real self and disentangle your real self from your shadow, yet some come to me and say Daskale, you know it's very very difficult that exercise. Of course it is. You have to practice before other exercises of meditation and visualization to be able to do successfully this introspection work of yours.
How? Now, you'll gather a flower. You go in a room. You hold the flower in your hand. Any kind of flower. You see it, for some minutes. Three of four minutes. Concentration means sticking your attention to it, observation means seeing everything in it, the petals, the color, the shades of color, the thing you are holding in your hand, everything concerning that flower you have in your hand. See it carefully, attentively, turn it this way, that way. Holding it in your hand, it's real, to you. You see it. Say three or four minutes, then close your eyes, and see it again. Try to see it. Observe color, shape, just these other things that you have observed there. It will come and go, come and go. Come and go and you'll find that many other thoughts are flooding you, distracting your attention from this, I say, no,
60'01"
no, this must go away. I have the will of doing this thing, I'll sit again. Sit for a second time. Observing it, and insist, this time, when I close my eyes, I will see it as it is. It's difficult. Not impossible. You have to train yourself in visualization. In mastering the mind. Next day, have another flower. Not necessarily a flower. Have something else. Something you like. See it carefully. Concentrate to it. Three or four minutes again. Put it aside, close your eyes, and see it holding it in your hand. You create an elemental. An etheric hand and you see it there, what is that which you see? An elemental.
We said that every thought, every emotion, everything coming to our attention, creates an elemental. And the elemental is a living thing now. Has it's own life. Once created, you cannot destroy it. It remains in your subconsciousness, it can be dis-energized, yes, not to dominate over you,
but nothing created can be destroyed, because it is made of mind, of the super substance of the mind, and mind is living. So nothing can be destroyed. Energized, or dis-energized, and you learn the way later how to dis-energize undesirable elementals, which are in your subconsciousness.
So, by this exercise, which you have to do every day, for weeks, for months, always, you have to do it, always you have to train yourself, in creating accurate forms, or elementals, and then you find the pleasure that thinking and creating means having. You have the pleasure of having.
When Christ said, "Don't get your riches on earth, where mice and thieves can either steal or destroy but in the kingdom of the heavens within you. Which no thieves can steal, and no mice can destroy."
Because of the creating this elemental you like, you'll find out that thinking and visualizing means having. You have the pleasure of having it. You have riches in your subconsciousness. And what remains to us when we leave our body, is this subconsciousness of ours. So must have that in your mind.
So, this is the daily training, once or twice a day, early in the morning, or before going to sleep, but before going to sleep it is more preferable to do the introspection now. After training yourself with what you call visualization, seeing things, shaping things, creating things, it's much easier for you, the introspection. Which you will find very difficult at the beginning, but after training yourself, that will be easier, closing your eyes will bring the whole scene in front of you. And maybe things you didn't observe during that time, you’ll see them now.
So have this in your mind, you start observing, concentrating and meditating. And this can last for years, and years, this kind of visualization.
Now, when you master that, you will need some years. You have to master circumstances
65'02"
in your life. You start to understand what's life, your life, in a material form,
as a human being. This is what I call imprinting ether. But now we go to the other nature, of the etheric double, the kinetic ether. You are using the kinetic ether subconsciously in moving about, moving your hands, your head, and all that. Now you have to use the kinetic ether in your body. And by doing it, you observe more, what you call esthetic ether, or feeling giving ether, which should accompany the kinetic ether.
I give you certain exercises, feel the toes of your feet. You can feel them, move them, in your shoe. While you are talking, you never had your attention to the toes of your feet, now you have them. That's observation, concentration, you feel them. Your attention is there.
Now I tell you, feel the whole foot, until the knees. So, you move upwards. You feel the feet, and you feel the whole foot from the knees down as you concentrate on your knees now. You can go in your knees, feel them. Because, in your body, on the etheric double, are centers of energy. The centers of energy have got all the feeling ether. So you can concentrate in it. Feel your knees now. You can feel it. Feel your thighs, and the place you are sitting now. You can do it. Feel your feet, from the place you sitting to the toes. Now it's easy for you. That's a kinetic ether. Go down, and up. Down and up, feeling that place. Down and up.
Then you are in kinetic and esthetic ether in your body, or in reality, in your etheric double in your body. So I say, feel your belly. You can feel it. If you know what is there, you are using imprinting ether. I don't say 'feel your belly, feel you are in your belly", you will feel it, and move in your belly. Even move your belly, and I say, "see now, and feel, your solar plexus". You imagine now your solar plexus, you create it with the imprinting ether. If I tell you now, "I want to see the whole belly or the solar plexus around it, a blue light sphere", you can see it, when you get the ability of visualization, which you need.
I say, "Feel now your chest, in your chest, please now you can breathe, and feel breathing." I say, "From the thyroid to the navel, here there is a ball, a sphere, with rosy-white light." You can see it. You can create that elemental.
They say at the same time see your belly full of bluish white light and your chest with rosy-white light, and see your head, around your head, and in your head, golden light. That is imprinting ether. By studying it and
feeling the head, and kinetic ether, moving there, but is that imagination? No, it's creative thought. You create elementals now. Powerful. It's not imagination. You are training yourself to create, or revitalize, elementals which you need for yourself. Imagination is something that is not existing.
70'03"
Something which is existing is not imagination, it is a creative thought. So, how should we know that these things are real? Of course they are real. Real are not only the materialized form, because if you are expert, you can materialize all these things. It is not difficult to materialize it, ‘but that's not the aim, to create elementals and materialize them. Yet these elementals, not seen, are most powerful. In the introspection, looking within, you'll find out that you have many, many elementals torturing you. As fixed ideas in your subconsciousness. There will come to the point of studying your subconsciousness, studying your present day personality, there is no other way of finding out your self, your real self, and free yourself from the time and space-place illusion, which are all the time changing and changing and changing.
So, you don't need to concentrate on the changes, but go forward. So you have to train yourself in working with your etheric double, it's qualities or nature, as imprinting ether, which is visualization, creating elementals, which you will see with your thought, as a kinetic ether, and as esthetic ether, feeling giving ether. What's the gain out of it?
At the beginning when you move inside your body, you find out that it's not really in the body but in the etheric double inside the body. Because, in your belly, there are so many, so many organs, which is not an obstacle in moving around. So you are in the etheric double of the material body. You are moving, in the chest, when you feel you are moving in the chest, it is the heart, the lungs, the glands, so many things, which you don't get notice of it.
When you start moving the circles or the centers of energy, these organs are not an obstacle in your moving, but, in the course of time, you can concentrate through the etheric double to the material body, and see these organs. And see what is taking place there. And become the master of the material body. Of the organs in the material body. Chasing out of your material body pain, make repairs yourself. In this present moment
these repairs in the damage, damages in your body, were done by the Holy Archangels of the Elements and the Holy Spirit. Now you can cooperate with them.
And there is a great joy. Christ says to the Angels, you are [sages? saying this?] in the heaven, the heavens which are within you. For one, who returns back to his real nature, this what Christ meant.
So, you'll come in conscious touch with the Archangels of the Elements working in your body and your psychical body and your noetical body. You are becoming now, conscious of what is going on in your body. And I said in a lesson, that in each human being, in his bodies, all the bodies, is a Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, a Uriel, groups of cherubs, cherubs, in the body, working, to keep in good health and order the material body. The cooperation of the Lord of Fire, Michael, and light, together with the work of Gabriel,
75'00"
the master and the Lord of the Liquids, with the work of Raphael, which is electricity and magnetism and creating your red, hot blood. And your body has a certain heat in it. Who is regulating this heat in your body, you? Not at all. So, if you, by observation and meditation see, because in time you'll come in conscious contact with these brothers of yours working in your material body for you, to live in that material body, because now you are not living by authority but by mercy. Even without thanking them for what they are doing in your bodies.
And in introspection, and in the real meditation, you have to find the place of your present day personality, in the scale of evolution, so that you will free it from the illusions, so that it will be assimilated with your real self. Your Soul-Ego-Self consciousness.
So now, which are the exercises you will make in training yourself in visualization, using what I call the imprinting ether, it's up to you. Any flower, any object, any article, anything can do. That's your choice. What is necessary is to keep constantly doing this exercise. So that you will become the master of visualization. And become the master of using the super-substance of the mind, as a tool in your hands to do things.
Now, if these things are real, what you can do to prove that they are real, I'll give you a living example. Pass an apple here. Keeping canaries, many canaries. One, orange in color and very very dear to buy, escaped. Was before some years. I heard her crying, crying, crying, said, "that canary flew away and it is on your cypress trees which are opposite there". I told her, "keep silent.” She said, “My husband will come home and he will kill me.” I said, “keep silent." That canary flew to one of the Cypress trees there. Told her, keep silent, what I did. I created and visualized a canary, not necessarily of orange color, and I taught it “go and bring that canary to me.” Of course, it flew there, got the canary, then the canary inside, which was her canary I mean, came to my house. That was, now, hurry, put it in the cage and don't shout anymore. What a stupid lady did? A priest was visiting their house, and she told him that this and this and this happened. He said “Yes, of course, he is the devil. He is the antichrist, only the antichrist can do these things." What do I want to say?
Don't show phenomena. When you do something, do it and tell them "keep silent", because other people will just talk and talk and according to their mind, not understanding what it is, will start accusing you. So have in your mind, when by your exercises, you reach in a state of showing phenomena, especially of telekinesis, moving things from far away, don't try to show these things to other people. What for? You should be, first before doing that, free of your egoism of showing yourself. No need others to see what you are doing. So your work is not to make stupid people admire you. What for?
And besides, in visualization, you are using the Holy super substance of the mind. You should respect this super-substance of the mind, entrusted to you. To use it. So, phenomena are not necessary.
Now, of course the psychotherapists, when they can master matter, emotions and thoughts, can do many things. Lengthen feet, curing wounds, straightening spines, which are like a snake. You are allowed to do all that. But, tell the people to keep silent. No need to talk. Talk, what for? So that they will admire you? These psychotherapies are not doing anything themselves, it is the Holy Spirit, the Holy Archangels who are doing the work. So, this you will have in your mind.
Whatever you do do it, silently, and peacefully, and in this way, you find out that you are entrusted by the authorities with more and more and more
authority of doing things. You are becoming a real channel of the Holy Spirit. [you are]. Silence is gold. Have that in your mind. And the real work is done in silence.
Now, I gave you the whole work you have to do, lying before you. You can work for years and years and years and years and teach these things. I say that, by practicing, developing, finding the truth, then you believe it, not because I said unto you. Do all these things to convince you this is the truth and this is the reality. In your life. But, have this in your mind. What for, you are supposed to have all these powers? Here is the greatest danger. Showing yourself, becoming slave of your egoism. Better not have it. What are you supposed to do? Yes, I get from the mind so [unint.], curing people, how, to be seen or because you love them? Even to have thanks from them? Don't accept even thanks.
So, you have to do all these things, for it's honor. For the sake of life, and love. You shouldn't allow anything coming out of your heart, except love. And understanding. And when I say love, I mean Love, not love by reflection. What's love by reflection? Usually people love members of their family, their husbands and wives, or even childrens, by reflection. It is because they love themselves. It is because they want that their children, or parents, or wives or husband, they want
85'00"
to obey them, to notice them, to follow them, this is love by reflection. And if, this partner, is not enjoying this stupid egoism, they start quarreling, and even separation. "Oh, she cannot understand me! Oh, he cannot do that or that or that or complain.” And under all those complaints, you find, what they call love by reflection. Nothing more I would say otherwise.
One should love for the sake of love. And love the beloved one as that beloved one is. Not as he wants him, or wants her to be. But as they are. Because each one of us, is in that stage of evolution, he has to learn the next lessons. You cannot uproot him from there and put him somewhere else. He'll find himself as a stranger, to the circumstances.
So the first, is true, of a researcher after the truth, is tolerance and patience. Of course. You can show things which are better, and leave them to follow it. You can instruct, not beg, forcing others to follow what
you are saying. They have to decide.
So, love those who you say you love, for the sake of love, because you have to love them. Not as you think they should be. Of course, if you want them to be something else, you cannot close your eyes to certain things which are not right. Visualize them better. Send them an elemental of love and kindness, and what you think it would better for them to be. Not forcing them. Instructing them. And wait.
So, after you get the habit of visualization, and learn the way of projecting good elementals, you have to do the work of real help to the others. Sending them Guardian Angels, guiding them towards the truth. Which is the truth? Living a life free from pain, troubles, and agony. This is the truth. So, there is much work, much, much work to do before you. Whether you follow the course of the psychotherapist, or of any other kind of service in the community, there is much, much work to be done, because our world, as it is now, in all countries, in all places on the planet, is in confusion. And in a struggle. Which results in the illnesses of the material bodies. Because the result of agony, the wrong way of living, is leading to illnesses in their material bodies. So, so not only necessary and desirable to cure all the material bodies, but a psychotherapist should care also about the so-called psychical body, or the personality of the people, by learning what I call psychoanalysis and real psychoanalysis. So there is much, much work.
90'01"
And the more, you are trained, the more you find, that you have more and more to learn. And do. So never say that you know much. Even myself, every day I have to see new things and learn more. So have it in your mind. Constant observation, meditation, and concentration, and especially patience and tolerance, will lead you to the true cause of things, towards the truth. And don't allow in your hearts anything besides love, not by reflection, but real love towards all. No criticism is necessary. Because those whom you are supposed to criticize are those who are more in need of your love and your help.
So, again I say, have as your best friend, the New Testament. Have as your example the behavior of the Beloved One, Christ. And you are on the same way to the Truth, He was. The Way, and the Truth and Life. So
have that in your mind. So any questions now?
How can you strengthen the love in your heart?
In your heart, the light. By training yourself to love properly. By allowing your heart to reflect the light. By polishing a mirror, it reflects more light. By cleaning your heart. That's all. And what Christ said, "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God." It is through the heart you will see God. God is love and life. So. Yeah. [understand?]
So, I wish you, just those who want to advance, to make daily their exercises. Yeah.