1990.06.10 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
Our Father who art in Heaven, Hallowed be thy Name, Thy Kingdom come thy will be done, on earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily
bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. God of Life, Love and Mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen.
I welcome the newcomers. Most of you belong already to our circles, for the Research of the Truth, in circles and in groups in your own place, so the lessons are not unknown to you.
Most of you have attended many lessons in your language. Thanks to those who are heading our circles in your place. I haven’t tell you - many of you - and of course you are presenting some of your problems. Each one of you thinks that his problem, or his problems, are the most serious. This is not so. Though the problems are very very different, yet the causes are the same and the treatment is also the same. Apart from your problem, problems of all people really, are nearly the same. What are these problems?
We said that our life today, each one of us, is presenting, in life, a so-called present day personality. Whether a man or a woman. And of course, living as a present day personality, while creating problems. Our problems. And problems to all who are with us, around us. The Hindus call that ‘karma’. We call it ‘individual karma’, ‘family karma’, when they have a group and the whole family to share the same problems, we have a ‘social karma’, we have a ‘national karma’, and a ‘human karma’. Being all human.
So, what you call a karma, a Hindu one, what, the Greeks have the same word “kreema’. It’s what we call cause and effect. This is very scientific. Cause and effect - According to our Christian religion, Christ said “whatever you sow, so ye shall reap.” In all religions, at all times in the world. The law of cause and effect. Which means,
5’00”
our problems, the effects of certain causes, are all problems that you have to face, but who are the causes? Who created the causes? Why should do you call ‘blame’, about the effects, when we are the causes of those
effects? We say how. By the way we are thinking, feeling and acting. And I’m putting you the questions “are we sincere with ourselves?” To analyze how ourselves and see the problems, and see where are the roots of those problems, we usually complain. Of our fate, bad luck, and so many, so many things.
Some think that certain people are facing a bad luck and others a good luck. No. Each one is facing the consequences of his own destiny he has created. This is [itros?] Now, don’t we believe that something is all ready to come to us? Of course, if new causes will not change it. But nothing can foresee or speak about the future since you have the present can change the future.
[Evokers?] Nothing will intervene in the in-between the time the effect will come definitely, that’s an effect due to a cause all ready, of the past. Nothing can change it. But we are living now and we can change the future. So there is not protesting the future. Since we have the present, and we have new way of thinking, feeling, and acting, we can change the effects of previous causes by new causes now.
Now you’ll tell me “Yes, but… do we annihilate the bad causes? The causes of the past?” No. we overcome them. And I gave the other day, and example. We have on the earth, on our planet, the law of gravity. Everything you hold in your hands and you leave it, it will drop to the ground. That’s the law of gravity. Everyone knows the law of gravity, because walking, living we are under the influence of this law of gravity. Even the circulation of our blood in our body is obeying the law of gravity. We are not going to [unint.] the law of gravity. If one is not careful and he stumbles, the fellow on the ground, by the law of gravity, and maybe too have a wound. On his knee, his hand, somewhere. So the law of gravity is a fact. And you know it.
Yet you have new factors [stoa?] now, and you have the jets flying. In a few hours, you are in another country by plane. The jet. Why is the law of gravity? We overcome temporarily the law of gravity but the law of gravity is still there. We can overcome it. How? By new causes. New causes are just overcoming old causes. So must have in mind now, the new causes which can not only overcome
10’00”
but completely annihilate the effects of old causes in the Mind. Thinking. Everything that happens is due to the elementals we are re-energizing or creating. We said in a lesson…many lessons…that our present day personality or our subconsciousness - it’s the same - because our present personality is composed of 80% of our subconsciousness and only 20% of the surface of the ocean I call subconsciousness. I call it waking consciousness. And this present day personality and our subconsciousness is composed of the elementals either which we have created or re-energized from the group elemental of the same kind. We have re-energized. So we are responsible for that. These elementals are composing our present day personality and we say that the quality of our present day personality is the quality of the elementals composing it.
So, now we have to face a subconsciousness - for which we are responsible of its quality - and [dequin?] the consequences which will follow. Every cause has a relative effect. So, what comes to us as a problem, is the effect of these elementals. Many lessons you said that - these elementals, call them nature spirits, call them thought forms, you will use many many words for this - these elementals are not visible to the eyes. Yet they are so powerful - they have so much force - that they keep most of the human beings as their slaves. Torturing them.
Now, the orthodox science has parapsychology is studying what they call ‘fixed ideas’. And most of you who are running psychical centers, you must know about them. If you practice what we call ‘psychoanalysis.’ Yes, these elementals are most powerful. Yet, not visible, and we said every thought, every wish, every emotion, everything that comes to our attention is creating an elemental, either from the very beginning, or by re-energizing an elemental from the group elemental of that family (of the elemental). Which enters our subconsciousness as part of our present day personality.
So whatever comes to us, it is the result of these elementals. As thoughts, wishes, desires, pre-dispositions, and actions. Though these elementals are not visible the actions for which these elementals are responsible are visible. They can be murderous. Stealing. So many other things we see in the society. So everything is the result of these elementals.
What is the circles for the Research of Truth teaching now? The way to enter boldly, and with courage, each one of us, to our subconsciousness
15’00”
and sincerely… you should be sincere to yourself… face the conditions in your subconsciousness - your present day personality. Analyze your emotions. It’s not difficult. They’re easy. Analyze the already existing, as weaknesses in your subconsciousness due to emotions, wishes, and desires, in the past and start now, after the analysis to change the elementals. To replace these negative elementals with positive elementals. These destructive elementals with creative elementals.
Is that possible? Of course it is. Is that difficult? Sometimes yes. Very difficult. Sometime is not. But I’m asking you now. Is it desirable? Are you willing to do that? ‘Cause most of you, though you are suffering from those elementals, you don’t want to have that change in yourself. Forgive and forget. I said now “Divorce the elemental”. Divorce devil. In every one of you is the feeling of being wounded or offended. The feeling of being offended or wounded is the worst devil torturing people now.
I hear some people, “Yes of course, I have done so much [unint.]… they made me cry, they nearly destroyed me.” There are others that “Yes, I’ll forgive them, I’ll forget them.” This is not very easy to do it. “I will do it, I promise you, after I take revenge.” [laughter]
I heard it from many, many people. Not only Cypriots… Germans, Jews, French, because all human beings are alike.
Their problem may be different there, yet the causes and the treatment is the same. And I am telling you, to take revenge and then forgive and forget - yes - but I am telling you something… the fruit of revenge is very very sweet in eating it. But [polisol?] is saying it’s very bad in digestion. You must have this in your mind. Nobody had attempted to take revenge, and succeeded to do it, without repenting it very bitterly. Due to the law of cause and effect. Nobody can escape from the cause and effect. This you must have in mind.
I’m a Christian. Why? Because I was born a Christian. Then we call Christian. A Christian is always a Christian, never mind if people are calling him Roman Catholic, Protestant, Greek Orthodox, Maronite, Armenian… A Christian is always a Christian if he follows the teaching of
the Lord of Love.
When I say I’m a Christian, I mean I am a Christian. Why, because I was born a Christian? No! Because I know that the Lord of Love has put forward to the human beings all the laws giving the excuses for the right behavior! And most of us who learn just for enlightenment in this are wrong.
This has nothing to teach more than the Gospel. You are willing to understand it and follow it. It’s a code of life. It is a right way of living. You will stick to it, study it, and understand it.
So, apart from the gospel,
20’00”
which is giving reason and sense in its teachings. If we take heed of it, we change our life. We change the laws of cause and effect - the law of karma. If we don’t do it, what will happen? There is another way of getting our lessons. The whip of destiny. The whip of karma. The lesson should be taken. Either by reason, by right thinking, or by the whip of karma, which is pain, and tears, and despair.
Why not get the easiest way? And the best way for us and the others?
So, studying the problems of all persons… different problems… because are different the circumstances, the environment and the conditions of their life. Yet, they are the same. Which is the cause, really, of all your problems? No matter what’s the problem. Either feeling wounded, either by your own people, or by others… feeling offended and a devil arising in your egoism, which is why? Why that? and Why that? And so follows suffering. If I will not say ‘hatred’, if we don’t despise, and many many other things.
Now boldly you must make a self analysis. This is the reason of the introspection every night, which is the duty of every Researchers after the Truth. Boldly, sincerely, face in your subconsciousness what exists. Analyze that part of yourself you call your egoism. Which is a devil, presenting itself and yourself. Have that in your mind.
So, by what I call introspection or looking within, the self analysis, we must find the causes and you’ll understand the effects of those causes governing your own life. Creating your own problems. Everybody says “I am in a situation sir, I am not responsible.” Others are responsible. Parents, friends, colleagues, partners, definitely each one is innocent. All the others are wrong and you are innocent. This is what your egoism is persuading you. It’s because you don’t see things being sincere to yourself. How much we are responsible, we must find it out.
I can say that being provoked, and provoking, and being re-provoked and re-provoking, we don’t create a bad situation. It’s what happens to all people. And what happens when you provoke. When you say bitter words, when you be saying that in that way. You don’t observe it, because you did it. But when you hear something from the others, being provoked by the others, you will notice every word told against you. This is not the right measure of measuring events.
So being sincere with yourself in facing your emotions, your weaknesses, your
25’00”
dispositions. Behind your weaknesses of course there are some course to do later. You must be sincere with yourself. Not measuring things with two kinds of measure, but with the right measure. And Christ says, “what you want others to do to you, do you even to them.” It’s measured within your testament.
So, sincerely we should every night, before retiring, I’m speaking to the members of the circles, in Switzerland, in Germany, in France, and in America, in all places - it is the duty of every member in the circles for the Research of Truth every night at least for 10 minutes, to make that exercise of introspection. Entering within. Seeing an event of the day which passed. Study it, which means bring it forward in the surface in your consciousness. It’s there in your subconsciousness now. What happened before a few hours, maybe. In the family, in the house, in your office, in your business, in your community, all around you.
Maybe a clash between yourself and somebody else or some others. Now, with this introspection, you practice visualization, is a kind of creative
meditation. Because to bring to the surface of your consciousness the scenery, the persons, the circumstances, and then, what took place… it is a good practice of meditation. You have just the benefit of it, but now you have more. You will see what really happened. You will see things as a bad person. You see yourself in that event and judge it, yourself now, as something which is not really yourself. It was your behavior, it was your egoism. You should be just now. Just in what? Accusing the egoism yourself in its behavior? Before a few hours, no. You don’t start accusing. We are not masochists. You study, as a third person, you are not going to say ‘oh, listen’. The second face of the hypocrisy of the egoism, when finding that its detected by your real ego, it presents itself in a different way.
I’m telling you, I’m not going to accuse you - that’s not - what has been done has been done. What it was said, it was said, that’s all. What happened, happened. Now I’m not coming to judge or criticize, but to study the circumstances, to study the whys, that was that and like that, and just come to conclusions. Come to decision. Why did I say that? And of course before starting your introspection, you must have in your mind these things:
-what I said which I shouldn’t say
-what I didn’t say, that I had to say
-what I did that I shouldn’t do
-what I didn’t do that I had to do.
30’00”
That means:
-what I said that I shouldn’t say - sometimes it’s better to keep silent.
-what I didn’t say, that I had to say - just a kind word, ‘my friend, my brother’
“what do I should be saving this way? Just explain to me you suggest [sputtery matter?]”. Not stay silent when you have something to say to calm spirits down. Because people come to blows. You must have this in mind, in time.
-what you did that you should have not done - maybe, to seek somebody
not to say words, the savior.
-and what I didn’t do that I should do - probably going to a fellow, a beloved one in difficult circumstances, [unint.], or take him a good [unint.], shake his hand and [unint.] ‘come, come’, made the same misunderstanding.
Such behavior calms down the boy, [instead of attracting people to it?]. So having in our minds this ‘what I should say which I didn’t say’, ‘what I said, which I shouldn’t say’ - maybe an insult, offending them - ‘what I did, which I shouldn’t do’ - shaking the man, just like that - and ‘what I didn’t do that I had to do’ - maybe a caress or a kiss.
And these things calm down. And after the introspection - looking within - start seeing the causes. Catch the devil. “Come here. Now I catch you, I know you.” It will say “No, no, but I am you!” Said, “No, you are not me. Now I am seeing you. Yes, you was, you were deceiving me. Presenting yourself as myself. You are a devil, and your name is Being Offended. Being wounded. You as my egoism have been wounded, not me. Not myself.”
So, with introspection in the course of time, you understand that. You are a different entity and being, from the expressions of your in time and space and the creation in time and place space, of a kind of self-consciousness, which you may make the mistake to think that it’s you. By introspection and the right thinking, right meditation, observation, observing everything - nothing to escape from your attention, you come to the right conclusion. I - am - I. And you are George, Mary, Tom, you are cunning, my egoism, with this mask of a personality, creation in time and place space.
So you separate your eternal self - your real Ego - god - from its shadow in time and space, which is the cause of all the troubles - of your troubles. Now if you find yourself as the Soul, the troubles cannot reach you. But if you are mixed with that time and place space personality of yours, that personality suffers. Suffers its own thoughts. And the idea is not that. The idea is to make this shadow self consciousness of your present day personality be assimilated with its real self the soul ego self consciousness, and save it. Because even your present day personality
35’00”
as a man, or as a woman, living in a material body in a psychical and an
etheric and noetical body created and kept in good order by the Archangels and the Holy Spirit, even that is holy. And that should be saved. According to Christ, the perishable - perishable in time and space - will in a sense, will become imperishable. And the mortal, under constant changes, will become immortal. Eternal. That means, your self consciousness in time and place space present day personality is not to be killed, by killing the egoism, is not to be annihilated, is to be transmuted into your own self. Nothing is lost, but what we call egoism has to abandoned, and left behind. And what we succeed this way, and how we do it, how? By our selves and our Soul-Ego-Self consciousness, later on super-consciousness, start seriously to study the present day personality behavior, and study the composition of this present day personality as emotions, wishes, desires, predispositions, with the ‘why?’ why that and why that? And the way of behavior until that moment. What will happen now?
You’ll find yourself dual. Your real self who is reasoning and the shadow of yourself which you are in it, trying all the time to find excuses for the faults, and reasons. Why that and why that. Don’t accept that. We said look here, “I judge now, and by judging I don’t mean correcting you, but changing you. I have to change you - I love you - you express my nature as self-consciousness, and you express a time and space little self-consciousness, that I want to save. I don’t care about the material body, because sooner or later that material body will be left behind and I will pass over. Who I?
As the Soul-Self-Super consciousness - yes, not only that - and you, because you as present day personality you express a self-consciousness. A small self-consciousness, a time and place space self consciousness, that has to be saved.
So, nothing from what you consider yourself can be lost. Not even one of these elementals that’s composing your present day personality which you might think it is evil. Some people said “Yes, sir, we want to know the way how we shall kill all those bad elementals”, not calling them evil elementals, bad elementals…. once we find them out, how we are going to kill them. Kill the elementals? Nobody can kill any elementals. Once an elementals is created, it will remain living in the Cosmic Consciousness.
What we can do is: that elemental or that group elemental of the same
family which you have revitalized, re-energized, you can disenergize it. And let it go in the Cosmic Consciousness. Not torturing anymore, if you are not interested any more about it.
40’00”
Some are coming to me and say “Sir, I am sure that sometime I am possessed by evil elementals or devils. How should I get free from these bad influences?”
A lady came here, that telling me “sir, I was practicing, practicing yoga, just opened my chakras, and really I have opened them.” Happily, she didn’t. Because that’s the most, most dangerous. “And when I retire, somebody’s insulting me. Telling me very very bad insults.” I said, “Lady, you never thought saying this insults to somebody else? A neighbor, or .. ” “Oh yes, of course.” “They are inside you.” “But no sir, they are real. They are telling what is… I am ashamed to tell you what they are telling me.” “Are you sure in the past, or even now, you are not ready to cast these words to others?” “But sir I am coming you now, to tell you what is torturing me, and you come now just to ….”
“Now look here. I said, “Who do you think is speaking to you? Now… The devil? What’s the devil? “ “An evil spirit” “What’s an evil spirit?” “But sir, an evil spirit!” said, “look here. You are face to face with your subconsciousness, and what possessing is going to do is one or more elementals in your subconscious, which you have reenergized, with evil or bad feelings toward others. You are responsible for that.
Now what do I want to say. If you don’t open the gates of your subconsciousness to what we call evil elementals or bad elementals, they cannot find entrance in your subconsciousness. So if you are under that influence of such elementals, you are responsible for reenergizing them or revitalizing them. Unless you vibrate in the same rate of vibration with those vibrations, they cannot find entrance in your subconsciousness.
Now. And how we must get rid of them? By changing the rate of your vibrations! In this way you disenergized them. They will not find that needed force to be all the time reenergized and torment you. By fighting them, you never succeed to win. Many are under those elementals. Of smoking, gambling, sex elementals, jealousy, hatreds. Some, when they are in a serve their ego, during the night, its just interfering, when they
wake up they think “oh yes, of course, I know, I have done wrong.” This we call ‘stings of conscience -ness’. And most people are feeling these ‘stings of consciousness’, which are either from your Guardian Angel within you, or your Soul-Ego. It might be, from both to the present day personality. Then the present day personality feels that that is a wrong, and that’s good. Where you have the place of something good, from the inner self.
But are people, as a present day personality, willing to change? If you are willing to change, that’s the secret. Forget
45’00”
“Yes, sir, I try and do my best to forget but I cannot forgive.” What does it mean you can not forgive and you can forget? “Forget the event, but I cannot forgive it.” You are doing nothing. You reenergize those elementals torturing you. “Sir, really I know the Doctor told me there be a [random?] danger of cancer in my lungs.” Yes, usually, I see that. Very bad lungs - full of nicotine and all that. “Oh, I cough every morning - I cannot live believe me. I cannot even breathe.” “Give it up!” “Oh I have done so many times. I fought with it, I stood it for a month or two. Then when I see others smoking, I start smoking again. Five or six times I gave it up and I do it again.” “Why?” One time he tells me, “I didn’t fight to stop it.” “It is because you are fighting to stop it… you could not win.” Because by fighting something of this weaknesses, you strengthen it, you give it your thought. How we get rid…
[end of tape side]
So. Fighting an elemental, which we have in our subconsciousness to some certain weakness. Fighting it, we strengthen it. That’s not the way. We’ll never be able to overcome it. Then how we can get rid of it? By knowing the way how to disenergize it! And which is the way? Not being interested any more for it!
This is the way. Convince yourself that you are not interested any more on this weakness - on smoking - in drinking, in gambling. And then, you succeed to overcome it. “Sir, how many times I said I’ll not go for gambling. When the time comes, just, I feel in myself the desire of going and gambling. And of course my wife is shouting - many times you are
losing money - yes I know it’s bad, it’s very bad, I know it, but… I am fighting it!” And you are losing. You are going. If one day you say “Yes, I have that feeling - no, I shouldn’t - and by reason now, I convince myself that I am not interested any more in going to those places - in gambling.” If you convince yourself for that, you are losing interest, you win. You give it up.
So, we come to this conclusion. Our life as a present day personality is the total of our emotions, thoughts, dispositions, desires, creating elementals. We are, as a present day personality the sum total of these elementals. And our present day personality, in reality, is not our self but, of our present day personality self is its disposition or a kind of self consciousness. That we will save, by assimilating that self consciousness of the present day personality with our real self consciousness - our Souls. By assimilation.
So, when under a weakness, and under desire, certain violent feelings - we fight them, we’ll be defeated. If forgetting them and not being interested in them, we dis-energize them. And you’re free.
So, if you want to get free from what you call evil elementals, don’t allow them to enter your subconsciousness by reenergizing them. And believe me, that no evil elemental will find entrance in you if you have a clean and pure heart. Because all emotional elementals have an entrance in your subconsciousness through a heart vibrating in the same rate of vibrations with them. So you should guard your heart to get rid of elementals which are not desirable. Believe me this is most easy thing to do once you get the decision. It is a most difficult thing to succeed and do if you don’t reach to this decision, and you fight it.
So it is the right way, and the right way is to know the truth through introspection, self analysis, analyzing the self as present day personality - not more than 10 minutes, quarter of an hour - every night. Before going to bed.
I heard another question. That many of the so called psychotherapists who already are running centers in Switzerland, in Germany, in France, Belgium, England… “Oh sir, you know, don’t you feel tired sometimes? We see you doing so much work. Maybe 80 people a day, except the lesson… starting from early in the morning, 5 o’clock. Because seekers
are coming very early just to go to their work and they say, they complain you don’t find time you have the Swiss and the Germans all the time and we cannot see…. So, you are not exhausted?”
My body? Yes, sometimes yes. I do feel exhausted as a body, not myself. Or I as an Ego. Never feeling exhausted. How we should not feel exhausted? I heard them. A psychotherapist who said, “I cannot work with more than 2 or 3 people.” They feel so exhausted they are shouldering with their karma. Said, “No. This is not so. Nobody can shoulder to you his karma before learning his lesson. And even, if you want, to get part of his karma, before learning the lesson for which he suffers that, you’ll not be able to take any of his karma.
But you can get part of his karma after he learns the lesson and it remains something more. Because you can get the karma of beloved ones in this way - shorten their karma - after they have learned their lesson. But you can even shorten the karma of all those who say they are your enemies. And that’s more Divine.
55’00”
And a good daskalos is doing that. No need for the other fellow to know anything about it. He must have killed his egoism so not to expect any reward, even as thanks. So, shorten the karma of people who have learned their lesson and they are still behaving in an inimical way to you - do it. It is Divine. Then you are under the instructions of the Beloved One: “Love your neighbor as you love yourself.” This is the meaning. And your neighbor is anyone no matter how he behaves toward you. He says those who are members of our circles, when you give to yourselves the seven promises, we mentioned that, I think, it is not an obligation, but just a wish you give to thyself, to behave in that way.
So, nobody can shoulder the burden - I call it like that - of anybody else, if he does not want to do it, and, if that fellow didn’t learn the lesson out of it.
So, “Sir, from where we will get extra energy?” As [any why?] told like that. Now this is clear. Suppose we are given hundred units of this energy every day - a man or a woman. This is our daily bread from heaven, by breathing, eating, entombed, in what we call the law of metabolism. Yes, our material body, through the etheric double, lives, its
full of energy - which the Holy Archangels are using in keeping good health in our material body.
Now, if from this hundred units we need, say 40 percent, of this energy in moving our material body here and there, in thinking, in speaking, in living, because everything we do, it exhausts energy. This energy. And say another 60 percent, or another 40 percent, are needed by the Holy Spirit and all Archangels, to do it in keeping you in good order - our bodies. So we have another 20% extra to do with as you like, or keep it.
What we are doing with the way we are living, being under the influence of so many kinds of elementals in our egoism, feeling upset, angry, shouting, beating sometimes… which are exhausting us. Everyone have noticed that, everyone under the feet of an anger, after that, that fellow is feeling exhausted. Why? Because he is burning this etheric vitality. And we suppose in it, case of anger, bursting into anger, he burns in a few minutes 80% of this vital energy. What remains for the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels to do the work in repairing what they should in the material bodies with a [sertable?].
Yes I had a question, “Well, the Holy
60’00”
Spirit and the Archangels cannot get more vital energy?” For us, why should they? If we are misusing it, why they should give you more? Suppose I said you are a father, and you tell your son, “here are 10 shillings for you today. You must look that you don’t spend more. You have to spend this and of course keep some of it.” And then stupidly, you spend this money. You going to the father, ‘now I want more!’ Maybe he will give you a slap! You deserve having it.
You have to know to preserve this divine energy we call the super substance of the Mind, given to you as an entity to live. The life carrier energy. Life carrier - to your material body, psychical body and mental body. So you’ll not be given more. And what will be the result? All kind of illnesses. Because you deprive your etheric double from giving good health to the material body. And then there are so many illnesses of the material body only.
So, put it on the psychotherapists. How much of their energy they will be using for the others, curing others. First of all, nobody has to help anyone - through the Holy Spirit doing it. All a psychotherapist can do is just to pass from his body, the etheric vitality to the body of the sufferer. And again, this etheric vitality is not yours. It is Divine force. It is the life giving energy.
Well, we said we have 100 units a day. How many of these units I must use? Maybe I need 10,000 of these units. You will have them. They will be given to you. So I’m telling to the psychotherapists “don’t worry giving energy to anybody, to any sufferer, you’ll never be exhausted if you open yourself to the source of the energy which is everywhere and within you.”
“Within you where? Your present day personality or within your say - Soul?” Definitely within your say - Soul. When the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels working through your physical body and the etheric double of your physical body, and in the body of the sufferer, your love and your wish to give that etheric vitality - they attune you to the source of energy which is everywhere. And you get as much energy as it is required. Many occasions I had more than 80 people a day, with serious illnesses. They leave completely cured. I didn’t cure anybody, myself. The Holy Spirit and God. And you will be the instruments of Divine Will. No one of you must claim that you have cured another fellow. It’s God, not you. Are cured even, through you. Through your etheric double with again is not yours. Which is His. It’s God’s.
So, take away from the Holy Work, egoism. Your present day personality being a psychotherapist, you belong to it.
65’00”
To the Divine Will. To the Absolute Beingness. Forget your egoism. And in so doing, you’re attuned to the source of energy. Which is, I tell you, everywhere and within you. It happens someday that I had to work all through the night, burning that etheric vitality of mine. Getting up in the morning, 5 o’clock, to find people knocking at the door. Really, I repeat, what I wanted to say that, I was feeling I was exhausted. Terribly exhausted. Alright, I’ll breathe regularly in the way I know how to do it, you can sit there, and I started my work that day, too much work. I have seen more than 80 people, and release [ericky?] people, at least 60 went away
completely cured. Not by me again I say, the Holy Spirit.
How much energy was needed? Shorter legs to become longer? Lame people walking. Much energy. And when, at 11 o’clock in the evening - I had to give also 2 lessons that day - taking long hours. I wanted to go to bed, I was feeling I was quite alright. While in the morning getting up, I want feeling I had enough energy. What does it mean? Putting myself as instrument to the Divine Will. Attuning myself to the source of energy, giving so much energy, I was overfull with energy.
At night I made at 11 o’clock, when I had to leave my body for other kind of work. So, I’m telling you, if you love the human beings, if you start working, not with displeasure of feeling tired, but with love, then you will be blessed by the Lords of Energy. Do your work, and you have your reward, whether you ask for it, or when you don’t ask for it. Anyhow myself have never lost [the nearly want?]. Yet I have it all the time. You will have it also.
So, many are coming and I know many of you have run psychotherapistic centers. This work is Holy. Must approach it in this sense. To become the instrument of the infinite beingness and the Holy Spirit in helping the suffering brothers and sisters of yours, it’s a Holy mission. You must have that in your mind, you must approach it this way. Don’t just “I want to be a good psychotherapist… all people around me will praise me… they’ll say yes, he or she had so many successes”… that’s good and all that. This is not the way. Your center should be a temple of the Lord. Your love to your neighbor, man or a woman, no matter who is that fellow - man or woman - they might be a saint or a criminal - it might be a Saint Lady or a prostitute - that’s not your business. That’s her business, and his business and what’s his name. On the other hand, make a prayer to see the light, to see the truth. To be lightened. Those who are as you consider in a bad state,
70’00”
are more in need of your love. And attention, and your prayers. So no distinction. A prince and a beggar, for you are suffering brothers. You must have that in your mind. So make your center a temple of God. Temple of God, the Divine vitality will bless it, and will be used for curing your suffering brothers. Having that in your mind, you will see your center
as a church. And that’s a Divine mission. If you approach in this way, you will be blessed.
Something else. Maybe people are coming to you and you feel a sympathy for them. And you see nothing. At the beginning you’ll say “you want this small thing of course, by giving etheric vitality or that or that. He will be alright or she will be alright and go. And you see that nothing happened.
Don’t be disappointed. It’s not you who will decide. The Holy Spirit. So, sometimes you see things you would never expect to be. People around you will consider to be miracles. Again I say there are no miracles. It’s only one miracle - life. Everything else are events in time and place space - nothing more than that. Everything you call miraculous is an event in time and space.
So, it’s not you who decides. When in your approach, say “we promise nothing, and we disclose nothing.” Because that’s not with in the Holy Spirit. Even our feelings will not affect the results. On many occasions, people came - and really, I’m a human being - some novel weaknesses. Call them like that. A fellow comes maybe from [pasting her nations?] past behavior, is feeling kind of more sympathy observing that fellow, more than observing the others. I don’t call it weakness, because there is a reason behind it. There must be a reason behind it. And yet, for that fellow, you can do nothing. That’s the role of the Infinite Beingness. Don’t complain to it. Besides what, we say, “Thy Will Be Done on earth as it is in Heaven.” It’s not our will. His will. Infinite Beingness will.
So, I know that some of you who run the psychotherapistic centers - I get it from your minds - there are 5 or 6 of you, though you have not expressed it as yet, I know it. You want me, just for anything sometime to give you instructions on how. This I will do. My daughter you will arrange for that meeting. But I want to you understand that you are instruments of the Infinite Beingness. You must fill your heart with love towards all human beings. You will never feel tired of doing the will of God.
Will be tempted. How? Sometimes you will feel tired. Then in that moment, you will feel you need rest, as a body, not as a Soul. Always you’re full. Plus, you can have the vitality. It’s not the vitality which you will make your rest. You need rest, the body needs rest. No
75’00”
matter how much vitality, you will fill it with. Yet, the time you feel ‘I would like just to withdraw’, you are feeling, really you are feeling it. Somebody comes. That’s why I saw it, don’t be tempted. They “ohhhh…” Never say so. Say “All right. Come. Do your duty, let that fellow go. Do you can do, when you can not do much. Say what is good, worth a say. But never complain. You are an instrument in the hands of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. And your mission is Holy. In becoming psychotherapists, psychiatrists, or helpers of any kind. Because in your self comes - there is much work to be done. In many branches, and in many ways.
So those who are not destined to become psychotherapists, in the circles they have different other duties to perform. Maybe it’s not the right word. Duties. Because what you perform, what you do as a duty can make you feel tired. Things that should give you pleasure in doing, then under this disposition, you never feel tired. And you never feel displeased with your work. So approach this work of the psychotherapist with such a disposition, filling your heart with love, towards all. Yea. You have any questions?
I think I have covered much ground for you. And something else. I see some of you belonging to different circles. Some circles in Germany, others in circles in Switzerland, and in other places, it’s what I would say now. Out of experience, the long long years of running circles, Cyprus, Greece, Bulgaria, England, many many many countries. I have what I call an independent circles. These independent circles are headed by one or two or three, according to the number of the members, of what we call ‘teachers’ - Daskale. This is the highest honor and highest title. Have that in your mind.
And the assistance Daskale according to the number of the circles. These, while heading the circle, are getting the white robe. Why white robe?
That means virtue, innocence, and love. Look here, if you have a robe of any kind and color, color robes are hiding much dirt. But a white robe is not hiding it. Even a fly, come on it, it’s seen. That means perfect purity.
That means the white robe.
So, those who are serving the teachers, they are again teachers, qualified, all of them, have what you call the ‘white ribbon’. As a symbol again of purity. Not as a rank, as a symbol of purity. So I have in Cyprus only Nicosia, ten such centers. I have one with six
80’00”
hundred and twenty members.
So, I call them independent circles, which means each circle has its independence. No member of another circle will go in it, or go to another circle, unless approved by the head of the circle for certain purpose. If that is not so, these people create confusion, create division, and troubles. So those who run self-centered circles must keep their independence. This is my wish. And my experience.
All the circles have enough material to work for the next hundred years. Because we give all the system, and much theory. So you don’t need from outside any help. You have your lessons. You have the theory, but you need practice, meditation, concentration, observation, this is what you really need. We give all details. What remains is your desire to follow it. And again I say, I see four or five people heading circles. Keep your circles independent. You have material to work with it and keeping your circle the character and the atmosphere which suits the members of your circle. It’s good.
The circles in Nicosia, whom I am visiting, each circle has a different atmosphere. A different ‘tenderousness’. A different way of behaving. I love them all in the way they express themselves. But I can’t say your circle is better than the other circles. So, you have the material, work with it. I know that some are coming cunningly, try to come with the feeling of ‘I know more. You must listen to me, you will hear me and I’ll govern it.’ You’ve had that experience and you’ve got this reaction. Show them away. They are brothers. Sisters. They are learning maybe. Let them be in their circle.
So have this in your mind to avoid troubles and disturbances.
Now I’ve had another problem. “Daskale, you are growing old. Who will be your successor? Who will point out, in your place?” And I make it clear. Some cunningly presented, one fellow, others wanted to present an other fellow, and of course they ask put in with these…
What does it mean “a successor?” To do what? No need of any successor. Each fellow, man or woman, heading a circle, is going to continue the work of our circles, for his or her circle. So we don’t need any successor. Have that in your mind.
And all teachers are equal, independent, and beloved to me. So don’t accept from outside, people
85’00”
who didn’t kill their egoism yet, to try to approach in the spirit of helping, teaching, you don’t need any teaching, you have enough. More than enough to work for the next hundred years.
So, keep the teaching. In this way, the teaching will be alright, without having changes. Otherwise if you taint the circles with personalities, they will not serve. What is to be observed is the teaching, and not the personality of the person. Again I say, you don’t need a master, or a guru, or somebody else just to show you the way. You have the way. You need your feet to cover the way.
One, if you are in need of one, may be your teacher.. the head of your circle, or myself, will be called a ‘brother guide’. Nothing more than that. Distinctive titles are spoiling the whole world. Have that in your mind. You don’t need any master. Any guru. Any swami. Or some throne of the sort. You need the truth. Christ didn’t say “Buddha will liberate you”. Or “myself will liberate you”. Or “Abraham will liberate you.” Or “Moses will liberate you.” He said, “Know the truth and the truth will liberate you.”
It’s a great honor to call yourself the “researcher for the truth”. That’s an honor, and a duty. You have to follow the truth, work for the truth, and reach - where will you reach? To the highest spiritual development. If you are faithful to yourself and to the work. I don’t call it so. I call it to the “self realization”.
What you need is the ‘self realization’, that means assimilating your present day personality with your real Ego-Soul-self consciousness, that’s what I call the ‘self realization’. It’s everything needed. Yea.
So, any questions? Loudly please.
[Participant asks] What are the conditions for the white ribbon and who gives it?
yes. The white ribbon, which is broad white cloth, which of course Daskalos or Daskale will put on a selected man, just covering the lungs, the liver and the spleen, going down, means ‘purity’ - it’s white. Means ‘mastery of your centers of energy’. Controlling them.
And of course one should advance in the teaching through meditation. Observation and realizations reach that stage to be entrusted by the head of the circle certain number of members to teach. Teach them what? Usually, those who know English, Greek and the language I am giving the lesson, they sell the tapes. They put in text there are hundreds and hundreds of tapes for all the say, years of study. When a fellow from that group, because in every circle
90’00”
there are many many many groups. In various stages of development, since they’re many many years. Some are fifty - sixty years. So, those white ribbon assistant teachers, men or women it doesn’t matter, must be in a steady state when somebody sharing the tape will say “elaborate more, explain this more to us,” to be in a shape to explain.
So it’s a kind of teacher again. He should be qualified to help the others. Now, is it possible always to be in the place of giving advice? There are many who are, of course, candid enough to say “I’ll present”. This question, you are enquiring to Daskalos, and who will answer it, come down, I should [know?] it to you. But of course, I receive the sentence, they present me this. Questions?
Of course sometime, the one who is the head of the circle can not say, then if he can not give satisfactory, then ask him. That means proper work. And these independent circles are not in need of other common
things. They have the material to work with, and each circle has enough.
So, independent circle means that. Not others have a meaning. Because every time this happened, there were created confusions, troubles, criticism, and even quarrels. I had this in Greece. Even in Cyprus. I don’t know, say it happened in Swiss or not. Did it? Just some disputes in your circles, not quarrels anyhow. So, I think if each individual, a member of a circle, is sincere with himself, with the teaching, with the studies, there will not be troubles and confusion.
Something else I want to say. I said you are Christians. What is wrong with Buddhism? What is wrong with Taoism? Or any other religion. With the Muslims? There is nothing wrong. Because in our circles, we have from all Christian denominations, Buddhists, Taoists, and also, Muslims. I’m sending there…
[Tape ends 93’39”]