1990.nodate Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00'00 [Opening Prayer]
…Our Father in who art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven, give us this day, our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory.
God, life, love, and mercy, manifesting yourself in yourself as the total Total Wisdom and Almightiness, enlighten our minds to understand your truth, and clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen.
The lesson today is most enlightening regarding the truth for the universes and how the universes are composed. What we hear is not from books or from theories or other people in the past but by direct knowledge with the highest intelligences controlling the universes. This is the truth concerning the Absolute Beingness and its manifestation in itself. So. As we said in
previous lessons, what is eternally, is the Absolute Beingness, life.
That is in the Eternal now, eternally. And what exists all the universes are the manifestations of the Absolute Beingness in itself. In space. What space? Something incomprehensible. It is the Absolute Beingness itself.
So. Everything existing now we come to another expression of the Absolute Beingness. We know the nature of the Absolute Beingness, which is life. Now we see the expressions of the Absolute Beingness in itself, which is now the phenomena of life. We see now, life, not as a whole, but the very very many expressions of life as phenomena of life, starting from the universes.
Now, which are the universes? While the universes known to the old, ancient people, David in his psalms says, ‘The universes are full of your glory…the universes, not only one…’ According to the human intelligence, a human being can understand only several universes.
05’00”
Or the worlds of the seven dimensions. These are the worlds in which the Absolute Beingness, Life, manifests itself. And the manifestation of the Absolute Beingness is the Logos. You don’t see now a second God, but the Absolute Beingness in manifestation. Another expression of the Absolute Beingness in manifestation is what we call the Holy Spirit. So we can conceive the Absolute Beingness in three ways, yet one. Life. God. Now, we understand the word God. But is-and-it-is-God, giving us a conception of the Absolute Beingness? What is God now for a human intelligence? A supernatural being governing everything? These mean at least the word ‘God’ in the minds of the ancient people. And man, from the time he was living in the caves, the caveman, felt the necessity to create a God. To feel safe.
So the conception of God was created by necessity of the caveman and later, and still later, so that the human being should feel safe, for their safety. And we see that all through the centuries, everywhere and in all places of the world, human beings out of this necessity created their gods.
How? They created their gods by using subconsciously and without knowing, the MIND. And we said in a lesson that every thought, every
emotion, everything that comes to our attention creates an elemental. A living existence… I don’t call it entity… a living existence. So all those gods who have been created by human beings, all over the planet, were living. And are living, because they are made of MIND. And MIND is living.
And we said in a lesson that all the elementals which we create and project are living. Because they are made of the living supersubstance of the MIND. Who are those gods, functioning to protect those who created them? Definitely. Because when an elemental…all those gods who are elementals…when an elemental is strengthened by many, in the course of time they create a very strong, let us call it ‘group elemental’. Very very powerful.
And those elementals were just protecting those who had projected them and created them. And they could be seen even by those who created them. Because in the course of time, with their faith, belief, and attachment to them, through the art of what we call visualization, they could see them. Come in conscious contact with these gods.
10’00
Get advices from these gods. Being protected, but all elementals created have the nature of those who created them. They could be good or evil. You have Kali, of the Hindu. We have gods who are taking revenge. In the past, protecting those who have created them. And in Homer’s writing, we find the gods fighting with the sides of their believers. Like Sombalatana fighting for the one side, Ostof or Marf fighting with the other side and so on. And they could see them, helping them.
So, we know that all the gods of all people on the planet were living existences. Again I don’t call them entities. Something which exists, yet doesn’t have in it the nature of the Absolute Beingness. Because they are composed only by the MIND. The MIND is not God. It’s Divine, yes, it is a supersubstance, from which everything has been created - the universes have been created, but it isn’t God. It is what we call the nature. So all gods in the past lived, and are still living in the Cosmic Consciousness. But, in our time, the development of the Human Race is not in need of those gods anymore, and by losing interest towards those gods, those gods have been disenergized. And they remain in the Cosmic Consciousness. The same way one can disenergize his own undesirable
elementals and cast them to the Cosmic Consciousness. Something we know how to deal with.
So we know much I think about the elementals.
Now I’ll speak again about the universes. We have, we said, these universes, governed by certain laws. We have what we call the first universe, which is everywhere. The first universe is everywhere. It’s a point, but not defined on a surface. And ideal point. No motion in it. This is the first dimension. Very difficult to comprehend. The second dimension is a representation on a surface. So this is matter made of MIND. And we can study the surface. We see something on a surface… I could paint it. A lovely sunset in a good picture by a great painter. Then we can understand what we say ‘sunset’ is. It is a kind of conception. We’ll admire a lovely sunset presented on a canvas, on a surface.
But the surface is not in the second dimension, it’s in the third dimension. It’s something material. The presentation on the surface belongs to the second dimension, and in the second dimension, there is not motion, or movement. But you may guess the movement or the motion, by the place you see the presentation.
15’00”
You see a lovely picture of a boat or a ship sailing in the sea, and with the positions in the painting of the ship, you imagine the wind blowing. And you imagine this is going. So, there is what we call an understanding in the second dimension, but no motion. Then you have the third dimension, which is the material world we live in. The planet. The galaxy. Everything existing as a material thing. A galaxy belongs to the world of the fifth dimension. The solar system, the planets, everything material. Everything material belongs to the third dimension. And in the third dimension we have length, breadth, and height of the three dimensions. And in this world of the fifth dimension, we have things existing and we can see in them motion. And this is the world, in which we see living forms. Life manifested as living forms. This is the material world. The surface of our planet. The whole planet resists, you can feel life in it manifested. So life is manifested in what we call the world of the three dimensions, which means the material world.
Now, the material world, as we see it. You have it ready-made… you didn’t
do anything for it. You did not create the planet. We did not create the mountains. The trees. The seas. Everything existing on the planet. And what’s the planet after all? In the world of the three dimensions, the material plane, which are the galaxies, all the galaxies, all the solar systems, everything existing moving and living. Everything is living in the worlds of the three dimensions. A grain of sand is living a rock is living a kind of life we don’t understand. But there can never be anything dead, because then there would not be the everlasting life of the Infinite Beingness.
The methods of living that are under conditions, even illnesses, the iron gets rusty. You find the effects on the material objects. Now, we have the material world. Our planet. With everything existing on this planet. Who created them? Who created the planet? Who created the solar system? Who created the galaxies? Many many galaxies just like our own galaxy. What are these material things? They are things, existences. Made of? Made of MIND. The supersubstance of the MIND. So, matter is solid MIND.
And because matter is solid MIND, we find in it the laws of the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness, which we study as the circles of possibility governing and ruling every phenomenon of life. In the vegetable kingdom, in the animal kingdom, human. Everything is under what we call the circles of possibilities. And the circles of probabilities. This is the world of the three dimensions.
20’00”
What is the world of the fourth dimension now? Where is the world of the fourth dimension? Concerning space, everything existing, from the atom, the molecule…everything… the planet, the galaxy has what we call the psychical counterpart.
This is what we call the psychical world. There can never be any material thing without having a so-called psychical body. This is the world of the fourth dimension. What are the characteristics of the worlds of the fourth dimension? You can find there solids, liquids, gases and everything. The same Archangels working for this world and all of the worlds now express different laws. One of the laws governing the material plane is to have a center, everything, and be under the laws of attraction and repulsion and balance. Balance. Balance is the total wisdom. Relative is the law of
attraction, relative is the law of repulsion, and the balance. We can see it in our Solar System. There is a repulsion from the Sun toward the planets. There is also an attraction, but we don’t see any planet flying on the sun and being burned. Then we have the law of harmony and the balance as each planet, according to its size and composition, obeying the laws of attraction and repulsion, most wisely by the Infinite Beingness, keeps the relative distance and moves around the circle and around the Sun. Moving around the Sun proves the law of attraction. But no planet, from year to year goes further to its orbit, because there is order, there is order in chaos.
Who is keeping these orders? Those who created everything existing on the planets. On the planets, all the planets. The Lords of the Elements, the Archangels. All the orders of the Archangels.
Now I will come to another point of study.
The Archangels are eternal beings as we are. Because the Order of the Human Race is Archangelic. Each Human being is an Archangel. Each human being is a god. Each human being expressing its nature as life and god expresses a self-consciousness. Do the Archangels express a self-consciousness? Definitely, but an Archangelic self-consciousness. And the self-consciousness of the human peoples is different to the Archangelic self-consciousness.
Now, can the Archangelic self-consciousness be attuned to the Archangelic human self-consciousness? Sometimes yes, not always. Can the self-consciousness of an advanced
25’00”
human being attune itself to the Archangelic self-consciousness of any order of the Archangels? Yes. Through what we call ‘oneness’ or At-one-ment’. So, an advanced human being can come in conscious, or rather, self-conscious touch with any order of the Archangels. And he is not just to move about to find these Archangels, because in every human body, there is a Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, a Uriel, and all the Cherubs and the Cherubs working to build the material body in which that human being is living. So, a human body is a small composition of all the universes. The material universe is the material body. The psychical universe is the psychical body. And the noetical universes is the noetical body. So, rightly,
those who knew these things in old times, were calling the human body a ‘microcosm’. And corresponded the microcosm to the macrocosm, which is Absolute beingness and its worlds of the manifestation.
So now we understand life in a better way. Only those who are blind in the mind cannot see what is going on all around them even in the material world, the world of the three dimensions ruled by the Holy Archangels, the Lords of the Elements, under the supervision of the Logos and of the Holy Spirit, manifesting life as phenomena of life. Billions, billions of phenomena of life, from the amoeba, to the galaxy. And everything is living because it is the expression of life.
So, now. We can study our material body. If you ask now, a man in the street, not having good education. What do you know of your material body. ‘Ah me?’ ‘Yeah, you.’ ‘I am I, showing only through my material body.’ ‘no, that’s not you.’ ‘what do you know of your material body of yours? you just use it, walking, moving your hair, getting a skill and doing that and that and that… what do you know?’ He said, ‘seeing the surface of that material body… what do you know of your heart? Your lungs? Of your glands? Of the two lobes of the brain in your skull in your head, what do you know about it? What do you know about the bones, the [banker?], the spleen, the liver? ’tell you… ohhh…you tell so many things…’ ‘do I have really so many things in my body?’ ‘you are wondering that… if I number everything, then you’ll get dizzy…’ what do you know of the number of the bones composing you spine? your hands? your feet? your fingers? You move, you move them, you use them, what do you know about them? Yet. Christ says the hair on your head are all numbered.
And are growing mathematically. By whom? By these Holy Archangels, brothers of yours who have been working and are working and will be working in you material body. Can you come in conscious contact with them?
30’00”
Yes. When you develop that present personality of yours to the standard of the self-consciousness. Not before. Are they aware of us? Definitely they are. How they are not aware of those fellows destroying what they are building day and night. And being obligated to reconstruct, just cure you, cure wounds inflicted on the body. Of course they know.
So, are they pleased? Of our life? Now… whose life? This is the question, whose life? The life in the body is very different to your life, because our body is living independently from our consciousness. Because when you are asleep at night, entering in a state of phenomenon, annihilation without being true…. these Holy Archangels, brothers of yours are working in you body, and they find the time there to cure wounds more quickly. To cure illnesses better. So if you’ll come back… come back? from where?
Somebody asked me the other day… Sir? My greatest desire is to have an exosomatosis. But I said ‘you have it every night, without knowing it. You are chased away from your body during the night in what we call deep sleep, so that the Holy Archangels will do their work without your interference.’ When you say ‘exosomatosis’, you mean conscious, because sub-consciously you do it every night.
Sometime you gain a kind of consciousness and you think you’re seeing a beautiful dream. Or you are under a nightmare, where you are tortured by your own elementals, composing your subconsciousness.
So all these things should be studied. So. We have, apart from our material body, the so-called psychical body, and the noetical body. The psychical body is the body of the emotions, desires, wishes. The way of living daily. And our noetical body is the world of thoughts. All these three bodies, the material body, the so-called psychical body, and the noetical body are composing our present day personality, because our present day personality is an entity now, not only and existence, and entity because it is the reflection of yourself, your real self, expressing a kind of time and space self as a man or as a woman.
So your present day personality is living in the three bodies. But how? Is our present day personality, Mary’s, Ellen’s, George, John… living in the same way? Conscious? Are they conscious of their life? Or do they live sub-consciously. Instinctively. Without knowing the living, without knowing it. So we find what we call the present day personality of man in the various stages of consciousness, and sub-consciousness. And instinct.
35’00”
You can never find two people, men or women, behaving in the same way,
living in the same way, in their bodies. And I said in a lesson, in studying the material body of a man or a woman, you know the material bodies of all men and all women. They are composed of the same organs, they obey the same laws, the nature… but you never know the personality of any man or any woman by studying the personality of a man or a woman. Because we are so different.
So, the present day personality of man is not the outcome of the material body. So it is a new entity. We are not our bodies, and we have to find it out. To find out what or who we are. Start living consciously. Until the present day, most people are living instinctively or sub-consciously. But is not all. Is not enough to live - how do you say - consciously? No.
Now, living subconsciously means - I’ll define it in a different way - living in the material body even without knowing anything about it, move it about, use it, or making very bad use of it, especially in sex. Using it, making bad use of it, that means living instinctively or subconsciously. Consciously is when we can realize that we are not only the body… we are an entity with emotions, desires, likings, and then starting to study our way of living, and how it comes to us.
We find out, sooner or later, that obeying certain emotions, certain feelings, certain elementals composing our subconsciousness, we meet pain. Despair. Disappointment. Especially pain. So we start thinking better now. What do the emotion, are giving me? Love? Love is not an emotion. What we, by mistake, think of that is love, it isn’t love. It is an attraction or a repulsion done by that entity we call our present day personality. And it isn’t love. We make the mistakes that we love. In the course of time, then we start realizing what Love is. And love is our nature as Spirit- Ego- Self- Super-consciousnesses. And that’s our Soul- Super-consciousness - it’s its nature to love. Just it is the shadow of the light, what you call love, and especially in sex.
And what you call love in sex, and in hatred, in jealousy, in envy, in fighting, even in killing. You have it every day all around us in the community.
So, slowly slowly, that present day personality of a man or a woman is to study their behavior in life. They start studying life. They’re aware now of the existence of their emotions, ending into weaknesses.
40’00”
Into enmities. To the feeling of taking revenge. These are the weaknesses in the emotions. Then what do they find out? That the only fault of it is obeying the emotions, and enslaving the mind to the emotions they created this state of things torturing them. Making them think that life manifested in themselves is not a blessing, but a curse. Many even commit suicide, killing their material body, without their [adopting? soul?] Because the material body they are living in themselves, they are not there, they are living there by grace and not by right, yet. Because others are working in the material body. Others are supervising them, and others ‘own’ the body. Not they.
So, by studying the emotions, the way of behavior, and these we succeed, by the exercise I gave you as introspection, or looking within, which is most, most important in the self-development, the self knowing. So, in the course of time, you learn the nature of the elementals - what are the elementals you are projecting and are returning to you, and even mentioned by Christ in the New Testament. So now, you start studying the composition of your present day personality, which in reality is your subconsciousness. Is it all our subconsciousness? Now, if I symbolize the present day personality of a man as an ocean, the whole ocean is the subconsciousness. Only the surface of it we are seeing as your consciousness. What comes from the subconsciousness of the [tale?] in the surface is what you call your consciousness. You’re conscious of… that or that or that. Now one of the studies we’ve made is to be aware, to see what happens in our subconsciousness and what things are coming to the surface. That is again another exercise I have given, to study the nature of the elementals coming in the surface of your consciousness from your subconsciousness.
The other exercise I gave is so that, boldly now, after knowing the nature of the elementals composing your consciousness, your present day personality and your subconsciousness, is to study yourself. And start knowing it. For years and years studying, observing, gaining now, the ability to control and replace emotions and desire, we living more consciously in what we call the fifth dimensional world that means the mental plane. Because for most of the people around us, the noetical body is not yet shaped properly. Which means that people are not using their mind properly. They enslave their mind as thought to serve the emotions. Now you start just to using the mind as the means of study and express
yourself properly.
That means you live more consciously.
45’00”
In the course of years, you find out that you are gaining the power of using now the mind consciously and super-consciously. And by doing so, is the first time you have what I call ‘self-realization’. Then you understand what is…
[end of tape side]
….using the mind. And you reach the state of self-realization. Now you know who you are. A man or a woman? No. An Ego. An I-ness. It is your first conscious approach to yourself the Soul you are. That’s what I call ‘self-realization’. And of course the powers and the abilities of the present day personality, under the influences of the emotions, and the slave-thoughts serving the emotions are very very limited.
And that present day personality of a man or a woman feels weak and unsafe. Not living yet, consciously. Living instinctively and sub-consciously. But now, knowing how to used the MIND, the supersubstance of the MIND, forming it into constructive elementals, then for the first time that man or woman not feeling as a man or as a woman but as the Soul-Ego, they know who they are. For the first time of approaching that stage I call self-consciousness.
Does that mean it’s by? Now, as a man, as a woman, don’t I know myself? Which self? The shadow? What you call self having a male name or a female name is not your self. This is the shadow of yourself. Seeing in a mirror, as I gave to a lesson an example, you make the mistake that that image in the mirror is yourself. It isn’t. ‘But of course it’s him.’ See? It’s mine, because you smile, it smiles, yes you smile and that image smiles, but that image is not yourself.
And if I break the mirror, and you don’t see your reflection there, you are you. Again. And what is God doing all the time? And the Holy Archangels? Not breaking those three-fold mirrors, mirrors for everyone, by passing is over to another state of existence. The first mirror distorting
yourself is the material plane -
50’00”
even, your enchantment to the material body - you don’t know anything about it. And the emotions, and the slave thoughts serving the emotions. Now you start understanding that. Now I know why. I am a being, expressing itself as an entity. And individuality. Now we are wrong. Because I don’t annihilate my entity by being a being, eternal being, by acquiring now what I call my self consciousness. Then what happened? You use the mind creating constructive elementals, and it is the first approach to your brothers the Archangels, who are very ready now to embrace you and instruct you. And love you. And love them, and teach you the secrets of life. In all the universe, and still you in the 5th dimensions. You have another 2 dimensions: the sixth and the seventh dimensions.
Now, from the world of forms, now constructive, you are creating constructive elementals - thought forms - you enter in the world of causes. The world of ideas. That is the world. That is the world of the sixth dimension, and I’m afraid that I’m not allowed to speak more about it. Even, speak about the world of the seventh dimensions. Why not allowing it? The Divine Holy Intelligences decide. Even if I try, you will not be able to understand anything, because what you can understand is by comparison, by knowing something similar to it. But I will tell you, certain laws which are governing these universes. No law is governing the world of the first dimension.
What is the law governing the world of the second dimension? That means the representations. A kind of conception, without motion. Without any vibrations. Study conceptions and you will meet it in the 4th dimension, because the 2nd dimension corresponds to the 4th dimension. And the 3rd dimension to the 5th dimension.
So, in the world of the 3 dimensions, you have the law of gravity. Attraction to a center. Center of the earth, center of any heavenly body, center of the galaxy. So the law there is attraction towards a center. And keeping the balance with a corresponding law of repulsion, and then you find the Divine total wisdom, of balance. You find it everywhere. You find it on the planet. You find it even in the material body, your material body, as the law of metabolism. You have anabolism, that means growing growing growing.
And then you have the law of catabolism, dissolving dissolving, and then you have a balance. Metabolism. Which is under the Holy Brother Archangel Uriel. The balance, in a most wise way. Keeping that balance in the material body.
55’00”
Responsible for the health of the material body, which corresponds just to the law of gravity. Repulsion, attraction and balance. Of course I wish someday that we’ll be taught only [sixes?] by the Holy Archangels. So. Another law in the third dimensional world is that never can two solid objects occupy the same space-place, vibrating the same rate of vibration. That means, being solid. Of course, being solidity, means cannot occupy the same place with the glass moving the [ ] away. This is the law in the worlds of the two dimensions: No two solid objects can occupy the same place.
Now, in the world of the fourth dimensions, space, not place, is annihilated. Many things of the same density can occupy the same place-space without mixing up. So, the so-called psychical world, seven planes and each plane, another seven subplanes, is in there, in the surface of the earth and as I said before, many many kilometers, thousands of kilometers around the planet. That is the psychical body of the earth.
In it, in the 49 subplanes, this is the [ ], many many objects having the same density can occupy the same place-space without being mixed up. This is rather difficult to understand. Yet, you can find it even on the material plane.
Now, in this room, all the broadcasting stations which are on the air now, are existing. It’s a matter of attuning yourself to those vibrations. And you can attune this receiver to certain stations, having a very, very nice symphony of Beethoven. And another near you, getting from the same place-space, here in this room, to hear elections.
And another receiver some where there, you can attune it to another rate of vibrations… all vibrations existing in this room, and hear another talk. Everything is here in this room, but they are not mixed up. This example will make you understand this [ ]. So called psychical plane in all the subplanes, many many things having the same density can occupy the
place space without being mixed up. So, in the place, there is a hell, there is also a paradise. As a place-space, you cannot locate that paradise or that hell here or there. It is a matter of vibration. And I said, that no one in passing over will find himself in any hell or any paradise he’s not already in now. It’s a matter of his psychical body’s vibration. Nobody will catch you and tell you you’ve done that and that and that cast you to that hell. Or embrace you and say here is the paradise, and say ‘oh now, you have done all those good things and you are in that paradise.’
But in passing over to the other side you find yourself exactly where you belong. Because [ ]. Because now we are building our paradise or our hell, even when leaving the material body. And even material world.
60’00”
So the next world is a world of conditions more than a world of material expressions, yet you can find material things having forms… they are worlds of forms obeying conditions now, and not the law of the three dimensions which is never two solid things can occupy the same place. Now of course this is difficult to understand it giving you the lesson. Even it is difficult when I take advanced researchers after the truth there showing them practically these things. Because they are accustomed of the circle of causes on the three dimensional world. It takes some time until you’ll understand the new conditions in the so-called psychical world which I say are more real than the material world.
Because in the material world, the change is so quick, flowers are withering very very easily. Things are changing so quickly. This is not so in the psychical planes, in the various sub-planes.
So the same difference is in the world of thought. The world of thought… yet, that is a world of forms. You see the same things in better light you may say. You are more there in the world of forms and light. In the material plane, we are in the world of forms and darkness, matter, solid. It’s a very difficult world to live in. Believe me. It’s easier and better for advanced entities and Intelligences to live in the other worlds of different dimensions. So life continues, and exists, see my expression, life continues and exists in the worlds of the three dimensions, the worlds of the fourth dimension, in the worlds of the five dimensions. Continues and exists, and in the worlds of the other dimensions, is. And exists. But now there is a separation
between being and existing, that’s why it’s very difficult for me to express to you this difference, between the world of the five dimensions and the world of the four dimensions and so on.
There are greater changes towards Reality. We are going to the worlds of reality. We are living in the worlds of the shadow. Believe me that’s the material world, it’s a world of shadows. The other worlds are more worlds of reality. Shadows, less shadows. But there you are going towards the light.
Life, real life, is in the worlds of light and form. And the cause of light and form right there is the fifth dimensional world. And the worlds beyond that. The sixth dimension, and the seventh dimension. I said I’m not allowed to speak further. We tell you my experiences there, but even if I tell [ ] you will never understand anything outside, and maybe you consider may bring up for an instant.
But yet, this is the world of reality.
Now. We’ll have another three lessons next week. Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday. And we’ll elaborate more on the Elementals, which is a reality. A reality is the noetical plane. A reality is the MIND as supersubstance in the noetical plane which is here and everywhere. Have this in mind.
65’00”
And in you, inside you, so to understand what the Archangels by constructive elementals are doing, constructing the universes all around you, so beautiful and nice…. You’ll understand what you can do if you train yourself to do it, because you are an Archangel. Every one of you is a God and an Archangel. And you’ll find it out in being able to do what they are doing. I’m telling you, they are very ready to help you and accept you and embrace you.
Because what Christ said in the Gospel? Joy is to the Angels in Heaven… and the Kingdom of the Heavens be within you. They are within you. For one who returns. So Joy is to the Angels in your body, in the Kingdom of Heaven within you, for one who as a present day personality returning to its real self, the Ego Self-consciousness. But, as their is joy in the Archangels, there is also grief. Definitely their soul is not just like yours. They are working in your body patiently with great tolerance. But still they have a
grief, if when you - they built - you destroy. So have that in your mind.
So do we cause grief to the workers building our bodies for us to live in, or cooperate with them? So we must have this in our minds - even the material body is the temple of God, says Christ. The material body is the temple of God, that means of the Holy Spirit and of you as an Archangel. And of your Ego, your Ego Self-superconsciousness. And you reach there in course of years, of centuries. But I am telling you that some are already there. [ ] within you. Only have the will to do it. To enter. Because all the time you are out, to the five senses. Have to look within now.
You can start it with the introspection, and develop that present day personality to assimilate itself with your Real Self the Soul Ego Self-consciousness. There is no other way. You cannot neglect and keep your present personality and feel yourself as the Soul, because your present day personality is a Conditional Soul. You cannot find the better words. It’s a part of the soul, which has to be assimilated to your inner, real self.
So, what is introspection exercise? For the newcomers. During the night before going to sleep, bring in your mind - that means bring from your subconsciousness to the surface - an event of the day. What happened during that day. Maybe a discussion with the wife or the children or the husband, as small quarrel or a misunderstanding in the office, in the bazar in the society, everywhere there can be an event which you can bring to the surface. Using now the visualization, which something you must be accustomed to, see with your mind now, everything - the scenery, the persons, the discussions, the behavior
70’00”
the behavior of the other towards you, and now you see yourself as you have behaved under the influence of your egoism. Another step, now you are judging. Now you are studying. You are looking. To come to conclusions. And then you must have something to work with. What I did which I shouldn’t do? What I didn’t do, which I had to do? What I said, which I shouldn’t say? And what I didn’t say, which I should say? Maybe consciously cause, I shouldn’t do. Say a hard word… you could say kind words. And maybe you have slapped, you could turn and embrace a loved one. And you will find out that you are judging your behavior under the
influence of your present day personality egoism. Now you are not that! Because now you can reason. Now you are yourself as a self-study, instructing the present day personality how to behave.
Maybe after two or three days practicing this exercise, you’ll behave in the same way. Be under the influence of the present day personality, pay no notice. I repeat it, with the new circumstances, the new behavior I am studying and say but what were my decisions? What happens now? You start distinguishing yourself from your egoism. Finding that that egoism of yours is not you. This is the lesson to be learned. Slowly, slowly put under order that existence - not entity - in your present personality - we call egoism. It is not you, it is a different thing. Your ego with the egoism creation of time and space circumstances, and a collection of elementals. In this way you are studying the nature of the elementals composing your present day personality.
This exercise of introspection - or looking within - is most, most precious, in developing the present day personality to be clean and to be assimilated to your real self. When I said in a lesson that many eastern groups are giving certain meditations. Most unecessary, useful for some time, but if you continue in that you are going round and round and round without any gain. We have what we call the valuable meditations reaching to a certain purpose. This what we call the introspection.
Now, the other meditations, and concentration, not mentioning anything about observation, which you are using it, that means being on the alert all the time, nothing could escape your attention… you reach to certain conclusions. You change your personality so that it will be in a state to be assimilated to your inner self. That’s all.
I heard a friend of mine, he had passed on after some years. He was studying with the Rosicrucians and as he revealed to me he said ‘many thousands of pounds of donations to each [ ] and that and that group’, very enthusiastic about the course,
75’00”
and his monographs, and the years… years of study. We were hidden, in a room, and I wanted just to give him a lesson. I told him ‘look here friend, what I understand is, you have gained nothing… nothing at all from your
studies. So many years and [ ] to the amount of money you have spent.’ He saw me and he said, ‘Look here, I was… I had a better opinion Sir Daskale about you, but what I’m understanding is that you are stupid.’ I said, “thank you, are you sure I am stupid?”. And ‘where you was?’ he started shouting… “I am provoking you and you have fallen into the trap… yes I am right in telling you you have not gained anything you should gain from your studies. Because you have learned meditation, visualization and many many many things. Even he succeeded to move with thought some objects from one place to the other. And he told me what he could do, these feats of telekinesis. But you have not succeeded to control yourself and find yourself I said.
He said, ‘what… you are right now, you are right! Because you would have done so [ ]. Yes, I have fallen in that trap and thank you very much. Now I go to my lesson, what must I do?” Introspection! Analyzing your behavior. Analyzing the nature of your emotions, your thoughts and starting using your thoughts as REASON now. “Yes, really I have learned many, many things now, but I didn’t learn the most important.” Now I don’t say that the systems are not teaching something true [ ]. But is that the best? For outside persons our system… this is the best way. Reaching the self-realization. They are using the self-realization without explaining more about it.
I have some yogis coming to Cyprus on their way to London. Talking with them, well I called them in different stage of advancement. They have asked me then to create a system in India, but I say no, you have enough there. That’s enough call it. Just go a step forward, and you find that way. Take a step only forward, to call the point ‘self-realization’. You can find it in the Veda. Believe me that in the Veda [ ] that I know something. I have been a Hindu for many many centuries. There are no sutras I have never been taught. And then just correcting with this matter.
They call themselves Masters. They are not. They like in English swami, or Avatar, or an ‘undying soul’. We don’t want these titles, because the main goal is to get free from the time and space personal egoism. To reach self-realization. Now they can step one more step forward and they can find this. All these truths are mentioned in the Vedas. In the Upanishads, and in the Holy Books. Not in Bhagvahad Gita, for which, I’m against it. It speaks about war and karma and many many other things which are not acceptable to the Christian doctrine.
Yes, now. You have questions. I know many of you against them from your thoughts. But Luther has studied much of the wisdom of as could… make one step forward! Towards self-realization.
80’00”
Analyze yourselves, be sincere with yourselves, see you catch your ignorance from the hair and shaking it and say no… I am I and you are not that.
Yea?
Q: In the last lecture, you referred to the ‘causal body’ could you please explain this?
D: What I said is that it is difficult to speak about the rewards of the 6th dimension, that’s the causal one. Besides if I explained to you what is the causal body, you don’t have some things so you understand. If I tell you that the causal body, that is your Ego Spirit self consciousness which is everywhere, what does it mean ‘everywhere’? Most powerful God everywhere, through oneness or at-one-ment with the Infinite Beingness and the Logos. What does that mean? It’s the truth. But, what do you understand of it? Unless you reach that stage? It is as if you are asking me now what is something - salt. What’s salt? What’s salt then? If I get books and tell you that H1 is doing this and that, you say ‘oh! you make me feel tired!’ You’ll not be able to understand anything. How shall I make you understand what is something… salt. I tell you - put your finger on the salt and put your finger on your tongue. I ask you, do you know what’s salt now? Definitely yes! Now I know. In which other way can I explain to you what is something salty? How can I do it? Unless you reach that stage of ability in your present day personality with our soul ego consciousness, entering your self-consciousness into super-consciousness, and then there… now I put you the question, you know what salt is. Self-confident… because you will know.
Another way of learning…but I have shown you the way. Introspection and constantly working in serious meditation, concentration, observation and analyzing your emotions, your thoughts, becoming the master of those elementals you have created and you are creating. This is the way.
Yes.
Q: If elementals return to the cosmic consciousness to re-energize, isn’t it better to dissolve them?
D: You can never dissolve them. It’s not possible to kill them or dissolve them. Once created an elemental lives eternally in its own nature, so you can never dissolve any elemental. But, you can disenergize an elemental from you and cast it to the cosmic consciousness. Now. What are elementals? We gave a lesson. These elementals are being created in centuries back, and they remain. The elemental, group elemental, of adultery. Of killing. Of gambling. Of stealing. So many elementals. Now they are group elementals. Vibrating in a different way of vibration. Where are they? In the psychical plane, that means in the surface of the earth and many many thousands of kilometers around here. There are there. You are in them. You are in all those elementals. Of evil, of good.
So what it happens, when you revitalize an already existing elemental in the group elemental? By giving it attention, by vibrating at that rate of your emotions vibration. Giving it attention, you vitalize it. You energize it in yourself. It starts to dominate over us. Now, how to disenergize an elemental?
85’00”
By not paying attention to it anymore. Try to forget it. And get disinterested about it. You disenergize it, and it enters in the group elemental of its own kind and nature. Which [ ] where. You understand what it is. You can never dissolve and elemental. Have it in your mind. Once created, all through the centuries, you are living in this ocean of elementals, moving in them, it is a matter of rate of vibration.
It’s up to your choice [ ] to any evil elemental or good elemental.
Q: How did the idea of the evil eye this seems to be serious elementals. The idea of the evil eye which exists in Cyprus and other places… how does this fit into the idea of elementals… is it a conscious elemental? Is it a group elemental?
D: Yes definitely! We are in it. You get it, and you cast it. [ ] it will come back to you again.
Q: It’s a subconscious thing, right, I mean, you’re not aware that you’re throwing an evil eye to anybody.
D: Don’t reenergize it, cast it, because it will return to you. This is in the group elemental of envy. Of jealousy. “Why that fellow has that thing and I don’t have it?” It’s existing already, all around. We are in the ocean of elementals, but we should never be afraid of them. If we don’t attune ourselves to the rate of their vibrations, they cannot affect us.
Look here, I’ll put it in a different way. A piece of iron, if you touch it for a while with electricity, it will give you a kick. Because that’s in the iron, the nature of it, to get the electricity. If you have a piece of crystal or of glass, touch that wire without anything. That glass is not receiving it. Be yourself that glass. And get what’s good and not what’s evil. So it depends upon your nature, and your vibrations, and attune yourself to those vibrations, and revitalize or reenergize them.
[end of recording]