1990.03.01 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
Our Father who are in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, forgive our debts as we forgive them the debtors against us, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever.
God of life, love and mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truths, and clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen.
01’18”
In many previous lessons, we spoke about the truth, the reality. The truth, the reality is that the Infinite Beingness is in the eternal now. The everlasting now. Also, that Infinite Beingness, the church’s God the Father, also exists, is and exists, to different now states, is, is everlasting. Exists, or manifested, to exist, is in what we call time and space.
So, God, Infinite Beingness is, and exists, as the Logos, the manifestation. And also is, and exists, as the Holy Spirit. Now are only these three states being and existing, or are there more? Maybe there are many many more other expressions. But the human intelligence, through the human brains, cannot understand more than these three states, stages and not conditions.
And, I say, these three are enough. Now, what is in the Absolute Beingness is the Absolute Beingness life. Life everlasting. But what’s life? Life as it is, nobody can understand or conceive, yet the Absolute Beingness is. And we can understand it through the Absolute Beingness expressions.
This explanation must make us understand that. The nature of the Absolute Beingness in being and existing is the total wisdom. Now what’s total wisdom, we must analyze it more. What can be total wisdom? Harmony. Mainly, we can understand the total wisdom is seeing harmony in everything,
05’00”
the balance, in everything. And on the material plane we can understand
this studying the circles of possibilities, the unchange laws, causes, governing the universes, all the universes, not only the material universe. So, the total wisdom can to some extent be understood by the human intelligence. The absolute nature of the Absolute Beingness as God the Father, and also, the Logos, to be manifestation.
Now, the total wisdom, to some extent we can understand it. How? By studying and seeing things and having the ability of understanding. Studying these things, we see that, there is something dynamical, {par food? [other voice] what is dynamical? dynam…. as we said dynamic}
So, there we meet, something dynamic. That’s the nature in the worlds of existence, of the Holy Spirit, also of the Logos, but, its more manifested as the Holy Spirit. Somebody is saying me “the Holy Spirit is not having the total wisdom.” Of course, since everything is done through the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit expressing the circle of possibilities which is the total wisdom, but now in a dynamic way. The word I’m using is dynamical written like…
So, this is what we can understand. Let’s talk about God the Father, the Absolute Beingness. The Absolute Beingness as the Logos, the manifestation, and the dynamic state, which in the Holy Spirit. What else, we can observe? And study? The beings in the Absolute Beingness. The Absolute Beingness is not defined. But a being can be defined. Now what’s a being in the Absolute Beingness? An eternal, everlasting life. Now so, in this way, you understand the multiplicity of the Infinite Beingness.
The same way, a human body has [me-tails?], we are not show this, never mind, blood cells, so in the Absolute Beingness, the multiplicity of the Absolute Beingness, are all those gods, the beings, eternal, everlasting who have never been born, are, and who never cease to exist or are annihilated. As such beings are all Archangelic orders, and so are we, human beings. I said, in a lesson that every human being is an Archangel. Is a god. You said the words, by Christ, “I say unto you, you are gods and sons of the Almighty”. The very words, of Christ, in Greek. Because Christ was speaking
10’00”
the Greek language, the Aramaic language, and sometimes in the Latin language of the Roman empire of that time. He said “[ehwoah-e-bon-e-meen-sa-ee-estae-ded-say-ee-eb-cist-obanmech]” and thats a definite statement of what we believe. Of what we believe, stated, by Christ. But whose Christ? It was Jesus Christ of the rabbi Joseph. [he-bord-me?] consider him a human being who had lived before 2000 years, walking the [world?] in Palestine as any other human being, eating and living in the same way that everybody was living. Yes, that’s true. But Jesus Christ was also a perfect man.
And also, what we believe of Jesus Christ of Joseph, that he is the son of God. I don’t say he was the son of God, because I don’t speak in the illusions of time. Because he is also, now, the son of God. Yes, in a very very beautiful body, and enjoying perfect health, he was the light given. He would have come just crippled, but human. That’s Joshua. Body, just like our body.
How is our body built now, by the grace of God again? By the union of a man and a woman. Making love. And blessed, to make a man and a woman co-creators with Him, the Absolute Beingness. Which means, this way of coming to the world is also a great miracle. Life is a miracle. Yet, the material body of certain entities to be such as to stand the great waves of Holiness, [you’d-be-defered?] so certain people were [nord?] by what you call immaculate conception. Not the union of a man and a woman. That was the immaculate conception of Saint John the Baptist, Saint John the Evangelist, Virgin Mary, because they were not only human, they were Archangels of the highest orders, who came down, as an expression of a Divine love and mercy. So, we have got to call Joshua. That was Jesus Christ so the body of Jesus Christ was not just exactly as ours. Because Jesus Christ the man now, was a God-man. Not Man-god. God-man.
Which is the difference between a God-man and a Man-god?
15”00”
Only one of us is God-man, Joshua. God-men, one. Man-gods? The Buddha. Any man can do, who reached his inner state through incarnations. Joshua had never been incarnated as a human being before. And never came, after [previous selection?] in the ascension. In a human body selection, down here. That means to be born and live as a
human being. Well, was he not all that time after the ascension until now materialized somewhere on the planet? Materialized, coming as a man with human body even shake hands?
He did that after his resurrection. Materialized in body. Since then, till now, I tell you he has materialized thousands of bodies and presented himself everywhere on the planet. And many have seen him, and touched him, and got his blessings. Because enough, if human beings have the art of materialization and dematerialization, work himself, who do do that, are those people, all through the centuries, who show him, mean Jesus, Joshua, near them, feeling them, touching them, touching him, were liars? No.
But there is here something one should note. First, they should not have in their mind, that they were the only humans [tray-boffed?], because they are not separate this in the sight of God. So, they have been honored, yet, not the only ones to be honored. i can see him, myself. But I don’t have the claim, to say that, I am the honored one who could see, even in the material form, God. You’ll not be deceived.
So, even in the future, if that’s his will, he can materialize. To be present, he showed me, to materialize, is a different thing, but to be present, it [it’s sure?] he stated that “where there are two or three in my name, I am amongst them”. He said that. He’s here now because we speak of him. “Where there are two or three in my name, I am amongst them.” And here, and within us. Yes, here.
He will vibrate to his own vibrations, and we can feel him, and see him. But do we vibrate, to that rate of his vibrations? Here [are], all the broadcasting stations, I may have boxes here, and radios, these vibrations are inside these empty boxes, or so, in the radios. Can we receive these vibrations existing in this room now? Yes, you will have the means to attune that radio to those vibrations. You can hear. It’s not only to be here but to be
20’00”
able to attune to those vibrations. Then, for us it will be a reality. Otherwise, all those stations and the vibrations of all those stations are here, they are in [he-gar-et?] box there, in this case, here. This we know,
something they’re in again, so it’s a matter of vibrating. And how a human being can vibrate, attune his vibrations, to those vibrations of higher intelligences. And can human beings really attune themselves to higher vibrations? Of course. By what we call attunement.
This is something each human being must get through what we call deep meditation, concentration and observation. And, realization. People are praying. Why they are praying? For what reason they are praying? To ask from God something? To bring to the notice of God their wishes, their desires and their thoughts? is that why people are praying?
I tell you, the time you think about something, he knows is. No need to shape your wishes into words. And repeat and repeat and repeat words and say prayers to know what you are in need of.
What is the aim of [ex-deo?] and any prayer? Is God willing or feels pleased if we pray to him? Maybe, but why? Because in this way we can attune ourselves to him and get his blessing, what does it mean his blessing?
What you have is “give us this day our daily bread?” God doesn’t know that we are in need, daily, of bread? He does. Whether we ask or we don’t ask. He’s giving us our daily bread. But when we say the Lord’s Prayer, for our own sake to attune ourselves to him, and to convince ourselves that he loves us. So a prayer is just the means of attuning, to some extent, ourselves, with the higher realities. For our own benefit, personal benefit.
So, now, what is the Logos? Why is Jesus Christ the Logos? Here, in us, not ‘within’ us, in us, everywhere. Now what’s that everywhere? What we can understand by the word ‘everywhere’? The planet? The solar system? The galaxy? Space and all the galaxies in it? This is only the material plane. Everything solid, and material, what we call matter. When I say ‘everywhere’ I mean also in the psychical worlds. Not in places,
25’00”
but in places conditions. [Correct me often using those words?] Also, if everywhere means the higher and [God?]-mental worlds, not the worlds of
existence. And of the beingness, in itself.
So we must not just imagine God, of Joshua the Logos, or Higher Intelligences, the orders of the Archangels, as something to our measures. This is what is wrong. Or to blame as long as we live in a material body using a handful of sand that we call the brain, tuned, to claim that we become that majestic existence. Why do I say that? Because a devil in us, call it [ley-kim-sahn?] egoism using the mask of the present day personality, a name, and a form, wants to deceive other people that he’s different to what he really is.
And every intelligent man, researchers of the truth, has to kill that monster, demon, in him, we call egoism. And this egoism, this devil, [have-got-tooms-e-d-gospect?], may present itself as an Angel of Light. Beware. Now, I predict, in a more realistic way, we know that every living form around us, of the form of life, is in need of a form, shaped on the circle of possibilities, of that kind of manifestation of that kind of life. From the amoeba, to the calyx [galaxie?], so more form is needed. And we shape that, so that we have a manifestation. We must have the means of that manifestation, and the means of that manifestation is the mind. Not the brain, the mind.
Now, what’s the mind? The mind of course, you don’t ever use spirit. And the mind of course is not the Logos. So at the Logos, and the Holy Spirit to be manifested, the one, as self consciousness and the other as consciousness, in a dynamic way, they use the Mind. Mind is not God, it’s Divine, but not God. And the Mind is everywhere. In all the planes, in all, in all the universes. All the universes are built by means of the Mind, by the Creators, the Creator, in different expressions. The Logos, the Holy Spirit, as a total Wisdom, total Power and total Love. These three natures of the Infinite Beingness we can conceive.
So the Mind is in the total Wisdom, and exists as the means of manifestation and manifested. So, now we can just know [er?] [Werner?] just mentioned how the
30’00”
microcosm is built. And the various universes are built. So, it’s our duty to study them and there are means we can study them and know them and
learn them, but we come down to the human being. We find a human being now. Living on the material plane, as a body, yes, nice, because everything built up by what is good. [harmo-needing?] Do we study the material body? We have to study what it is, how it works, what is going on in the material body. Why? What we study? Who we study? Who, we?
The present day personality living in it, studied because that personality maybe knows very little, and sometimes nothing [adorn?] the material body in who is that personality living. [unint.]
Yet, all the material bodies of all human beings living are super-valued and kept in good health, by the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit, with the means of Mind. Now what’s Mind, again? A grain of sand is solid Mind. Everything is Mind. Don’t say total Wisdom. The combination of all these other operations we call mind, to give us the various dimensions, and the various combinations, to see living forms around us.
What we come to know by studying? The total Wisdom even on the material plane. And what else, we would observe now? That we, each one of us, is a Beingness and Existence, [boss?], getting impressions from outside through his five senses on his material body and in his body. Being born as a child and growing, growing, growing, we live subconsciously. We store subconsciously our experiences, in a part of our selves both material body and outside we call subconscious, and in this way we create what we call a present day personality.
You are given a name, way of living, receiving impressions, and creating our present day personality. Yet, if I put you the question now, what’s your present day personality? What do you know of seeing, touching, feeling? [fij?] of course I touch them and I feel them, and I know, they exist there they are solid, what is, how is that? Happen to the question you touch, how touch? [unint?] Five fingers a palm, my hand, five stems, my hand, and I touch, why you have five fingers? Who did say that we have to have five fingers? You? Who decide that? That we have this material form? Your material body, you? What do you know of it? You have two eyes. Front, just on your face, why you have two eyes? And a nose with two nostrils and a tongue and of course, two ears, why? What are the senses? You have built them?
You are using them now.
35’00”
Using them in what way? Maybe not fully, but using it. Who made them for me and for you? Who has built that material body in the form it is now and you call it ‘my body’ and you think that it’s you? Yet you don’t know why to do, and what is your body. And you have to know how.
Now it is your first contact to the Mind, to the Mind. Through thinking. Now, put to the question “what’s thinking?” What does it mean you think? What happens? In observing things around you, you want to know them, to get them, to touch them. Why? What for? And something more, yes, things are coming to your notice. You see them, you touch them, what else? You want them. Why? You want to have them. To own them, why? And you start living on the material plane, on the planet, how? When is this and that and that yours? To have it. To call it yours. Why? Because we need it to live. Everything we call ours and we want it, is it necessary to have it so that we live.
Now what we have to do, to use again, thought, or inspiration. Is that we want, distinguishing and using, and again a hammer, who can use, without knowing it. That thing we call mind, and formulate it, make it into thoughts, concrete thoughts, and live, we live, all of us live, in this way. Did we care just to study? Why, what and how we live?
I think this is the du[ty?] of every living being to do. Now again, why? Because a human being can use the mind and thought, as a self-conscious being, which makes him different from the animals, and the plants. Because he expresses a higher state of the phenomenon on life. This is why, should we live like plants or animals, or like human beings, then OK, do we live like human beings? Or sometimes we use them like devils. Now could be [hoch-eh-deh?]
A nature of dissolution, and disharmony, in nature, maybe a force in the world of separateness in illusion. Why?
Some of you are “tell me all those why, why, why,” you got tired of your why and why.
40’00”
Yet you must become a burning ‘why?’ To pierce through that why, to the reality. There is no other way to pierce from the illusion to the reality. There is not another way to find yourself and as a human being, and I say present day personality, and as, god. So, these burning why, why, must be your existence. You do it subconsiously already, why and why, just to satisfy the needs of your egoism. Why not use that ‘why’ in a better way, in acquiring the knowledge of the reality.
Then again how? We jump from the why to the how. It is a necessary step you cannot remain on the first and [prove?], what is the second step? And when this ‘how’ becomes again ‘what’, you need another ‘how’. So. [two-treen-brothers?] What. So. By using the Mind, to solve the ‘why’, to give a satisfactory answer to that ‘why’, any ‘why’, on any matter. How, using the Mind. Why, to learn what’s the Mind. How? By visualization, concentration, meditation. Why?
Now I show you a little ladder, and say ‘come’. Go out. Here are the steps and you have just to use your own feet to ascend the stairs of knowledge and self-realization. You say “what, is there light? Can I walk in darkness?”
Much light now. We have the physical light and we have other forms of light. [Cand-es-et?] we said, of course, but to note [wise?], see the light and know that it emanates from the sun. The sun is telling you subconsiously “I am the light on the material plane”. But then I hear within me, the Logos saying “I am the light of the world”. Now it’s light, it’s not light. Of course, I tell you, Mind, so under the light of Mind, we come to what we call knowledge and realization. [unint.] To know what’s this, the essence of things.
So, one of the duties of the researchers after truth is to learn the nature of Mind. As formless super substance, to learn the way of using it, making it into form, thought-forms, and emotional forms, distinguishing in the quality of these emotional and thought forms, which, really, he needs to build up his present day personality. Inducing that what we call elementals. We classify now the elementals into two: the emotional thought-forms, and the sub-thoughts.
45’00”
What are the emotional thought-forms? Every desire, every wish, everything which vibrates and we get the notice of the existence of something and we want to have it, creates an emotional thought-form. And the emotional thought-forms, to the common man, are the 80 percent of his present day existence as present day personality. What now are these thought-forms? These emotional forms have at least 3/4 the emotion, and 1/4 the thought of it. So we enslave the Mind to the emotion. But again, emotion is not Mind, vibrating in a lower rate of vibrations? Yes but we’re enslaving the higher vibrations to the lower. And so, what happens, in having an emotional thought-form, a wish, a desire?
Any emotion and any thought tend to get a form, whether we see that form, or we don’t see it. That form is creates on the root of the nose, here, on this energy center here, not bigger than the head of a pin. This corresponds to the spermazoa [determining?] the circle of possibilities of it’s….{tape side ends}
47’46” {tape resumes}
So, that little spot, not bigger than the head of a pin, created at the root of the nose, in this etheric center here, is projected, to place and condition, when it’s out, and within, out especially, gets the natural form.
If you want to have a car [inez?] car and you have seen a car, where it’s as small as the head of a pin, [ea-at?], but when it comes out, it gets the natural form, of a car. Or of a big construction. Is that elementals living? Does it have a life of it’s self or no? Yes. Can that elemental think? Has it the power of thinking? Yes. But the thought of that elemental can never exceed the thought of the creator, the fellow who projected it.
What’s the nature now of this elemental? It vibrates. If it is the 3/4 of the existence is emotion, vibrations from vibrations, and very little thought, Mind in it, now we can guess, how it will be, the behavior of that elemental. Such elementals Christ was calling them meaningless, [unint.]
50’00”
Christ is mentioning them in the gospel. When that elemental goes
making in the natural size that thing, outside, they turn again, as small as the head of a pin, yet, strong. Because that forms, what we call, the circle of possibility.
Christ says it carries seven others similar to it. It returns to the human being, to be re-energized, have more energy, go out, come back, go out, come back.
How many such elementals we create every day, every hour? But how do you do anything and not create such an elemental? So, every word, every wish, because they have not goals, without having behind them , every thought is creating an elemental. Vibrating to certain rate of vibrations, and attuned to similar elementals all around us. So this is the nature of what we call ’thought-forms’.
But I said something that the intelligence of every elemental is similar to the intelligence of the creator, not better. Now I come to the ‘gods’ of the past, or to be centuries back, as far back as you can remember, too many civilizations, many many places on the planet, man always had a need to adore a god, or gods. Why? Loving god? No. Because he felt that he should rely on a higher intelligence for his fate, out of need. He needed the gods. So you find so many gods, created by man. Did these gods live? All elementals are living.
Do they live now? Definitely they are living now. In the cosmic consciousness. Can one come in touch with them? With Kali? With Joph? With March with Mepholi? With Venat, and all that? Can we come in touch with them? Of course we can. How? You can attune ourselves to the vibrations of those gods. It’s a matter of attuning yourself to those vibrations. And I said that those elementals, those ‘gods’, even saints, have just the intelligence of their creator. Of course, the human beings are advancing, becoming better and better that means using the thought more reasonably, to know more about the truth, and being deceived less by the illusions. From a century to the other century. So. this disenergizes certain parts of the past, man has, now, different needs.
55’00”
Because all those ‘gods’, had the characteristics of the fellows who created them. They will [eh?] other things of human sacrifices. Later, of animal
sacrifices. Later, just flowers. Something [level?]. So while people see more clearly, leaving behind them illusions, they create such living, not being existences, to serve his needs.
Now I come to a point one should be very, very careful. How many Jesus Christs we have now? Do we have many? [we said?] Too many. Everyone has created his Jesus Christ [an any helling? to his menschious?] Yes, even the group, the groups, Christian groups, are creating such elementals now to their measures. If you ask the question to a fellow “Who is Jesus Christ?” How he understands Jesus Christ, to describe him. He can’t. If he hates Jesus Christ, he hates his enemies. He doesn’t feel that Jesus Christ said on the cross ‘forgive them father for they don’t know what they are doing’. Said, “Did Christ say that?” Did [Kiriali?] say that? I said that from a priest.
He wanted a hateful Christ to punish those who don’t go on Sunday to the church. [a culpet-tree-hem?] So if you close the sea-side, he fancies a Christ where he created, an elemental of Christ to his own measure. I heard the preacher that day, telling me that Jesus Christ is speaking to him. Definitely he is speaking to him, his Jesus Christ, his elemental. Of course. Now, groups of people, some English people, got him, a general. Onward Christian soldiers, marching as to war. With the cross of Jesus, going on before. You have heard the hymn, and they sing it in the big church. They do [to] hymn, I don’t know if they do the same in America? Do they? {yes} …absolutely… general.
Who give the dimension of this Jesus? Who is the Lord of Love? Is there anything common? Now.
The Greek Orthodox, fighting the Bulgarian Orthodox, belonging to the same dogma. Or begging Virgin Mary, calling her a general, seeing her fighting against the Bulgarians. Many many of these persons saying ‘we saw Virgin Mary fighting in the front, I can’t [immu-hurt?]’, and many Bulgarians saying they saw Virgin Mary fighting the Greeks. Did we have two Virgin Marys? One on the side of the Greeks, and the other on the side of the Bulgarians? They both were praying to her. So, I must be just, a little bit reasonable.
But I said in many lessons to all researchers after truth that they will have as their best friend the New Testament. And not imagine, according to
their own measures, Christ, and all the higher intelligences, wrongly. Happily, it’s frequently [toots?],
60’00”
stated, especially stated by Johanna, Saint John the evangelist, there. So any Christ, not to those measures, is to their measures.
So, we should be very careful in what now, in how we make use of the Mind. What we create, by means of the Mind. And believe me, if the animals who are authorized to use the mind the same way we human beings are authorized to use it, maybe they wouldn’t do so much bad use of the Mind as we do. Fighting each other, killing each other, and even [hunching?] that the Divinities are favoring our Christ.
Now, if you read Homer, Illiad, and that of Ulysses, the clairvoyance, at that time, I mean the Greeks fighting the Trojans, who are seeing the gods fighting, in their favorite with the others and the other side were seeing Set and the other gods fighting the Greeks. These are mentioned in Homer’s books. Were they seeing these gods fighting? I’ll call them god-elementals. Yes. They were seeing them.
So. Who is now responsible for the creation or re-energizing of such elementals? Just to serve our purposes? Not we. Yes, we have just a reason now. With our ignorance, even in this way, you want us to make our position lighter. I don’t accept.
We have been given the authority to use the Mind, and the ability to use visual if we want to, so there is not excuse. There is not again excuses. Human beings today, sons of God, allowed to use the Mind, the Divine Mind, to serve them, should realize their responsibilities in not making bad use of the Divine ethers we call Mind. Everyone is responsible for his thoughts and the way he is thinking and acting. So he will call himself human, and not a devil.
Now, is there punishment in making bad use of the Mind in creating elementals? Of course there is. But God is not punishing. The Absolute Beingness is not punishing. The Lord of Love is not punishing. Stated clearly I came to save the world from their ignorance and not to criticize, because in criticizing, is a kind of punishment. So what is not punishing,
but punishment it is. Who should [ee-bang?] what we call punishment? And why should we call this result of the contravention of the law a punishment? If we call that punishment, there, it is what we call ‘self-punishment’.
65’00”
And in every thought, good or evil, there is maybe both a reward, and a punishment. When you start studying all these things, you’ll find it. So is, a human being, as present day, beingness, punishing itself? Yes. Because that’s the law. All contravention cannot remain like that. But balance, or harmony, must return. But it cannot debalance or disharmony which is in the Divine wisdom. There is an effect we may call punishment. But we should not think that the Absolute Beingness, or the Logos or even the Holy Spirit are punishing. I gave an example the other day. Here is the law of gravity, the law of gravity is most necessary to keep all and everything as it is on the material plane now. And life on the the planet. So, this law of gravity exists. It’s a law. Cannot violate this law of gravity. I said no, just neglecting this law of gravity or not knowing it even. Gets a stone. Throws it up, then her son [crams?] but [enn?] strikes on his head and after excruciation, bleeding, and his hand touching the wound and ‘who punished me?’ God didn’t punish you, did God punish because the stone came on his head, he said “I was bleeding”.
[unint.]
Should God, for his sake, not to have a stone on his head, that moment, stop the law of gravity? What would happen? Everything would be destroyed. [Menoch?], does what is says not to have the stone he has thrown up come at his head. What must then be known? By observation and study, the laws existing. And the laws should not be violated. Is that the word, violated? So. And we should learn, how not to do that. There is not such a thing as punishment, but we put in now more scientifically, we must know the laws of cause and effect.
And there is a relative cause and a relative effect. It’s as simple as that. We should study physics, to know the laws on the physical plane. Now we see some people in the mental hospital, here and there. They are violating psychical laws. You have the relative effect, a cause has a relative result of effect. Is God punishing those people? Are they [?]
punished? We may say that also, but why? Self-punished.
i’ll go a step further. [How were their metaphysics? but accept forgiven?] Let me… knowing the reality and not repeating it? Just call that repentance. Maybe, it’s how people understand things.
70’00”
Now, if you’re calling it, is repentance, confession, and the church is putting it necessary, yes, it is as necessary as a self-psychoanalysis. Just with the same result. No need to have a priest there standing. [unint.] And of course confession and for all forgiveness stupidity. [humanibos?] Instead of him, a loving brother psychoanalyst can do much more. What is really, the aim of that? To realize the truth. So, there is some punishment and some positive. Forgiven this way, the church this way.
So, did Christ mention anything about these things? Know the truth and the truth will liberate you. When you know the truth, the truth is liberating everyone. All kinds of illusions and conditions. So, I say that, the most important thing, is to know the truth. Now I have both why, and how. When need them both. Why and How. Why know the truth. Because, that is which will liberate us. How. By self-realization, self-examination. And knowing the self. As the thinker, and you are to impose the decisions. From that kind of work, knowing the truth.
So the work of a researcher after the truth, is most important for what we call self development of psychical ability. There is not any other way. The self-analysis. Now what’s the self, again? What’s the self-analysis? You spoke about the self. But I see the self and [now on?] devise stages. With a central point.
What is the [reeve?] telling us now? The explanations of that self, or the central point? The real self. Let’s say it another way. We have a point. Then I have five or six [separs?] of around the same point with the same center of [us?]. But the circumference of each center of each circle has a different radius. Fine, five circles with the same center. What is reality telling us? The circles, or the centers? What is common in these five or six circles? Bigger and bigger, having the same center? The center or the circle? The cause or the expression?
For this self, the consciousness we call self consciousness, whether it is the self consciousness
75’00”
of the present day personality, as sinful and [teepee?], or a [truif?] identity again, present day personality, self-conscious personality, or why that present day personality extends it’s experience and its expressions to be soul-ego-self consciousness, what you say, we said that, to reach the ego-spirit super self consciousness, I have one helper. The ego. And ego, when that ego is of a sinful fellow there, is god. Is good to call it self-consciousness. [conbatis?] is the self consciousness and not how it is expressed. now, what really matters is self-consciousness. Whether we say “I am George”. Or whether you say “I am I”.
You got the word George, the present day personality and you return to that inner nature. Or whether you say “I am god”. What counts is that “I-am”. Now what’s I-am? Should I use the word “am” to realize what I [-er?] Can I not enter in my I-ness without defining it in time? And in condition? There is of importance, “am” is a characteristic. Is not [ego?] It’s time, and expression. I think I’m taking to a very deep point. No, I want just to mean that what is comes is the happiness, your ego. The [heuga?] said to find god, in you, that means in the present day personality, you find it in your I-ness. Which that I-ness, you should respect.
Not allow, the present day personality, color it, or make it dirty. You can say “I am not a good man”. “I am idiot”. You don’t have the right, that I-ness, to color it, in a dirty way. Because you have to respect your inner nature. The god, you are, not the god who is “in you”. Here the god is in the present day personality, it is part of the present personality, but the present personality is not you. The same way [to amma care-fol is?] is not you. So when we center our self-consciousness, to this I, I-ness, we must see it pure, clean, god-like.
Now, any questions?
If there is no punishment coming from a God outside or something, there is no reward coming from a God outside of things?
What’s this?
[repeats, unint.]
If I thank, I have to thank the god coming within me? Yea, Is it correct?
But who’s a god outside me, can affect you through your god within? But that’s a new “I”. So the reward is from within. Also the punishment is from within. The contravention is
80’00”
outside and from outside,
contravention?
Contravention, going back at the law, because we do things, or don’t, say, so the contravention is from outside, and of course, the balancing of things must be outside us. That’s why you can [mach?]. Because things, debts, done on the material plane, have to be settled on the material plane. Not another plane. Psychical causes, psychical results but material causes have material solutions. Because there is not divisions for the reincarnation to let.
So either the punishment or the reward is [en de zem holers an metis adocheckos before?]
Yes.
You say that people have created their own Christs with elementals.
Yes.
And what is the way to get to the Absolute Christ?
Attuning yourself to the Absolute Christ.
Is attuning praying to the Absolute Christ, that’s attuning to the Absolute Christ?
I think one can attune himself to the perfect Christ, by realizing that he is
love as the Christ is. And are that way. Now, how you’ll present real Christ on earth. And believe that that elemental, called Christ, never created or created by others, is not the perfect Christ. By the quality of your love. By the quality of the love you are teaching. By the quality of love you are expressing. Because we know who is Christ, now. Who was Christ? And what Christ will be in the future? Perfect, impersonal love.
[teugut sto is that?] Any kind of love we experience, which is not impersonal, or characterized in that way, or in that way, a light colored by light again, [unint.] I don’t say it’s bad. It may not be so pure, not bright, but it’s light again. And people, believe me, they do need it. Now I’ll put another question.
We have here this room. You will have just a lamp, a very strong light, you have that lamp. Can we withstand the light, our eyes? Some say, a lady, will come and say, no, I better cover this light with this rosy cloth. That is milder light, better for everybody to sit a be in comfort. Against light! What colored light. Light to the measures of those who are here present. I don’t say that’s not good. But I said that’s not the perfect light. But again [ahead?], if people can stand the perfect light. So, if the people can stand the perfect light, yes.
What other question? Yes.
85’00”
How can I realize if he is the nearest Christ consciousness, the Christ consciousness of the building, can I find the point in me who can … See the real light? …. who can find the way to connect the real Christ consciousness?
Now, look here, this week went slowed and slowed and slowly, because, you’ll find today, where you start, as a present day personality, you must study your emotions, your desires, your thoughts, your intentions, the way you are living, and study their quality. Then start slowly slowly, changing them for better. And better, and better, and be seeing things in a better light, by reasoning. And by what you call right thinking. Of course, and by doing so and you need time, much time, to study your present day
personality condition now, as an emotional body and as noetic body, you need time. When you reach that stage, when you are now master of matter, master of your emotions, master of your thoughts, of course you need know where you stand.
Because you will see the light, but now you see the light without the fear of being injured or damaged. You couldn’t see the light before. Because seeing the light before, you wouldn’t you will not be able to stand it. So, by corrections, in the course of time, you can endure more of the light, because love and light, is fire. Did I not say that before? So, before you are ready, to touch the fire without burning yourself, it is unwise to do it. But you must train yourself to those conditions, so that, without any harm, you can be the light, and the fire. It’s what we call self-purification. It’s most necessary.
Where are the dangers? Just find a person, a lady, a girl or a man, now, under very strong weaknesses, drinking, going after women or going after men, using just a kind of life, which is, I don’t call it sinful, but I call it, with very many low and strong vibrations.
I have that fellow here, who wants to see the light. How can [citizen?] And if he’s able to see that, what will be the result? You’ve got to call consciousness. Where those who are psychotherapists running psychical centers who’ve been very very careful, because the same mistakes done now by many psychotherapists, and even priests, who they say they mean good, why they are doing very much harm.
Unless one is ready to face the reality, don’t show the reality to him, if that reality will kill him. Will wake in him stings of consciousness that will lead him to despair. God, in His mercy, has covered our memory, so that, he will give us time to improve. Why should men use another way? Why that forgetting?
90’00”
Many have come here want to remember a past incarnation but why did the Infinite Beingness and the Logos and total wisdom of God is depriving you now, from remembering? Because you are not ready to face the truth and the reality and the light. May lead you to despair. Slowly slowly, one reaches the point that remembering will not harm him, he will remember.
But not before.
So, it’s better that we should proceed, carefully, and according to the will of God. What’s the will of God?
Not too fast, to create injury in our personality. This is the point. So. No need to have it. But of course, doesn’t mean crossing your [hind?] finger and [feel pride?] And I said, step, not too quickly, but not very slowly, yes?
{end of recording}