1990.06.13 (Duplicate Date) Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript.
transcription by rhr
00'00 [Opening Prayer]
Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven, give us this day, our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever.
God, life, love, and mercy, expressing yourself as the Total Wisdom and Almightiness, enlighten our minds to understand your truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen.
We said in many many lessons, that life is. Life is the Absolute Beingness. When I say ‘is’, I mean the Eternal Now. So Life is the Absolute Beingness in its multiplicity. So the Absolute Beingness, we find beings. What are these beings in the Absolute Beingness? These beings are eternal, ever lasting beings, the same as the Absolute Beingness. That means ‘gods’. And these beings, in the Absolute Beingness, are the same.
The Absolute Beingness, Life, is. In it, there is always, beyond conception of time or space, the total wisdom, and the almightiness. Now, the Absolute Beingness, and definitely, the Beings in the Absolute Beingness, having the same nature with the Absolute Beingness, express themselves in the Absolute Beingness. And they manifest their own nature, in the way they want to express themselves - again, in the Absolute Wisdom, the Total Wisdom - the total Wisdom is not only one way of expressing itself, but in many - that’s the Total Wisdom.
According to their nature, as Will, because their Will is the first principle in the Absolute Beingness, therefore in the beings in the Absolute Beingness, expressing the Absolute Beingness will as Total Wisdom, and their Will, according to their own liking and nature, we see these beings - billions of beings - in the manifestation now. In the Absolute Beingness. So I see all the Archangelic Orders, expressing themselves in the Absolute
Beingness or in themselves. So, I see now,
05’00”
another state of things. What IS and what exists. What IS is in the eternal Now. Everlasting life. What exists now is a manifestation. In the Absolute Beingness and now I have the conception of Time and Space. Time and space, yet, because what I call ‘space’ the conception of space, of [ra-omm?] is not place - it is not defined yet - it is the idea. In the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness. But now, they have to work, all those Beings in the Absolute Beingness. They have to manifest. So there must be a beginning now. And what has a beginning, entering in the worlds of the existence must have also an end. The beings, to manifest themselves have a beginning and an end? No, their manifestation will have a beginning now, and an end. And maybe that end is the beginning of some other expression of the Absolute Beingness.
So, human beings in deep meditation, concentration and observation, can know much, making use of the Mind now, as reason, and the ability of conception, which one has to develop. And what do we find? All the masters, teachers, leaders of humanity, at all times, in all places of the world found the same thing. Always. They found that studying the manifestations, they could find behind every manifestation the manifested one. Maybe an Archangel. A group of Archangels. The cooperation between the Archangels of the Elements. Their study - what you call the Elements - and can study the work of these Archangels.
What do they find? That in each order of these Archangels, we have billions and billions and billions, of beings, Archangels belonging to the same order. So don’t have a Michael, a Raphael, and a Gabriel - an imaginary, most powerful entity - but we have billions of Michaels, billions of Raphaels, billions of Gabriels, billions of Uriels. And we see the special work of these archangelic orders, in the manifested now worlds, and what do we see? By studying all these things? That these Archangelic orders, whether they are the Michaels, the Raphaels, the Gabriels, or any other order, they express the Total Wisdom, because they have it in their own nature. And the Almightiness of the Absolute Beingness, in which they are.. they are… and exist now. It is very different to be… and exist.
10’00”
Because being and to be is beyond conception of time and space. It is the Eternal Now. Eternity. But now, the world of existence is giving to the manifestations the sense of time and space. Not to the manifested ones, as beings. Because they are eternal. They are gods. Do we have many, many gods? Many beings - gods, but only one Absolute Beingness. We have an ocean and we have billions of drops of water in that ocean. But the drops are not the ocean, in quantity. In quality yes, all the drops in the ocean, or taken from the ocean are of the same nature as the ocean. In quality. Not in quantity.
So, it’s only one Absolute Beingness, in which there are billions and billions of beings, gods, eternal everlasting beings, which we must see them in manifestation. In the Absolute Beingness.
Now, what’s man? A human being? So. All the religions - the serious religions in the world - at all times, are giving what those who made those religions, the truth, relative again truth, according to the conception who head a religion. But what we will see is that all of them agree. What they have received through deep meditation, observation and contemplation, all of them are saying the same thing. Sometimes they cover them, emotionally, in their own way without changing the real meaning of the teaching.
So what do they teach about the be-ing-ness of an Absolute Being - life? Manifested as phenomena of life. Now, the phenomena of life are giving us the sense of the worlds of existence. Of the various worlds or dimensions. In which you have the manifestation of the Total Wisdom, the Almightiness of the Absolute Beingness, and the Beings manifesting themselves.
So, what’s a human being now? A man, or a woman, belonging to the one sex or the other sex. What’s it? We call him, or her, a human being. What is now a human being? You must analyze this human being so that we will know, what’s a human being. How? By making use of the super substance of the mind. There is no other way. Making use of the super substance of the Mind, formless, having in it the total Wisdom and the Almightiness
15’00”
The Mind is not God. But is supposed to express those beings in the worlds of the manifestation. And of course expressing themselves, in the worlds of the manifestation, they must express their own nature. Which is Total Wisdom and Almightiness. How to understand this manifestation? As total Wisdom and as Almightiness. And what we find in it? By studying what I call the circles of possibilities and the circles of probabilities governing every manifestation of life, in the material world, the so-called psychical worlds, in the noetical worlds or mental worlds, everywhere we see a manifestation, that means a world of existence.
Now again, this is what you shall note. In the world of the existence I see the manifested one and the manifestation. The manifested one. Who is the manifested one? Definitely always a being. Eternal, as Infinite Beingness. And now I see the manifestation. I said ‘everything is Mind’. So the manifestation or the manifested worlds are all composed by the Mind. Matter is solid Mind. All the worlds of the various dimensions, the Researchers after the Truth can know, have the means as the Mind to know are the worlds of the manifestation.
And what do we find? In all phenomena of life, living forms around us, that the expression or the manifestation of the total wisdom of God - we’ll call it now the world of the Ideas - which are the causes and the laws, must manifest a form. There is nothing existing not having a form. So we come now to the world now, of their forms. I will say living forms. Then, because everything is living… a grain of sand is living.
And now we’ll come to life. In the worlds of the manifestation, the material world, the psychical world, the noetical world, and all the other worlds, can there be something as death? No. It is a hypothesis that is not existing. We make the mistake to say death. The change in the phenomena, and only that we call death. Because if death exists, then the Absolute Beingness cannot be mortal.
This you must have in mind. So. Death does not exist and definitely it isn’t in the world of the Beingness. What you call death is a change and maybe a dissolution of a form to enter life in a different way of expression. Expressing itself in a different manner. So. All serious religions do not believe in death. And Christians,
20’00”
of course, cannot believe in death. Because Christ, the God-man, spoke clearly about it. “There is no death.” While it’s not the phenomenon of this change we call death, the time of Christ? Yes. And he proved it by raising up those called dead. The daughter of Iirus, the young one they were carrying for burial, which means hauling the entity back in the material body. So, the entity existed. And is, in the eternal now. You say now, but, the material body does not die? No. The form of a human body is dissolved to give itself to new forms of life. The orthodox science found it out. That even matter is indestructible. It’s changing, yes, but cannot be destroyed. Cannot be annihilated. And what is matter can be turned into energy and energy back into matter.
This is what the orthodox science has now discovered, which was known to all the mystics in all centuries in all places on the planet. So, for us, they’re not suggesting us death, or the passing over, even again ‘passing over’ is misleading. Passing over where? Because we were over - means ‘place’. By studying this matter, even this ‘passing over’ is not correct. Might say ‘changing way of life’. That’s more correct. If one asks, you say ‘passes over’ it does move his consciousness or even the form… because even after the passing over, a human being keeps his form in what I call the “psychical body”. Or the noetical body. What is he? In place? Nowhere and everywhere.
Now what does it mean “nowhere and everywhere”? You have another now, conception about place or space. I’ll make you understand that. I have a broadcasting station. Very very very powerful. And this powerful station is transmitting, broadcasting a concert, a speech, talk, something. What is that broadcasting now? Think. In place space, you have a receiver, you can get it by attuning yourself to those vibrations, everywhere. So, receiving apparatus here will give me that concert, and even another receiving apparatus in London will give it. Or in any other part of the world if the station is powerful to broadcast this ‘weight’. But one who passes over expresses more itself in world of a different dimension, in the dimension where? Place exists, but space is not existing. What does it mean ‘place existing and space is not existing?’ Is not place in space?
25’00”
Yes but, you are losing now, the sense of space. That’s why we say, in certain lessons that, ‘space is an illusion’. Now I said before “here and everywhere”. It’s now a matter of receiving the vibrations of the psychical body. A fellow passes over, and maybe he has three children. The one in Australia, the other in London, and the other in New York. This happened really. There were three brothers… Cypriots… who wanted to come in contact with their father. And they agreed to call their father with so-called strong mediums, on the same hour. Same hour means different hour in the various places. In the one place it was night, in the other place it was day. But they knew the difference in what we call the hour. And they wanted just to make the contact at the on the same hour. So, their father appeared. To three of them, at the same time (not the same time at the various places), at the same time they have just made their calculations. What the father say? And not educated Cypriot. Just a common man. He told them ‘my children, I have kept a bag with 400 golden pounds. He told them all the same thing. If you go to the village and dig 3 feet in front of the oven, removing a marble, you’ll find that bag. With 400 golden pounds. Now, your mother has passed over. So, no need each one of you and your mother have 100 golden pounds, each one of you have your 100 golden pounds and the remaining hundred pounds you divide them amongst you in a just way. Three children of that fellow got the same message. They came to Cyprus, they did it… they dug, in front of the oven, removed the marble and they found the bag with the 400 golden pounds. They were amazing. How was that possible? At the same hour, their father, who passed over, could communicate with them, the one in Australia, the other in London and the other in America? But again, what about the bag with the 400 golden pounds? They went to the priest. Of course the priest said “it is the Devil who know about it, that wasn’t your father. Beside, having knew your father, who was not a clever man or an educated man, and how is it possible that your father, at the same hour, through what we call a medium, spoke to you telling you the same thing and finding this thing?” Of course, they thought best to stop talking with the Priest, and they decided to come to me. That even was before 16, 17 years.
I said, “we shall call your father… contact your father. And let you know.” Asked him “sir, your children found the money
30’00”
they thank you for the money, but, how you contacted them? Said, “Oh, they came to my room. They were near me, sitting near me, I was very very happy they visited me. Three of them in my place!” So, in the other side, it’s not annihilated the idea of place, but of space. I said, “look here, yes but differently, they came, they sat in the chair there.” “We had a very, very nice talk.” The father didn’t see the mediums, but he could see his children. Then of course when that meeting was over, they told me “what do you say Mr. Atteshlis, is it not the devil? How could our father come to us? Is it not the devil now talking to you? Knowing that you have called our father? And you found him”, and I said “No. Just because you are ignorant of the conditions of the other side, as you call it, your father, was near you all the time.” How? “Could my father be at the same time in Australia, in London, and in New York?” “Yes. Of course he could.” “Did he know that?” I said, “Of course not.” “He didn’t know that?” He said, “but how is that possible?” Now science is studying what you call ’telepathy’.
What happens if somebody in many thousands of miles away, is thinking of somebody, with love, wants to communicate and say something and the other fellow, so many thousands miles away, can feel it? Then you call it telepathy. So, science, that’s studying this thing, all these things. “So, you mean it was our father really? Who came to us?” “No, he didn’t come to you, or you didn’t go to him. You attuned yourselves to him, and he attuned himself to you.” “Where was he?” “Everywhere can be, and nowhere, as you think is the meaning of place. That means, his room, or your room as you are sitting, communicating.” Of course, I did my best to make them understand that.
Though they were very very educated, they couldn’t understand what I wanted to tell them. I said yes of course, you must study these matters. Leavilism - be able to express yourself in a distance, and then you’ll understand what is meeting of the ideas and conceptions of human beings. Of course these are not easy things just to understand them. By explaining certain things, one has to seek, work for years, if not for centuries. To be able to come to what I call ‘self realization’. To understand what is life, even in a form? Even in the worlds of the manifestation. He should know the laws governing the various worlds of the dimensions. To understand what? What is life even as a manifestation.
So what’s life now? Of a human being, your life. Do you think life is what you think it is, life? Receiving impressions and interpreting impressions through the five senses only? No. I see broad, and broad, and broader life, which one has to work for it. Work. Who will work? You. You tell me yes, but who, me? Helen, Mary, George, John! yes.
35’00”
But not only your ‘you’ shadow, but also understanding that you are not only that. You are a soul, expressing itself as your present day personality. You have to study and analyze your present day personality. In a human body. But not stay in it, study your bodies, study the way you are expressing yourself in time and space, in finding yourself what I call self-realization. But do I have another self than myself as Mary, Helen, George and John? Definitely you have. This is your ‘image’. Your likeness. Your reflection. In the mirrors of matter, emotion and thought, only it’s not you. You make the mistake to take your reflection in matter, emotion and thought as yourself. You have to work with the right meditation, observation, concentration to reach what I call ‘contemplation’, or ‘exosis’, and knowing the truth. From the illusion, enter in the truth behind illusions.
I heard a scientist the other time, Doctor of Physics, from America, in America. Said ‘sir, I heard a lesson of yours on the tape. You say that ‘matter is Mind, solid’.’ “Yes. And it can become energy, and energy, matter.” ‘Of course,’ he says, ‘I want to believe that. And you say that even in matter, and matter is living” “Definitely matter is living.” “Do you mean that a rock is living?” “Definitely a rock is living.” “How is it living?” “Of course not expressing a self-consciousness. Because life as a manifestation, is various stages of expression. They different the life of a stone, from the life of a tree, from the life of a [pranan?] that planted a flower, from the life of an animal, from your life. As it is different your life in a material form, mean a human body from the life of the Archangels.
He said, “don’t you think this here, that what you are saying are confusing? How do you expect people to believe it?” “And who told you I want people to believe it? I express what I know it’s the truth, and I show the way how to reach this truth, if they like to follow that way, they should investigate themselves to find the truth!” “Do you mean, you don’t know - when you are giving a lesson you don’t expect others to believe you?” “No.
Because if they believe what I say, without investigating and knowing the truth, they are stupid.” I said, “Look here. One should show the way. One should speak what he knows and if the others want to believe… that, they should work for it.” Of course, to reject something you don’t understand, it’s stupid. As stupid it is to accept something without really understanding it and knowing it.”
He said that, “well, how everyone will come to that conclusion?” “Everyone has the right of using the Mind, as a super substance, formless, to use it, every one has the right, if he wants to do it, to use it. To reach, himself, the truth. But if people do not want to use the Mind, it’s a different thing.
40’00”
I said, a Daskalos, is the brother guide. To speak, show, and the one who listens and hears has to cover the study, to investigate.” Said, “Do we have time for that, sir?” I said, “Yes of course. What is wrong with your time? Time to collect other, call things your own, and then, passing to the other side without being able to take what you are gathering?”
Said, “Sir don’t start teaching me now what Christ said, what you have gathered, belongs to whom?” I said, “You are supposed to be Christian! Do you think that Christ was saying nonsense? He was also a God-brother-guide.” I said, “now, let us come again what really I want to know.” You said that Matter is Mind, solid, expressing the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness.” “Of course.” “By splitting an atom, you find a solar system. A nucleus, electrons, protons, ions, I don’t know what you are calling them, I don’t care how you are calling them. And you find motion, moving around that nucleus.” “Yes of course, that is… “That doesn’t lead you just to the conception of the circle of probabilities?” “The circle of probabilities? Yes, to the circle of probabilities.” “Governing what I call a solar system.” “An atom is a solar system?” “Definitely it is.” “And a galaxy?” “Another kind of solar system.” And the laws are the same, which are motion, movement.” “Ah yes”. “Can you deny there is in space, in a solar system, in everything in space, motion?” He says, “yes, it is motion.” What’s motion? I taught him “God”. “Oh,” he says, “God is motion?” It is the nature of God, the will of God. And when you see motion and you see worlds created, and governed by what I call Total Wisdom, which you can understand by developing your human intellect.
Where from do we get this human intellect of yourself, calling yourself a Doctor of Physics? “Yes, really, what’s a human intellect?” I said, “an expression of yours as a present day personality. Sir do you know that your posit, you know…” “I don’t posit, which is because you have everything mixed up. And what you know as a scientist is what you read in the books. And you are trying to repeat them without really knowing them.”
Now, everyone has the right and can use the formless super substance of the Mind to reach the Truth. To pass from what we call ‘illusions’ to the Truth. Then. What for? What for are what human beings are learning now. He will love to know the truth. To liberate you from the illusions. Just how in a little way, be able to cheat the other fellow men and become rich, and a millionaire? Depriving things from the others and let them starving? Is that the object in life? No. What as it is? Study? Study what? What for? So I am telling you, most of the endeavors of human beings now
45’00”
are needless. Because whatever a human being will achieve being under the influence and slavery of matter and illusion, is in vain, and leads to despair. This is what I see every day around me.
I had, before some months, a fellow who was afraid of death. Because he is nearly 80, very very rich, but accusing the sons that they spend too much. He’s a very avaricious man. He his lived all his life…
[end of tape side]
very avaricious, now very very rich. In his 80s now, with children and grandchildren. Expecting grand, grand children. He doesn’t know how much he has… he told us as now, he has much. Money and suites alike. Yes. Because they are more safe there, flats in London. And in Cyprus. Ask him “Look here. How much you really have?” Said, “I wish I knew. But I am very poor.” “Definitely we agree that you are very poor! Other people would call you very rich.” He said, “Sir I’m afraid of death, that’s why I came to you.” “What’s death?” I taught him “There are lots of everything out there. It’s what I call the passing over.” Where? I said, “Here, and everywhere. Of course you cannot understand what I mean,
passing over.” “Yes what about my riches?” I said, “There is a bank, in which you can lodge money, not much money, you can take them the other side. But unfortunately, you did not work with that bank.” He said, “which is that bank?” “Your heart.” “Is my heart a bank?” “Yes a bank in which you can lodge some money to have them in the other side. You have to exchange them, in the cheques we call love. Who did you love now? Your children? Your wife? Second wife? Depriving her even - the first wife - the necessary things for life?” “Did I come here,” he said, “that you start accusing me?” “Definitely no. Enlightening you. Don’t you think it’s better to open that bank, the heart, and lodge something, to have them on the other side?” “How?” he said. “By love. Just start feeding”, I said, “those starving fellows. Try to give some money for people who don’t have the means, to become well.” He said, “And in this way, I lodge money in the other side.” I said, “Definitely. You develop what I call love. There is only one means of passing over. What you think you have, which is love.” “Do you mean I’m a just start giving….” “What is yours? What you think is yours has never been yours. And will never be yours. Because what do you think is yours?”
Now, your eyes
[50’00”]
seeing dimly, [calcicle?] eyeglasses to see. What do you see? Maybe, before long you will become blind.” Said, “Oh, for God’s sake, don’t say that.” “You cannot say, you will not become tomorrow, blind. You have I think very very huge buildings. In Limassol, in Pathos, what else, in London, and other places, do you know them? There on the paper. Can you live in all those places? No. Suppose you are losing completely your sight. What belongs to you? ” Said, “You know, I came here, thought you would take away from my heart the fear of death, and you will make me leave the place more frightened.” “Not more frightened, more enlightened. That you will pass over, it’s guaranteed. Nobody stays in the material body, and especially why you should? Since your material body now is worn out. You have diabetes, you cannot breath well, have [in the mind?] in the lungs.” “Yes but, never mind how ill I am, with your wits…” “You have arteriosclerosis…” “Yes” “Why stay in a worn up,” I said, “dress, you don’t need.” “Yes sir, but life is good as you have it.” I said, “you are mistaken. When your clothes are worn out, take them away.” “Where shall I find new ones?” “What will you do with new ones? See who gave
you this dress you have worn out will give you another one, if you deserve it.” “Sir, many times I have got some of your books and your lectures. But I throw them away.” “Why?” “Because they are frightening me.” “Why did you come to me now?” “Convince me that there is no death.” “Even if you want death to be and exist, you cannot. Because many killed in consciousness would like that death would exist. But they have to face,” I said, “their actions, their emotions, their weaknesses. Not to say their crimes.” “You call me a criminal?” “No, of course not. A fool, yes. Stupid, yes. But not a criminal, because I know you don’t do something being afraid of God, you want to believe and you can not believe. But I can call you stupid, because lately, you are going very often to the church” “Yes, of course.” “What are you going, bargaining with God, with a kind of paradise… is that [dot valkar?]” “Oh, I came here and you will confuse me.” “Yes or No. You are going to the church, playing for what?” “Do you mean that I shouldn’t go to the church?” “Go for some [stir?] purpose. But you can pray in your room.” “Yes.” “But what’s in your prayer? Just learning prayers, closing your eyes, or with open eyes, reciting those prayers. And you want God to answer to you?” Said, “Sir, when we pray, God is hearing us, not in praying, but the time you are thinking, He knows everything that you are thinking.” “Yes?” “Of course, he knows.” “And suppose I pray to him, he hears me, he will reply to me?” “No.”
55’00”
“To answer to you, to a prayer, should be a prayer from lips which have lost the power of wounding others. Then you have the claim, the Infinite Beingness to listen to you, because words from lips who are wounding the others are losing their meaning and their power to reach God.” Said, “look here sir, I am 80. Though you say that you are younger, but are you deceiving yourself? Do you think that by saying you are younger you solve the problem?” Says, “of course not. Then prepare yourself for the passing over. And just help people. Love people. Give what you cannot take with you.” “Just like that and leave nothing?” “Even if you want to leave nothing, you have so much, you will not be able to dispose what you have and remain with nothing.” [This is wrong?] “So, do I need a medical doctor near me?” “It’s up to you to decide that it’s not their problem, that’s your problem.” “What do I need?” “God. To attune yourself to God.” “Where shall I find God?” “Inside you. But you didn’t have time to think about all these things, all the time trying to steal the others, legally. Piling up property, depriving things from people to live.” “Give me an advice sir.”
“I know you have many many many cases in the courts. Of people who are people who have nearly nothing claiming a claim, and you have threatened even to take the shutter of their windows in winter if they don’t pay you.” “How do you know it?” “Because you are telling me that, I didn’t tell you that. You are shouting in your mind, without knowing it.” “No, you are stealing my thoughts sir!” “I’m not. You’re shouting, and I’m hearing. You have asked me to give you an advice now.” “Yes” “Withdraw all the cases from the court. And go to their houses, instead of threatening to remove the shutters from the windows, and the doors, leaving their children exposed to the cold, maybe to die of pneumonia, go and see what are the needs of these families. And help them. Some of them are related to you by blood.” He said, “Yes, do you mean that I must spend my money…” “Your money? What do you mean ‘your money’. What are money?” “Sir, goodbye.”
He went away. But I tried to follow him. Happily, he came back to senses. He started doing good work. Giving money to the orphanage, giving money to poor people. Even finding people with great difficulties in the marriage of their daughter to somebody, postponing the marriage because they didn’t have the means for that, even spending money. I heard that from some of his friends and relatives.
I met him in the street, I said, “will you come and talk?” “No, I’ll not come to your house and talk to you, but I’ll tell you something.” “What you would tell me?” “Something that… maybe you would call me stupid” “No, you are not stupid,” I said. “I’ll tell you what you want to tell me.” “Tell me.”
60’00”
“That you are greatly pleased going to do something good and you see people being in a better condition.” “I did. How did you know it?” Said, “You tell me that.” “Tell you… are you going to make me a fool? When did I tell you that?” I said, “Look here, the same way you told me the other day when you came to my house about your [disgarted?] no need to tell again words. You are shouting then. And you are also shouting with pleasure you found in giving some money,” I said, “for that girl to get married, and live a better life. But, it’s something more you would do.” “What is it?” “Do it with your heart, not because you are afraid of death and you want to make good things without really feeling them.” He said, “I have an idea, and I’m afraid it’s you who are putting this idea in myself.” “I
swear I am not.” “But do it.” He says, “Do you know what it is?” “Yes. You want to take 3 or 4 children, related to you by blood, as adopted children.” “That’s true.” “Do it.” “Are you sure you don’t put this suggestion in my mind?” I said “I swear no!” “Who is putting them in me?” “Look here, my good man, you are good and you don’t know it! You just leave yourself to speak to you, and you are good.” “Yes, now, I want to believe you. Are am I really good?” I said, “Of course! It is the goodness within you, telling you what to do. Maybe your Guardian Angel.” “Where is your Guardian Angel?” “Inside you.” “Where?” “Well, it is a rather difficult to understand more thing, but I’m telling you that in you is your Guardian Angel. In you is your good self. Now, find that self of yours. I want to read your books,” he said, “but I’m afraid that I’ll not understand anything.” “Look here. No need to use your mind to understand things. Feel love for others, and then you will see God.” “See God?” “Christ said, ‘blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God’. No need to be a clever man to see God. But be a good man. Already God praised you and you felt it.” “How? When?” “When you went in your house, after giving that money, and you saw the people happier, and you felt, what you call a joy.” “Yes, yes, I felt that.” “That’s a praise from God and you didn’t understand that you are in touch with God.” “Now, look here, he says, do help me, even from far away, to become good.” “You are already good. Better. How? So that you will say that I am disposing your money myself? No. You will do it. You see now, in the 11th hour and 3/4 of your life, what you have to do.” “Again, you are just reminding me of my age.” “Whether I am reminding you or not, you are at that age.” He says, “I want a promise.” “Yes” “Do you promise me, because I heard many many things about you, when you say I pass over, to shake me and wake me up on the other side?.”
He started just to understand very early… Said, “I promise.” He is still living, torturing himself, to wake up. Torturing himself because he didn’t do that yet, realize what is good and loving not by reflection. What does it mean ‘not by reflection’? We don’t love
65’00”
people because they satisfy our egoism, but we must love people because we must love them for their sake, not for our sake. Now of course, this fellow needs time to wake up by in the reality. What I want to say. It’s not an easy thing, to wake up after long long years in illusion. So one should
start, because he needs time to wake up. Wake up, what? In getting accustom to express himself or herself as love.
So, one should start early, to develop with himself or herself what we call the good and real emotions and thoughts. I put another way. Start from now to build his paradise and demolish his prison and hell. He has to do it. No other would do it.
And I said in a lesson that no one will find himself in passing over into any hell or in any paradise he or she is not now. So by the introspection, the exercises I am leaving now is just to face boldly your subconsciousness, by self analysis, as self now, I mean the present day personality, having as guide our real self, your soul self. Start building your paradise.
And I say, destroying, pulling down, the walls of your prison. I mean that. All kinds of meditation may be good, leading you to the mastery of your emotions and your thoughts. But for me, the most necessary and important exercise is the introspection. Or the looking within. In analyzing that self of yours, which is the present day personality, trying to purify it, so that you’ll save it. To make it in attunement with your real self, the soul. Nobody can be sure about himself as a soul as long as the present day personality is not pure and clean, for what I call the ‘self-assimilation’ to the self. You must assimilate your present day personality - not the egoism, definitely - with your real self, which is your soul.
Your soul, whose soul? The soul is the backbone of your present day personality. Without it, a present day personality cannot exist - is the feeling of self-consciousness. Realizing even, your self consciousness are the present day personality, you find the way. This is the most precious thing for every human being. And giving up everything else, in earning money, if you can say that, all kind of things: money, power, are good to help others. So, a fellow who gives up money and everything cannot help. So it is better, to use your mind, even earning money, because money as every other power is good, in good use, and in good hands.
70’00”
So one should be reasonable. To know which is the truth, why he’s here, what are his possibilities and probabilities, lead the right life, without fearing
life or the change of life in a other form. Or in another state. Yes, now, your questions?
Yeah?
[woman’s voice] In your prayer… our prayer, there is the phrase “don’t lead us into temptation”
D: But deliver us from evil. Yes. This is the only sentence in the Lord’s Prayer misunderstood even by Priests and dignitaries of the Priests. Already ourselves, as present day personality are creating the temptations. Creating the elementals. They are within us. So, by saying ‘And lead us not into temptation’, means ‘don’t allow us to continue creating the temptation, but interfere to stop us from being led into what you call temptation.’ It is because human beings realize that they are weak. And they need a help for that. Does it mean that ‘he’s leading us to temptation’ and you ask him ‘not to lead us into temptation’ because we create the temptation?
I had the other day a fellow. He came to me and taught me, “Sir”, - he was a Cypriot - “I am telling you something and don’t tell me that I am under illusions.” Said, “What?” “At night, when I retire, and I am alone, I feel the Devil is near me, tempting me.” Started laughing. “What is the form of this devil near you?” “I didn’t see him yet, but I feel him, more strongly!” “Coming and tempting you?” “Yes. The Devil.” I said, “The devil? hmmm. How tempting you?” “Even insulting me! Speech came to me… I hear words! Don’t tell anyone because they consider I’m a fool.” “So you hear the Devil, even insulting you?” “Yes.” “Telling me things.” “Yes.” “And uhh… if that devil you imagine existed, really existed, he would come and give you a slap. ‘Why?’ they tell you, ‘Why you accuse me for doing things?’ There is not any devil outside of you who is tempting you. Start the introspection and be sincere with yourself. Analyze yourself because that devil you are telling me is you.” “Oh, don’t tell me that, I am afraid.” “And that’s you!”
So what you are facing are your elementals. So have in your mind this lesson about the elementals and the nature of elementals - how they are created - how they behave - going and coming back - is a most important lesson everybody should learn and know. Because… Said, “Do you mean that I don’t really hear insults and voices?” “Of course you do.
Because the elementals you are creating casting out coming to you are intelligent. They are living.” “Where?” “Inside your subconsciousness.” Said, “So, I must be afraid…” “Not afraid of devil, afraid of you. Afraid from the way you are living, thinking and feeling.” “Yes really they persuade me - that devil is persuading me, to hate…” “No, that’s not the devil, it’s your elementals.” So,
75’00”
many, really many, when they think they open their chakras, according to the Hindu schools, which happily doesn’t happen, because the centers of energy are under the Archangels of the Elements working in your body, for your home - your body. What you do as a present day personality is just disturbing the balance of your nervous system. This what happens. This is for the psychotherapist will start also what we call psychoanalysis.
So, when I said before why should be sincere, and honest with himself, in facing what is in his consciousness, just to disarm this temptation. It’s not necessary to ask what “to lead us not into temptation”, because we can do that. Always with the help of the Infinite Beingness. So, this phrase is most mostly misunderstood.
You tell me now, “A devil is not existing.” A devil? Or devils? As we have human beings, billions of human beings, and billions of Archangelic orders, you have billions, also what you call ‘devils’. All around us. And one class of the devils are the elementals. The group elementals of all human beings all through the centuries. They do exist. And I said yesterday that energizing them, re-energizing them, it’s harmful. We are responsible, and we do have to suffer for it. But even, I know many devils, I met many devils, as I’m meeting Angels and Archangels, I tell you that the devils are not cunning as some of the elementals we are doing. Believe me, they are not so bad and so cunning. Those you call devils or demons are more innocent than many of your elementals you are creating in hatred. Those who are hating are creating more devilish elementals than the devils.
So one should be honest with himself and disenergize these so-called devilish elementals, worse than the entities we call devils.
Yea.
[woman’s voice] Thank you.
D: Loudly.
[man’s voice] [unint.] In the daily introspection exercise, I’m asking myself what I have done which I shouldn’t have done, and what I have not done which I should have done. And umm what I have said which I shouldn’t have said, and .. how about thoughts?
D: About?
[man’s voice] Thoughts. You did not mention that one should ….
D: When I said “what I said which I shouldn’t say” it means I said that thoughtlessly. It’s thought. And what I didn’t say, that I had to say, that means using the right thought of doing it. Of course that’s thought. How can you say something without thinking it over? So it is including thought. And emotionals. So. And this is a formula as guide, on which you have the chance to work. But having that in front of you, we have the question, ‘am I sincere with myself?’ When I say what I said which I shouldn’t say. And I am not under the influence of my egoism saying ‘yes, now I think it of it, I should say that.’ It’s how you think it. So when I say ‘analyzing’, I mean, really analyzing properly.
80’00”
Having a code for it… this what I do is not good. And Christ gave us the measures: Never do unto others what you don’t want the others to do to you. Here is the measure. Because sometime what is good and what is bad we are measuring it according to what you call the ‘interests of our egoism.’ This is a conception about good or evil. A missionary was giving a lesson to negros. “What’s good and what’s evil?” He asked one, “Do you understand what’s this evil?” He said, “Yes, of course.”
“What’s evil?” “My neighbor, to convince my wife, to run after him. To steal my wife.” [cross the village?] I said ‘That’s evil.’” “Tell me something good now” “If I succeed to convince the wife of my neighbor to follow” [Laughter].
So, also it is to be sincere with the measure we are measuring what is good
and evil. Just to have this guide, and now measuring in a different way, the egoism will come and say, ‘yes’. I said that because it was right to say that, if I measure with the measure of my egoism. To be sincere means no… Now I have to judge good and evil according to principles and not according to my interests as egoist. So when I say introspection, looking within, it’s a most serious and difficult work and you need just to enter in what I call sincerity with yourself. That’s why I give so much importance to that exercise I call introspection. Because in introspection, you have to separate the present day personality, which is time and space influences and interests, from your real self which is the soul eternal which is living by principles. Not by personal interests. This is what I call introspection.
Yeah.
[woman’s voice] [unint.] stop. Our material bodies suffering,. [laughter]
[crowd noise]
[84’50”] [Recording ends]