1990.02.06
Daskalos Stoa Lesson - February 6, 1990 (A and B) Transcribed by RTT
Part A
Our Father, Who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy Name. Thy Kingdom come, Thy Will be done on Earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory, forever.
God of Life, Love, and Mercy. Enlighten our minds to understand your Truth. Clean our hearts to reflect Your Love towards You and towards all other human beings. Amen.
We said in previous lessons that what is eternally is the Absolute Beingness. And as we can understand this Absolute Beingness we call God we can understand by Its nature its expressions. The Absolute Beingness as nature or it is motion. Life. Life is motion. Another nature of the Absolute Beingness we can understand is its Total Wisdom, Total Love, and Total Force or Mind. The Absolute Beingness is the almighty God. These three natures of the Absolute Beingness we human beings with our human intelligence can understand and study. Now, what is is the Absolute Beingness, eternally Life. And what is and exists now is the expression of the Absolute Beingness in Itself. Expression means the Logos. So, the Logos is the expression of the Absolute Beingness, not another God. The Absolute Beingness in expression in Itself. And also Its expression as force/might and the attributes you have given to the Absolute Beingness -
Total Wisdom, Total Love and Total Might/Energy - is what we call the Holy Spirit. So, the Absolute Beingness in Its three states is Spirit. What’s Spirit? Spirit for us means the Absolute Beingness. Spirit for us is the Logos - the expression of the Absolute Beingness as absolute self-expression. Spirit also is the Holy Spirit. Christ says in the New Testament God is Spirit and those who honor Him and approach Him should approach him in mind and Spirit.
5’07”
He said that in the Greek language - (Speaking Greek). So, the Absolute Beingness, the Father, the Absolute Beingness expression Logos, the Son, and the Absolute Beingness as the Holy Spirit are Spirit for us. Now, the various languages they make another use of the word Spirit. And by Spirit they mean also the Mind. Especially in the German language. The mind is geist. They don’t use the word spirit. And then for the Holy Spirit they use the word Heiliger Geist. You must make the separation of it. Spirit is God. Now, what are we in God? In the Absolute Beingness. We are Spirit-Self. An ego-spirit-self-superconsciousness. If we were not spirits why did Christ say God is Spirit and those who approach Him and honor Him should approach Him in Spirit and Truth? So our real self is God. Consubstantial to the Father. Ye are Gods and sons of the Almighty, says Christ. The Logos. So, our ego-spirit-self-superconsciousness corresponds to the Absolute Beingness in Its own nature, self-abundance, as Total Wisdom, Total Love, and Total Power. Almighty. But, as the Absolute Beingness expresses Itself in Itself as the Logos Christ, we express ourselves in the Absolute Beingness and in ourselves as the Soul. And we are also as expression of our Spirit-Self-Superconsciousness an Ego-Soul-(again)Self-Superconsciousness. SELF-Superconsciousness. We express ourselves with an I-ness, an Ego. Even Christ, the Logos, expressed collectively now Himself as an Ego. Because Christ as God said I..I...and the Father are One. He speaks about his at-one-ment with the Father yet he says I and the Father. Now you will understand what I mean by Self-Superconsciousness. Now, to express Itself, the Absolute Beingness, in Itself created the Mind. Creates the Mind every moment in space.
10’00”
Also the Mind is and exists and everything is Mind. The galaxies, all material heavenly bodies, are floating in this ocean we call Mind. So, Mind is the Total Wisdom of the Absolute Beingness manifested. The Total of the Absolute Beingness manifested. And the Total Might, or Force, or Energy of the Absolute Beingness manifested in Itself. Somebody put me the
question the other day, “What’s space, Daskale?” From the German, Raum. I think that’s the word isn’t it? I said the Absolute Beingness because it cannot be such a thing outside the Absolute Beingness because everything is in the Absolute Beingness and space, or Raum, is just the scene in which everything is expressed. Galaxies and everything. What’s Mind, now? Mind is kinesis, motion as Total Wisdom, Total Love, and Total Power or Might in the Absolute Beingness. Is the Absolute Beingness in Its pure state in need to express Itself in Itself? No, but He expresses Itself expressing what we call the Infinite Beingness Willpower, which is again the Total Wisdom, the Total Love, and the Total Might or Power. So far the human intelligence can understand what is going on in the Universes. So, everything is Mind. All the universes are built by this stuff we call Mind and we find Mind as formless super-substance. There is no other word. We find Mind as substance and we find Mind as super matter. And again as matter. Matter is Mind solid. We understand the difference between matter, super matter, substances, super substance by the rate of the vibrations of the Mind. Again, by what we call kinesis, motion, movement. This we can trace and we can study outside of ourself in the Absolute Beingness, in space, and within us because we are the microcosmos, the same as the macrocosmos. So you have this for comparison. The Absolute Beingness, the Father, is our ego-spirit-self-superconsciousness. Self-superconsciousness. The Logos, the expression of the Absolute Beingness in Itself as the Logos, we express ourselves as the ego-soul-self-superconsciousness. And of course the Holy Spirit, the Power, the creativeness of the Absolute Beingness in Itself, is creating our bodies.
15’00”
We said that Mind is everything. Matter, our material body, our so-called Psychical body, our mind/noetic bodies with the etheric doubles. So, studying a human being you will know what’s the microcosmos. Studying our nature we can know what’s the nature of the Absolute Beingness. Now, what we find in the Old Testament - God said, expression, let Us create man according to Our likeness and image. To whom did He say that? Let Us create man. To whom he addressed? Now we understand the Absolute Beingness is in Its multiplicity. Beings are in the Absolute Beingness. And these beings are spirit-egos. The archangels of all the various orders. So you have the archangels. Can we be sure about it or it’s an imagination? Can we come in contact with them, know them? Do they know us? Of course we can. And believe me, all the orders of the archangels working in the universes are pleased to know that their work is appreciated. We said
in a lesson that when an ego-spirit-self-consciousness, by Divine Will and its own will, decides to become a human being immediately another spirit-ego, a metathronios as we call him, is ego-fied becoming one with that spirit and that is our guardian angel. Then the holy archangels of the elements hear the voice of God. Let Us create man, a human being, to our likeness and image. Likeness. Not to be different from us. And then each of these orders of the archangels, one from each order, starts to work. How? To give its gifts. They are the masters of the elements: of ether, of matter, heat, the liquids. And so they start creating, according to the plan, the Infinite Beingness Total Wisdom, the human bodies. How is that a human being is in the likeness and the image of the Absolute Beingness? Because even our present day personality, living in the material bodies, even that expresses an ego, an I-ness, a self-consciousness. By being ourselves self-consciousnesses we are in the image and likeness of the Absolute Beingness. We are gods. Even as human beings.
20’00”
Even as a man and a woman. We are gods. So, using the Mind, the formless super-substance of the Mind, as a mirror we can see ourselves reflected in it as human beings and we can study our human nature now. What’s the human nature? This is what we have to study. First of all, separate ourselves from our bodies. And we said our bodies are built by the Total Wisdom of the Holy Spirit as, say, creator and our holy brothers the archangels. In a human body of a man, not of a man only, and of the animals, all around us. All animals having red hot blood. Now, in our bodies, the material bodies, most wisely obeying the Total Wisdom and the Divine Plan of God a Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, and a Uriel are working. Cooperating. The Lords of the Elements. Not only in our material bodies, in the etheric doubles also. In our psychical body, the etheric double, and our noetical body. So, we live as a present day personality each one of us in three bodies while being awakened as we say in the material body. You are living at the same time in three bodies making use of the three etheric doubles joining, connecting these bodies. How do we know that? How can we know that? By using them. We cannot be sure of something unless you have it and you use it. If somebody will give you a theory which is not proved to be correct and true, reject it. Something you can know yourself and use it, then you can be sure about it. And if somebody will object you tell him, no, stop it. If I come one day while you are working with both your hands, and tell you you don’t have hands to work with he will tell you, “What am I doing now? I am using my hands.” Said which hands? “These hands which I am using to work and even slap if
I want to. How I don’t have these two hands? Here I am.” So when one day not only you know about the existence of these three bodies. The material body you know. You touch it, you move around with it, and that. What about the other bodies and their etheric doubles? Now you hear you have them. Yes, you have them and you use them subconsciously. When one day you will be able to use them consciously and later self-consciously then you will be sure you have them.
24’57”
And if somebody when you use them properly will come and tell you it’s imagination. Yes, material body I touch it, yes. I touch you and we shake hands I know you have a material body but you don’t have anything apart from the material body. You tell him you think so. The same way I use my material body in moving about, working, working, I can use the other bodies also. You don’t know to use them and so you are not sure that you have them. But I can use them now consciously and self-consciously so I am sure I have them. It’s not because St Paul said in one of his epistles about these three bodies mentioning them. But the old people knew much about it because they were using these three bodies. So, to know the truth means to know who we are, what we are and use what is given us to use and make good use of what is given as to make good use of it. The body, the emotional body or the psychical body, and the noetic or mind body. And when will do that then you come to a safer now conclusion. Who am I? Who? Know all this, use them. I am the master of it. Then and only then you can realize that you are an ego-self-consciousness. Who can take away from you this truth and this faith when you have it? Yourself. Not by reading in books but by knowing it yourself. Know the Truth and the Truth will liberate you from the illusions. You must know the Truth. You must make conscious and self-conscious use of your bodies. Of your bodies. Now we have a material body. Do we make really conscious and self-conscious use of our bodies? Do we know them in reality? Do we know what is going on and what takes place in our bodies? You have them everything ready. Other entities build it for us. Other entities, the holy archangels of the elements, look after our material bodies. And what we do? Living in this material body without knowing what this material body is. Happily you can use the Mind as thought to study it and know what is our material body and what is going on in our material body. Even now the orthodox science has to learn much more. Before some years the scientists didn’t know anything about the circulation of the blood. They didn’t about the functioning of the glands and they don’t know much even now. Yet, all this creative work was done in the bodies of the cavemen. The holy
archangels of the elements were working in their bodies as they work in our bodies. Yes, in the bodies of each one of us a Michael, the Lord of Fire and Heat; a Gabriel, the Lord of liquids; Raphael, the Lord of energy and etheric vitality are working, building our body in which our material bodies are built in.
30’13”
Who thanked them for their most precious work? Who thanked the Holy Spirit supervisor of these holy angels, archangels for what is taking place in their bodies? What does science know about anabolism, catabolism, metabolism? To know the balancing work of the archangel we call Uriel, who holds the Total Wisdom in our material body. Who had ever thought seeing the red blood coming out of a wound from this body, what’s that? And for each blood cell in the blood three archangels are cooperating: A Michael, a Gabriel, and Uriel. And Raphael. The three working with the elements, the one balancing the energy. We live in this material body by right or by grace? For the time being, by grace. Shall we live someday by right, having the right to call it ours without knowing much about it now? This is the aim of the research for the truth. To study, learning what’s our material body and what is the phenomenon of life as a human being in a material body. And then we say all people around us are living subconsciously. Not to say unconsciously without having the conscience of what they are doing. Let us say subconsciously. Who decided just to analyze and learn the behavior of a human being as a phenomenon of life? In this life. You see around you people getting angry. Being offended. Expressing an attitude even of aggressiveness, of striking. Insulting. Why? Who decide to say why did I behave in this way? What was the reason of this behavior of mine? The other day I had a fellow who came to me and I said, dear, so that you will just be able to make meditation (he came with a book of yoga in his hand) you must be able, I said, to control your emotions. He asked me, what are emotions? I was looking at him. What do you say? What are emotions? He says, yes. Do we have emotions? I will have to explain to him what are emotions. And of course you must be the master of mind. He was looking at me and he just, he wanted just to play a little. Said but do we have a mind? I don’t know if you have or you don’t have. Just where from shall we be provided the stuff you call mind, sir? So, if he knew to use the mind he would be sure about the existence of mind and he could control and know and study his emotions. He would know what are emotions.
35’00”
So, how are people live now around us? This is good for a psychotherapist
and psychiatrist to know and learn about it. I have put the question to a psychiatrist the other day, speaking to him about our subconsciousness. Yes, sometimes they use this word but what’s that they told me Daskale? I said my goodness. Unless you know what’s your subconsciousness, how you work with it? Then again I put you the question some of you are psychotherapists. Maybe psychiatrists. You know what‘s your subconsciousness? Do you make conscious or self-conscious use of it? I doubt. I don’t mean to offend you but I doubt. So, how we should get to know about our subconsciousness? By concentration, meditation, and observation and getting control of our emotions and of our thoughts. And then we have a double gain. Controlling and knowing who we are who control. This is the double gain. Then we start to realize what is self-consciousness. If I ask you now to make a distinction between consciousness and self-consciousness, can you do that? And many of you are doubting why is he using the word consciousness and self-consciousness? They are two very very different things. To live consciously and live self-consciously and you need practice to know the difference and to know who you are now who are living self-consciously. So, I’ll put in more plain words. To know what’s mind-thought and to know what’s mind-emotion. To know what’s mind-matter because everything is Mind. You must study them separately, analyze them, and by observation come to your conclusions. There is no other way. Does it lead to what people say self-upliftment? They use the word self without realizing that they are telling the truth. Yes, self-upliftment means self-realization. Knowing the self. And if you put them the question “what is the self?” They are coming to me Sir, want you just to instruct us how we should having self-upliftment. I said analyze what you are asking me and you can find it. Find who you are as a self. As an ego. As an I-ness. Now, how do people around us are living now and how they should live to live properly? As people are living all around us everyday. In the time of Christ, Joshua the Lord, people were living also the same condition.
40’00”
That means consciously, not self-consciously. What does it mean, consciously? Getting up in the morning, dress themselves out of habit, wash themselves, just go to their work routine? Custom? Do it mechanically? Not self-consciously. Not being able to control their emotions, their feelings, and their behavior, their expressions. That’s what I said subconsciously living. Eat, and again, out of habit or because they felt hungry. Go back to their home. Maybe quarrel or just expressing themselves according to their circumstances. Not masters of the
circumstances but slaves of the circumstances. And then get to sleep to wake up next day to do the same, and the same, and the same out of habit. Living subconsciously, not self-consciously. Now, what do I mean live self-consciously? And why do these people we say they’re living subconsciously? Because they’re the slaves of their emotions and the thoughts serving their emotions. They are not masters of themselves to control the emotions and be the masters of the circumstances to be self-aware. Being the slaves of what I call egoism which is the sum total of the elementals they have already created by this way of living and not being able to use mind and thought now in creating creative elementals and not elementals to make them their slave. This is the difference. Sometime, someone hearing the teachings of Christ found it, the teachings of Life, said to the Master, sir I want to follow you but I will wait until my father and mother pass over so that I will have time to come to you because I want just to bury my father and mother and then come to you. He said let the dead bury their own dead. What does He mean? Let the dead bury their own dead. These were the words of Christ to this fellow. He was considering as dead those living subconsciously. Now who would be living according to Christ? Those who are living self-consciously, knowing who they are, what they are, masters of circumstances. Masters of their bodies, the emotions, and the thoughts. Now we come to the most important part of the lesson today. How can we be masters of our emotions and become free of their enchantment and slavery to them? We must start analyzing our present day personality and what we find? That our present day personality is the sum total of the elementals we have created, cast them out, and have returned to us.
44’57”
And the quality of our present day personality, or of our egoism, which you mistake that it’s our ego which it’s not. Then the quality of our present day personality or of our ego is the quality of these elementals. Now, who is to study these elementals? Who will just criticize the behavior of the present day personality and who, after knowing the truth, will come to conclusions and decisions? Then you will find yourself, you will start feeling self-conscious. Of course all the time the egoism will present itself to claim that isn’t you, the ego, but IT, the egoism. He’ll say no, no, no. I can check you now. I can analyze that substance stuff which created you. That means my emotions and the thoughts serving those emotions and now I can change my emotions. I can change my attitude towards life. I can change my behavior towards all the other human beings around me. Till this present moment I was obeying you thinking that I was you but now I find
that I am a different ego who can reason now while you, you don’t use reason. You use the emotions and the more violent are the emotions, the more you try to become my master. Now, what are you offering me or offering yourself?
End Part A