R-Daskalos-Jan 8, 1991 (m).mp transcription by rr
…thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is on heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, forgive us our transpirations as we are forgiving those who are transpiring against us, and lead us while in temptation, deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power and the glory, forever. Absolute Infinite Beingness, God, everlasting life, love and mercy, manifesting yourself in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightiness, enlighten our minds to understand you are the truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen.
A human being finds himself, or herself, living in a human body. Living in this material plane, nature, all around us. All this nature, all around us, is all the time influencing us, drawing our attention, through the five senses. We are living in this material world, with our material body, using the five senses. But how we are living? Just simply counteracting to the influences through the five senses? What is this kind of life, in what we call the material world around us?
Usually, we call ‘life’ the interest we show in what we call the material world all around us. But is it what we should call ‘life’? We call life just all those influences as the actions in us causing us interest, what we might say desire, and thinking over these desires.
Now, most people do not use the thought, just thinking and knowing what is what, but simply how this thought to serve the accomplishment of their desire. Nothing more than that. So human beings are living subconsciously, without knowing why they are living and what’s life. That would this question to people around me, “what’s life?” Would they be able to reply, “what’s life?” What do you think that they may understand that it is life? Feeling. Seeing. Being influenced. By surroundings, what is in the world outside of our material body, and receiving impressions. Through the light, the light. You ask them “what’s light?” What is the role of light in our life? They never care. They simply live in their material bodies, as the other phenomena of life are living, waking up in the morning, a phenomena they never engage themselves to understand
what it is.
What’s living? What’s waking up? Who is waking up? What they care, seem the human beings now is
05’00”
how to fulfill their desires, or just the necessities of life. And so they find out that there are certain things which are most necessary. Taking food. Searching for food. And they do it instinctively, like all the other living beings around them are doing. Just expressing what you call ‘instincts’. But we said in previous lessons, the human being can use thought, which the other phenomena of life in the animal kingdom cannot use it. Yet we can see a kind of intelligence in their expression, but what are these intelligences expressed by the animals? Is it using the Mind, consciously? Self-consciously? All these are other expressions.
Now studying the behavior of the animal, we can detect the intelligence behind them, caring about those kinds of animals around us. The human being can see that he can influence all the animals, even the vegetable life around them, the human being can influence them, subconsciously by thought. That means by casting elementals, which elementals are living. Think can affect the animal life all around us. They do all that subconsciously, without knowing so what they do.
A human being, since she loves animals, cats, dogs, and other kinds of animals, is keeping them with him, and he finds that there is a common ground of understanding between the animal and the human being. Is that intelligence of the animal? Or subconsciously the human being is creating and elemental, which is attached to the animal and making that animal, that kind of life, bring that animal to him or to her? By what? By what we say “love”, interest, compassion. So you are study all these cases, to understand after all, “what is animal life? what is?” I am life. What common thing we have with the life all around us?
So, a human being, has the right and should use the Mind in many things. In understanding things. By observation, and meditation, and reasoning, something animals around us cannot do. And you’ll find out that all animal life around us can express an instinctive, let us call it subconsiousness, which he or she is expressing also. But an animal, any kind of animals
around us, cannot express a self-consciousness, have a name of itself, unless we give it a name. And he may listen to that name through the elementals you are casting and implanting in that animal.
So, a human being should use the Mind, to study what’s nature around him, living? What are the circumstances, the possibilities, and probabilities, in this what we call life in a material body in the material world,
10’00”
so that we should go forward, in studying what is this kind of self, which we can express which we can express, yet no animal around us in the material plane can express. That self-hood.
Mind, when I say ‘self’, it’s not simply using the mind in certain expressions, as instinct, or even sub-consciousness, consciousness. The animal is conscious of it’s way of living. All animals obey instincts. Now, what’s the instinct? You can see these things in all the nature around us. By studying it, we shall understand that kind of intelligence behind the phenomena of life, all the phenomena of life.
Not only I say in the animal kingdom, also in the vegetable kingdom. And we see much wisdom in it. That means we can place the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness in all the creation around us. And really, one should be wondering with this wisdom. Why would we observe that this wisdom serves for the protection of this kind of animal life or plant life in the material world. And you’ll be wondering “who is thinking? Is there any self-intelligence being behind it? Sometime was studying the cat. Many many, thousands of times, and each kind, the characteristic will see the protection. It has to protect itself from the etos?] from the animals all around. And a kind of purpose is developing. So. Who thought about? To protect that kind of life? And then another kind of protection.
A deer. I’m meeting a deer in the fall. The an?] will find it, having a white of?] and there in the forests of Africa, for example, will have a brown. Why? The one to resemble the ice, the other to resemble the tracts of the trees and the surroundings. Again for protection. Who designed them to do that?
So we see, in nature, all around us, a kind of life we cannot understand, yet, behind every kind of life, enough protection. Even studying the forms, in which this animal life is expressed, we’ll find again that protection. You call it the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness. But this total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness is expressed also in the Being is the Absolute Infinite Beingness, manifesting and expressing the Absolute Infinite Beingness and themselves, in the creation.
So by observation and using the mind, we can learn many many things. And we find ourselves, living in an environment, in nature, most wisely looked after. And the only entity which is making blunders, in the human being. The human being, entitled to use the Mind, reasoning and thinking over things,
15’00”
Of course, he should do less blunders and in a better way of life by using the Mind. Now is the human being protected as adequately as all other animal and vegetable life around him? A yes, and no. Why? We see a cat. Dogs. Animals. What is winter is approaching? They grow hair to protect them from the cold. Who decided about it? Those keeping domestic animals you will notice that in cats. And when summer approaches, the cats don’t wear the hair, just to have it again when the winter period approaches. Is it the intelligence of that animal that is doing such things?
No. And by observation and studying, developing in a human being higher forms of intelligence, he can come in touch with those intelligences, we call them Angels or nature spirits, who look after the animal and the vegetable life all around us. And can place, this total wisdom of the Almightiness. Can place order in nature and in the creation.
So, studying now things. Why you should start to study, that Mind by etherial vibrations we call light, of light, it’s most necessary in our life. Again I say those etherial vibrations and frequencies of the substance we call the Mind. One sees that light emanates from the sun. And from anything combustible, burning, giving a flame. Who did care to study ‘what is fire? what is light?’
Yet subconsciously man started using the fire without knowing what it is.
Human beings found out that this element we call it fire, behaves in that or in that way, on the combustible material things, and he is using it but doesn’t really care what it is. And why is he like that? So, the human being today is lacking what I call observation, and using the Mind now, and observation, and concentration, to find the relative truth in the material world all around us.
Now let us see what’s light. The effects of light. During a very dark night, you find yourself in this room. No light emanating from candles or anywhere. Dark. The chairs are here, everything that is here now would be here. You don’t see anything. You decide to move about you’ll stumble here and there. So light is necessary just to excite what we call the sight. That sense of seeing. Whoever did care to study this phenomenon? What is light? What is going on?
Now, we have light emanating now. Filling the room with light. How do we see things? The light, just in rays,
20’00”
lighting on surfaces, only surfaces, the material light cannot penetrate solid surfaces, and if you reflect it, man has to study all these things. Reflected, in what direction, the front of the surface, lighting. And these rays of light, emanating from the sun, [thuggfu?] very far away, coming, at, traveling and distance is seen crossing them from the place they’re reflected. How is that? I am under a tree, I see everything right here, full, that’s right here in the branches of the trees. I can see them. I go far away, and going away, I see that thing smaller. Why? Till I go to such a certain distance, that that tree just only a form, [finish?]. Cannot distinguish anything. Of that tree, I saw so beautiful, with fruits, with flowers, and be with branches and everything and birds flying in them. Yet, I am provided with a telescope. [slongteres?] [singfeed?] i see the clear sea just very near that tree. I can see the branches, the leaves, and if there is fruit in it, I can see birds flying in it. Only I cannot hear anything.
Now we have seeing and hearing, another sense. Why cannot hear anything, yet I can see it? Now it means that there are certain meanings, which can detach these rays, coming from there, in such a distance now, again, as they were whenever [we’re retained?]. And I can see it with a magnifying glass, I can see being there. And now what’s distance then?
is distance real? You have to study all that.
And this is what happens outside. The behavior of what we call the etherial light, in carrying forms, images, characteristics and color. Then the color. Now, who cares what are the colors, and study? What are colors? Yet, it’s our whole life, living in a world giving us colors, the light, and impressions. Now it’s what happens outside our material body.
Now let us study seeing. What does it mean ‘seeing?’ What do we see? We see the real things outside, since distance is changing, our impressions… what do we see? Now we see that, when the light is striking on a surface, it is reflected carrying with it the form and the color and shape and everything with it. It’s carrying it. How? Why? There are characteristics of light which should be studied. What they do? These rays of light? They need just a very very small, like the head of a pin, the form and the colors and everything of these things the light was reflected upon, coming to us, just in front of our eyes, in our eyes, the back of the eye. I’ve seen [blodthat]
25’00”
on both the eyes. And that, light, give the irritation, inside the eye, irritates, why you call the optic nerve, now until that point, you have the light. External light. That irritation is passed certain centers in the brain, and the brain is enclosed in the skull. It’s a kind of matter. Substance. Matter. That’s not irritation. Because by the optic nerve, in certain centers in the brain, is giving out the sense of seeing and feeling that we are just in the space around us. Are we there? That’s how we interpret seeing.
Who [?] analyze that? So what happened is just interpret this irritation. A center vibrations. In which light now? This image is according to the light. There, having an image, in our eyes. But from the optic nerve inwards to the brain, there is no light. Yet, by what kind of light now I see? I say “I see.” And again, who sees? [For me, who you, foment?] your material body, who are you, that’s interpreting, is that the word, this phenomenon of seeing [a thing?]. So the only thing that you do is just, just interpreting those ether vibrations in a center, center of your material brain. Suppose you can repeat it you can [sitting?]
Why not be able to repeat those vibrations and see things? But these
things I’ll see are real. Are the other things real? So not only vibrations you are interpreting? And can you, just create certain things which do not exist. And you don’t know, [unint.] subconsciously, [unint.].
You find yourself, lying on your bed with closed eyes, the medical doctor there will see that the pulse is lowered, ‘this person is sleeping’, yet you are not sleeping. Where are you? We said, “seeing is just interpreting certain etherial vibrations in a certain center of your material brain.” Now you are interpreting also vibrations, again etherial vibrations, in which center in the material brain? Now, from where you get them? You may see being there a very beautiful garden. Observing seeing nice flowers, smelling them even, because these senses are not only in the material plane, the are not of the material plane, the extension to the material plane of these senses. [unint.] …a nice garden, a nice landscape, near the sea everywhere and wake up in the morning, and you remember just ‘that was a dream’, so it was not real. I’m telling you it’s more real, because that’s more you, than what you are interpreting by what we call sight through the material eyes.
Why? Because through the material eyes, you cannot observe so many things coming from outside. Inside you, because now you can use your powerful observation, thinking in a much better way. You’ll find out when you see it. When you develop,
30’00”
develop your self-consciousness, in the psychical body, living in what we call the psychical world, that that world is more real that this material world, because there you can use what I call concentration and observation in a much better way than you do through the material brain. And you reach now to which conclusion? Who is doing that? Who am I? What I was knowing until the present moment what I am, a material body, moving it about, two hands, working with them, do this or that. I’m telling you, human beings living today on the planet, are living 80% subconsciously. Very few are living consciously. They are living sub-consciously, and putting all the impressions, again, subconsiously, in that part of the personality, again, the psychical body, which you call sub-consciousness.
And if you call life, but is that, then, the life? So human beings, instead of living a whole period of life in a material body, growing and growing from
childhood and then to adulthood, to advanced age, eating, sleeping, making love, doing things, getting certain skills, all subconsciously, believe them they don’t, they are not different from all the other human life around them. And that’s not the purpose of life in a human body. It’s in developing the sense of self-hood. So I say that 80% of the people living around them, the express a self without knowing what is that self they are expressing. You say “how is that?” Because they are living instinctively and subconsciously. They are not self-conscious. They express a self, yes, definitely, the shadow of their real self, as we call it the present day personality. But who knows what is this present day personality.
I’ll get even more plain. Find somebody “what’s your body?, you know your body [not-of-lessing?] you have a body you call it yours. Living in a body, you are moving it about. Going. Walking. And with your hands you have the hands, you get the skill of using it, you have doing this or that work. What are you doing, how does that work?” What’s movement, what’s motion, what’s energy? Where from do you find energy in that material body. Do you know? So you are living sub-consciously.
Then again, you see certain things around you. I depends upon the person, the personality. They may eat lunch with these things. You may desire to approach them, know them, what are these things? Why, what’s that feeling drawing to the other things to go near them, and know what they are? ‘[My-chot?] they are. Another thing happens inside you. I want it. What does it mean “I want it”? Who are you? What’s you? What’s that? What is that thing, I want it, I want it? To see it,
35’00”
to have it, to possess it, to call it mine. Why? Whoever made an analysis of what happens, to know what is desire.
Human beings all day long under the burden of so many so called desires. With just vibrations of his so-called psychical body without knowing that he has a psychical body. Now using his psychical body, the material body, again sub-consciously. Then I set forward. Subconsciously, a fellow, encounters difference of things around him, which have created those feelings, I call it devilish, and I’ll explain why. Of possessing and having, definitely devilish because he or she tried to deprived them from the other. Why, we should study all these reactions in the personality, then,
subconsciously like [unint.] in using the Mind. Subconsciously. How can I accomplish this desire? Enslaving the Mind, as thought, to the desire. That’s what, weakening the Mind, strengthening to mind this desire, becoming visible that desire. Now studying things you will know what are elementals, and how he enslaves himself, or herself, in certain elementals we call them emotion-thought elements. Who studies all these things?
Just to free himself or herself from illusions [curling?] [and got follows?] even after all those impressions and vibrations. What follows? When a desire is fulfilled, and you get that thing you want, in your… something, a car, a house, something like that, calling it your… when a desire is fulfilled, it makes you feel tired of it. Why? A new desire arises, not one maybe two or three or more at a time, torturing us. If they are fulfilled, they make us tired. When they are fulfilled, they lose their value. For us, what you have given them, how overvalued them, in time we didn’t have them, and wanted them, something else comes. Who studies all of this? Things happening in a personality. You have to! Because all of these things giving the human being pain! Agony! Anxiety! Despair many times. And then, when we said these things are fulfilled, you undervalue them now and you have other desires in front of you, if they are fulfilled, if they are not fulfilled, then it is the worst reaction. You saw that people around you “why this is [ad?] for them and not for me?” And then, who was the cause? That this desire of mine has not been fulfilled? Another reaction - hating. Enmity. Jealosy - why the others have it, I don’t have it? - who really have started studying all these reactions in the personalities? Pain, agony, making life miserable. Why? Who tried to find why life is miserable now? If you put the question
40’00”
to one hundred persons, from a millionaire, to the poorest, are you happy? How many of these will say they are? Maybe none. Because in reality, nothing can make you happy, except knowing who you are. The pleasure is in knowing who we are. The self-realization. And then, everything outside is rubbish. You will not have it. The material plane. Of course, we can have everything. But if you have them, what caused lacking? Most of the people do not have them. Why, not all people should have this called satisfaction that you will know happiness? Why those who have everything are not happy? Because as [reayd?] they cannot estimate what they have. It’s good having. Nature is good. Everything in good.
All around us. Unless everything goes good, the total wisdom of the Almighty would not create it. Everything created is good. Are we in it? Yes! Why not.
Christ first [unint.] Christ said, “Ask and it will be given to you, knock and it will open to you.” There are not prohibitions. But he said something else. Search for the kingdom of the Heaven which is in you, and everything will be added to you. And then you are sure, that what you have is yours. Otherwise, you have the fear of losing everything. Now you are sure you have everything, not granted to you, by right of having it. You are a god. You find yourself as god. You know who you are now. Now you can enjoy everything, and value everything.
So, when is this wrong, in undervaluing things, because they make you tired? Because they created in you so much effort, when they have been accomplished, you find you are tired of them. Now this is something wrong. Because, in coming this attitude, towards things given to you, granted to you, because nothing happens unless it is the will of God. When Pontius Pilot told Christ, “Don’t you know I have the authority of releasing you or crucifying you?”, he said, “You have no authority on me, unless it is given you from above.” And he said, “that not even a leaf can drop from a tree unless it is the will of God.”
[tape half over]
…here she have it because it’s the will of God. Otherwise it wouldn’t have it. But then again you say ‘why? I don’t have so much.”, I say “won’t you have?”, “The others have much more than I have.” “Who taught you that you cannot have? No, if you want, and you know the way to ask for it, there are not limitations now.” Then say now, “how?” How? By using the Mind properly. “How? I say. The other fellow is very very lucky.”
45’00”
I’m not suggesting as ‘luck’. Before God, all human beings are equal. And all human beings have granted equally the gifts of God, which is breathing. Being able to think. Everybody can do that, but, how do we use these Divine Gifts? Do we use them properly? Giving material things now. Getting the material things. Do we value them, according to their real value? Or we get them, enslaving ourselves only, in these things,
without caring more about ‘what are we’? ‘who are we?’ ‘why these things have been handed to us?’
So. I tell you. These material bodies very very beautiful. All material things are very nice and beautiful. We are here living, and we have the right of enjoying everything. You have that right. And you have given the right, to ask. Now studying the elementals, I’m telling you that whatever a man had ever desired having, he or she will have it. Sooner or later, depends upon what we call the strength of that desire. But this ‘when’. You must give it time to work.
One fellow is born rich, in a rich family. The other was born very very poor, somewhere. I had these questions, ‘how do you say sir, there are not lucky persons?’ I insist, there are not lucky persons. It is how they made use of the mind as desire. When someone has a desire, and there are laws and causes that this desire will not be fulfilled now, that elemental will never be dis-energized before that desire is fulfilled. So an elementals is living much much longer period of life that the human being is living in his material body. And all those desires, those elementals, composing his or her personality, accompany the psychical body, called [unint.] the psychically body, these elementals are coming out. Will be there working. Even if the man left his material body, living in the psychical world, and for some time in the noetical world and coming right back, they are working to create the circumstances for the accomplishment of that desire.
So those who are rich and both rich and have everything is because they have worked on these things, in previous incarnations. They have the right having it. Because God is granting plentifully for. And the others, who do not have them, they have to work now, having them, seeing them, desiring them, but, they have the right of using the most precious gift which is the Mind, as sober thought and good thinking. If they start the wrong way, Father will not give them until they come to their senses. Sometimes very rich people are losing that framework. Why? To get the next lesson. You have it? You don’t make good use of it. Hold the other things all yourself. You are slave of it.
50’00”
God is wheat throwing, depriving you to wake us up. And where then is up? Not giving back, but giving much much more. It is the
circumstances, the circumstances are created, and the law of karma, of cause and effect, works accordingly, to the elementals we have built up even in the past. And they work.
Somebody will say “why our desires are not fulfilled immediately?” Because we don’t give them time to work. You have a desire. You get your elemental. You bring it back, thinking of it again, it goes out, you bring it back, you have the intern[al] desire of having these things. You don’t give it time to work.
When you have another desire and will forget about it, then you give it time to work. Many people are coming to me and say ‘Daskale, you know, I had that and that and that desire which have not been fulfilled the time I wanted,” because the time you wanted it most intensely, you didn’t give it time to work. What, you have left it free, to have a work? Ahh, now that, things came and I have that, now what’s wrong, having it now? You wanted it so strongly, you have it now. What do you want more?
Everybody will notice that desires, is fulfilled, when you forget about them. Forgetting about them at least giving them time to work. Because I am repeating, no elemental of any desire, can be disenergized before the purpose for which it has been created has been fulfilled. But, we must see now, that our desire, of today, which seems so important, may not be stumbling stones on our way in another incarnation. So we have to use reason.
Now if desire, or elementals created subconsciously can work, consciously created desire can work better. Be fulfilled in a shorter period of time. But you must know how the elementals are working, how to free ourselves from the elementals, give them time to work, and after all, know what we are creating. When a desire comes to us, do we really want it to be fulfilled? But it’s just that moment’s feeling and if it is fulfilled, it is stepping stone in our way. So we have to think reasonably.
In this way you have classified the elementals in two classes. The emotions toward the elemental - these are too many, created by everybody - without checking, and without reason. They will be fulfilled sooner or later. That’s the law. And that class of the elementals we call the thought elementals, thought form elementals having just anguish in it, not an ardent desire and unbridled desire, which are fulfilled sooner. And this is the
elemental which a human being should create consciously now. Self-consciously later.
What is the meaning of life and living?
55’00”
Life and living - because these elementals - the two classes of elementals are composing our present day personality. And the purity, and the nature, of our present day personality, is the nature and the purity of these elementals.
And by these elementals, we are creating, every moment, our psychical shell around our psychical body, which is creating our shell hell or shell paradise. In which we are now, and will find ourselves, after passing over leaving the material body.
So the purpose of life is knowing the truth, which truth, according to Joshua the Christ, will set us free from illusions, and from trouble. So the main thing one should learn, and know, is the nature of the Mind in all its states of existence, super-substance, substance, etherial, and gross matter. And our life in this world, not only the material world, the other worlds, the psychical and the noetical, what’s the aim behind it? Knowing the worlds. Not suffering in the worlds - that’s a blasphemy against God. But feeling happy, satisfied, in these worlds, the material, the psychical and the noetical, until we find out that we are what we are. Not the shadow of ourselves, which is in time and place, the personality. It’s all the same - changing and changing and changing. To find our real self now, this, the self realization, I’ll put it in the words of Christ: seek the kingdom of the heavens, and everything, everything, will be added to you. He didn’t say certain things will be added to you. Said the material things only will be added to you, or psychical, everything will be added to you.
But we should find the kingdom of the heavens, which are -you-. The kingdom of the heavens is ‘in’ you, not ‘inside’ you. In your nature as self-consciousness. As god. Now you say “is it wrong, to wish, to desire having certain things?” Of course no! You have eyes, and you see, and of course there is no law that you shouldn’t have what you like having. God the Father created everything around us. Not only for human beings, but all phenomena of life, so denying yourself is not right. Having, and
being satisfied of having, there is nothing wrong in it. What’s wrong - enslaving the self, even the petty time and place self, your personality, in these things, which are not permanent, they are changing, they are passing, so, there is nothing wrong, in desiring and the desires to be under reason and the Mind, under your decision. God did not create all these things around us, prohibiting us having them or enjoying them. Is not just a sadist Father, see - you should not have it. No!
And what the Heavenly Father has created in the material world is good and holy. And we are allowed having anything we like, but not as slaves as self under those things. Besides, enslaving yourself, to certain things, you can’t
60’00”
have more. You are enslaving yourself to certain things from. And Christ said “seek the kingdom of the heavens and everything - why have some things, and not everything? - in all the worlds. Now what are these ‘everything’ and how one can have everything? I must say that I’m not allowed to speak more. Only, because you not understand. We have to develop in our present day personality self, those conditions, of purifying it, casting away, shadows, illusions, desires - not cleaning the desires - no need to kill desires - nobody ever managed to kill an elemental - disenergized it, yes. Only, energizing again. So we have to study all these things concerning the Mind, the using of the Mind, the elementals, control them, instead of being under their influence. The masters of everything. Everything.
Now, let us see the life of Christ, and what he has done, people are calling ‘miracles’. And why he has done it? These gentlemen, his disciples went just to fish and have some fish to serve, get money for their family. They couldn’t do anything. Who created the circumstances of not having anything? By themselves, being antimagnetic, not drawing things toward them but, departing. How? By not believing they could fish that day. So this psychical disposition are upsetting everything around them. So, all the night were trying to fish, and have some, and they got nothing. Said, ‘go again, now with me, bring with me.” You find this in the New Testament, Bible.
They went, two fishing boats. With Peter and with the others. They
couldn’t just throw out the nets. The caught so much fish, that nearly the fishing boats were going down - they were looking at him, how did he gather all that fish, for them? Magic? No.
But showing them another example. How? Yes, we can gather living fish and come in the nets and you bring it, tells him. But I can provide you with cooked, and ready fish. From these that are around. They are looking at him. They are [marked?] preaching them teaching them giving them psychical food. But Christ thought that they were hungry and still must need material food. And he thought of providing even that. He said to his disciples “Look here, all these people are worried. Tired. He’s telling to me, move, who can[’t?], said them ‘go’ ‘hungry’. They are looking at him, “what do we have here?” Said, “two fish, and five little loaves of bread”. “Tell them to sit down.” Sat down. Said, “Bring them.” He blessed them. Started working with them. giving them giving them without being exhausted, two fish and the [ibles?] little loaves of bread. They were looking at him. He gave food. Fish and bread, to five thousand men, except the
65’00”
women and the children on one occasion, and repeating this again for a second time, maybe to stimulate more their faith, he gave fish and bread to four thousand again, except the women and children that occasion. I believe he had done it on many many occasions, but they just mention only two occasions. Which means, where from he got all that substance. From reason? Yes. He knew how to transform substance into matter. And what is God doing all the time for us? Is God the Father not doing this to our eyes now without being able to see it? All the food you need after a year does not exist now.
You constantly say, from water, from circumstances, for [ong?] things to grow. Where are those things you will eat, after a year? As animal flesh and all these things, do they exist now? No. But is not the same miracle repeated all the time? Yes. God is creating the creation now. We are gods. We can develop enough this creating ability. But we must be able to find the kingdom of the heavens which is within us to be able to do all that.
So where is not the wrong in enslaving ourselves in little or more or more things, you may say much, yes, from certain point of view, but much means
everything. You can have everything. Once a fellow learns how to use the ether around us - we are like little fish swimming in an ocean of energy - and yet we say ‘I feel I don’t have enough energy’. Just a little fish, swimming in an ocean of water, saying ‘there is no water’. Nothing more stupid. So we have to just know which is this energy which is the Mind. Use the Mind. And find who we are, being able to use the Mind. But to reach to that point, we must know how to construct - avoid to use for the time being the word ‘create’ - these elemental - you are doing so now subconsciously and most awkwardly - consciously and later self-consciously.
To be able to do that, you must find in us, our real nature, which is the kingdom of the heavens which is in us. Our Father who art in Heaven. In us. Hallowed be thy name. How? Just by realizing what is that name, God? Thy kingdom come. On earth. In our material bodies. As it is in Heaven in your heavens everywhere. Who understood just this prayer? The only one prayer Joshua Immanuel the Christ has given. He didn’t give any other prayer. [sonduar?] that we should enter in the meaning of this prayer.
So, what is our aim is first to understand who we are as human being the shadow of the self having in it the pulse of life which is our real self. Find out the difference between the shadow, petty, time and place created self, which is nothing more than your egoism, the sum total of your emotions and thoughts - of those elementals. Start now consciously at the beginning, creating
70’00”
constructive elementals, not leading to that state of our material, earthly self which is the egoism, that extracted it’s price from me, its influence and its powers over nearly everything concerning our life. Master it, until we get the experiences in the material world and teach that little devil called the egoism that ‘your behavior and works are evil - the parts of life in you, is me. You are not ‘me’… I and you. And I can purify you and change you, and draw you back as the pulse of life.’ Which means are not going to hate our present day personality. For God’s sake. You are going just to transmute it. To our real self. Nobody hates his children. He loves them, even if they are naughty. They all grow up.
So, our aim is not destroying or dissolving but transmuting, changing to the inner reality. Tomorrow, we speak more about the creation of elementals - this subject is never exhausted. But you have just to study the desires, the emotions, how they are created, how we see them in a different light than the light emanating from the sun. From another kind of light, the psychical light who is giving knowledge and understanding. This light, emanating from the sun or from any object, is giving you the sense of a knowing the existence of certain things. It does not give you - this light - understanding. But there’s another light, purer light, the psychical light, the noetical light, and still there is the Great Light, which is the light which is never extinguished. Which is Joshua Immanuel the Christ love the self-hood. “I am the light of the world.” He didn’t say ‘I am the light of the sun’. But “I am the light of the world”. And of course we shall understand then, the sentences with which Johanna or Saint John the Divine starts his gospel. “In him is life, and the life is the light of men” - you’ll analyze even that. Now, we make a meditation.
73’53”
Relax completely. Feel you are in the material body, from the toes to the head. See that you are relaxed completely, the material body.
This minute, and always, in this material body you are now, calling it yours, definitely not yourself. The heart is beating, it started beating, at the time of your birth, and it will continue beating, until the silver cord joining your other bodies with you material body will be broken. So the silver cord, one end is in your material heart, and that silver cord is making your heart beat.
Try to feel the pulse of life in your body. You are living. Who, you, living in that material body? Your personality, yet having in it the pulse of life which is you. The personality is not you, personality is the sum total of your elementals. And the egoism is the expression of these elementals, good or bad. It’s not you. You are the pulse of life - the pulse of life is the selfhood. You have to study who you are as a human being now, living in this material body, and by studying that you will be able just to concentrate your attention and the observation on the other bodies. And you’ll develop what we call the self-consciousness.
Who do you think you are as a man or as a woman? You are breathing, you started breathing at the time you were born and will be breathing until
you leave the last breath and leave the material body. You are breathing subconsciously. But now you can control breath, you can breathe consciously, and later to be taught to breathe self-consciously. Now you are breathing the vital energy [or in die?] around you in the air you are breathing. But that’s not all. Now start breathing deeply, consciously, feel the air filling your lungs. Feel you are filling the lungs with this vital energy. Now you are working on the etheric double of your material body. Fill your body with this energy. You have to value this material body of yours, and value the work done, using the total wisdom and the Divine plan, the Holy Archangels, the Lords of the Elements, you brethren in Spirit.
A great work every moment is accomplished in your material body. Even the nails of your hands, your toes are growing. Every hair is growing. Feel that you are completely relaxed in your material body. And ask, from the Lords of the Elements, and the Lord of the Selfhood, human Selfhood, Christ, to give perfect health in your material body. He’s willing to do so, if you don’t interfere with the work of the Holy Archangels, in living in a disturbed way. Feel completely relaxed in your material body and put this question, “who am I really, a man or a woman?” Without knowing in reality, who I am, yet I feel I know. But I must know so that I’ll know, later, what I am, as a Spirit-Ego-Self-consciousness.
82’47”
Enough. Now. Let us work also on the psychical plane a little, by what you call seeing by the Mind, visualization, by visualizing. Later, we shall know what it means remembering or bringing from the sub-consciousness to the surface of our self-consciousness images, elementals.
Bring in front of you a certain face, man or a woman, you have certain differences which have created enmity, hatred, certain other feelings. Bring that person in front of you now. And see from your heart, emanating a sun of rosy light. The rays of rosy light emanating from a sun in your heart. Keep covering the [view’s?] face of that fellow, man or a woman, with that light of your heart, and see that person smiling, satisfied. And tell that person that you love him or love her. Love now has different meaning to you. That’s real love. You wish nothing evil to come on that person. See that person smiling, satisfied. Doesn’t mean that you’ll approach again, on the material plane, make the approach mentally, Enough.
85’35”
Feelings like complaints, hatreds, jealousy, enmity, are dangerous poisons in your system. They may create cancer, abscess, and many many other illnesses. So it is for your own sake to banish these feeling from you. Loving your enemies, you are benefiting yourself by casting out dangerous poisons.
Because all illnesses are caused by these poisons in our system. The meditation my daughter is giving you is on a higher plane, the noetical and the psychical. They are most necessary. But you must start also purifying the material body and the etheric double. There also, through the etheric double, in the higher realness of consciousness.
87’04”
[recording ends]