1991.01.07 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
If someone would just put the question to us “what is life?” , what must you reply: “What do you mean by Life?” Life, itself, or phenomena of Life? There is much difference now, between Life and the phenomena of Life.
Life is the Absolute Beingness, God. Then what are we? A second question: “We are living, are we life?” This of course needs much meditation to reply. Because if we say “yes, we are life”. Of course this is correct, but, who is life now? And when we say “we”, what do we mean by “we”? If we mean our present day personality, that means a kind of intelligence expressing itself and living in a material body, we are not life. We are a phenomenon of life, just as the other phenomena of life all around us. Billions of phenomena of life, from the worm, the amoeba, the butterfly, the ants, the animals, the trees… all these are phenomena of life. What is our relation now? To life, and to the phenomena of life? We partake of the two.
We must first of all study ourselves as a phenomenon of life so that we see ‘can we proceed further than a phenomenon of life?’ To see in us now, life, because all great teachers, and saviors, all over the world, said the same things. They say that we are gods and sons of the Almighty. That’s true, but who? We, as human beings, a kind of intelligence living in a material body, expressing, in the world of the separation from the whole, desires, emotions, varying in quality, and weaknesses. Are we, as present day personality male or female, the life? gods? or the phenomenon of life. So it needs much thought, in the form of meditation on the subject.
Now, what is our movement, our system, we call it ‘the researchers or the seekers of the truth”. Just that. To study ourselves, as phenomena of life, we study everything around us, as the phenomena of life, to understand what is life as a phenomenon. And then go deep in the matter, and study who we really are. This is the most serious study and science of sciences. All other sciences is studying conditions and things in the
material plane only. Is there not any other system? Just like that? Yes, what we call ‘theology’ in all the religions. And they have failed. Until times they have failed. Why they have failed? Because they don’t concentrate forward and seriously on the study of matter, but they loiter about on the material conditions on the material plane, gaining money, making religion commerce and industry. That’s why they have failed.
05’00”
Buddhism has failed. Christianity has failed. Other kinds of religions have failed. So there is no hope? Of course there is, because in deep, in the root of all religions is the truth, and anyone serious who wants to proceed in studying this thing, whether he’s a Hindu, a Buddhist, a Christian, a Muslim, or even beyond that, a philosopher, sincere with his studies, he can reach the truth. That is why we are calling our movement, ‘seekers of the truth’, following the instructions of Joshua the God-Man Christ, who said “know the truth, and the truth will liberate you”. From what?
Definitely from ignorance. But what’s ignorance now? Can he know what is the truth, living on the material plane in a material body? And interested only on time and place based problems? Yes, we can approach the relative truth, that means the truth concerning the subjects we’re studying. Studying, we’ll find that maybe this this false, this is not the truth, and the truth is still behind it, but truth, something true concerning time and place space conditions, circumstances and things is the relative truth.
So, this is what we can do by reasoning now, concentrating on circumstances and on things we want to know. Then you tell me “what is the truth?” You are speaking about the relative truth. Anything we want to know, and reach to sober and reasonable conclusions, concerning time and place based things is giving only the relative truth. The real truth is beyond that.
Which is the truth? We said that in the invocation we made after the Lord’s Prayer, Infinite Beingness, God, Life, Love and Mercy, manifesting yourself in yourself, everything is in the Absolute Beingness. Nothing can exist and be unless it is in the Absolute Beingness. So the Absolute Beingness is everywhere we can conceive: space and place. So everything is manifested in the Absolute Beingness. We cannot escape
from it, we are in it. And the Absolute Beingness is in us.
Now, see that, the Absolute Beingness is everywhere, we are in it. As phenomena of life we are in it. It is in us as the energy and what I call the Divine Etheric Vitality prolonging the phenomena of life in the material body. That’s not that. We are life. You have to realize that you are not only a phenomenon of life, living in a material body, and then investigating and finding out that we are living also in a psychical body and a noetic body, and still, on finer, not bodies now, but conditions in the Infinite Beingness. That’s possible. And advisable.
To find what? That until the present moment, what we call knowledge, knowing, was something creating a triangle. The base of the triangle - this is a Holy symbol, the triangle - is ourselves as material body and present day personality. The one side
10’00”
is tending to know and the other side, making this triangle, is the knowledge. So we know everything outside of ourselves. To complete that triangle. Ourselves, that thing, and the knowledge about that thing. Ourselves, knowing, trying to use the thought and getting to conclusions, not only of knowing things but of conditions. Is that enough? For a human being-ness, yes, that is enough.
How do gain access to this kind of knowledge, leading to the wisdom? By meditation, concentration, observation - nothing must escape our attention - , and contemplation. Yes, these will give you the relative truth, in the worlds of separateness. These will give you any knowledge you want to know any phenomena of life around you. To get wise, wise as a human being. That’s not the end.
You are now in front of the main gate. To open it, and see beyond that gate, because it’s most necessary to reach that point through sober meditation, concentration, and observation. To reach contemplation, or ecstasies. There are states, or levels, of consciousness. And apart from separate things, and conditions all around us, we try to understand “what’s consciousness?”
How many degrees of consciousness we can know? Now this is the most
serious decision and study. You are telling me about - all the time - we’ve got the Hindus and others teaching meditation leads nowhere. Just to know something in time and place space. We cannot stay there, and Joshua the God-man Christ showed us the way. “I tell you, you are gods”. But there is a persuasion now, you can find it in the gospel in the New Testament, “Be ye perfect as perfect is your Heavenly Father”. So this is encouraging. So that the God-man, telling us that it means that it is possible, and permissible.
Maybe, these words, are the most serious concerning us human beings taught by the God-man, because Christ was not a man. He was a God-man. Then what are we? We are man-gods. Which means that we reach the realization of what we are by incarnations. But Joshua was not coming to this level of consciousness by incarnations, it was God who was incarnated, for a certain mission.
This is real Christianity, and you can find that advancing to all the levels of consciousness. Not before. So. What is now, consciousness? What is consciousness, to life? Is the manifestation of the phenomena of life giving us consciousness? Giving the phenomenon of consciousness? Now, here is a more serious thought. If matter can give phenomena of life in material forms, because from nothing, nothing comes, so you have something, you must have something from which that something comes. So what you have in the material body, in a human being,
15’00”
it all falls - falls around us. What you call ‘consciousness’ in various degrees, it means that these kinds of consciousness are coming from a kind of absolute consciousness. And reaching now, to that level of consciousness that you can call ‘self-consciousness’, that means, that the absolute self-consciousness, is. And exists.
So, we are existing as intelligences. Our consciousnesses at various levels, because the absolute self-consciousness, is. Now, how can we find it out? It is not just coming to conclusions without finding proof. By studying things around us, and knowing what we call total wisdom, and almightiness. You must find a way to have the proof. We said that in the invocation, “manifesting yourself in yourself”, as the total wisdom, and the almightiness - almightiness- , nothing can escape the will of the Infinite
Beingness. And you find it out when you study the phenomena of life, in what I say is circle of possibilities, from which no phenomenon of life can escape and jump to another circle of possibilities. And, in that circle of possibilities, you can see the total Almightiness.
So this is a broad field of study, meditating to know the relative truth regarding the material world. The psychical world you will continue your study in the other, beyond place, and in the noetic world. Starting from now, on the material world. So what we find out, what others found out, teachers, leaders, saviors I said, what you will find out. And that’s why it is real, because you don’t find different things, all of them said the same things, they found the same things. Which is, study of what we call as phenomenon of life, consciousness.
Now, studying the phenomena of life all around us. We find that anything living is under certain circumstances. Because its living. The rocks are living. The [sunt?] is living. Everything is living. Nothing is outside of life. But you don’t understand it is living because a different way of life. Everything on the planet, mineral, metal, the earth, if you observe, are under certain influences, and all of them are not under the same influences. Which means they have their own life. Do they have any kind of consciousness? So we must study now, the phenomenon we call consciousness, in the phenomena of life.
Now what we mean by consciousness? Consciousness can start from sensitiveness. Definitely. There are laws that govern this kind of life. Of the earth, of the sun. That of the trees. The trees have a kind of sensitivity. The flowers. Those who are loving the flowers and they have pots and flowers in their garden will see that when the sun rises, many flowers will turn their petals of the flower towards the sun. Why? What makes that flower turn toward the light? Now what’s light?
20’00”
So there are many many things which one will study, carefully. Now, sensitiveness. Those who study the creepers. What makes that plant, crawling upward, creating a kind of hands, catching, to keep the whole body of that creeper going up. You must observe that. Most wisely. I said by studying the phenomena of life, everywhere from every kind, you’ll find the total wisdom. And the Almightiness.
Then proceed. What did these [lethert?] men have found out? That the characteristics of the phenomena of life is limited to the phenomena of life of a kind of sensitiveness, distinctive subconsciousness in the animal life. Subconsciousness in human beings, consciousness again only human beings. They see that they cannot find on the animal life. So we can go further than the animal life, and on the plant life, and then developing what?
To stop to this, what we call, consciousness? We develop a petty, small self-consciousness. What is that again, this self-consciousness? Making us recognize that we are a kind of personality. No animal around us develops a personality. And what we find, just to develop a personality, to express this kind of consciousness, you must have some means to do it, which means that it is not you anyhow. You use it to express yourself. It’s the Mind.
So the Mind is everywhere and everything. A rock, the Sun, everything around is the Mind, solid. Studying it, you have to find in it, the circle of possibility, and harnessed, a relative energy to that. The scientists call that the law of cohesion. They stopped to that point. A [wife?] asked scientists and physicists, “whats the law of cohesion?” What’s that, trying to explain to me what’s that? And I go further and I say that it’s Love and the law of Attraction. And combination. And you don’t understand, “what is Love?”
So, studying around us everything, we reach just the point that nothing, nothing at all existing is of something else than Mind. And that Mind, in the various degrees of expression, reveals the total Wisdom of the Infinite Beingness. And that we see, all around us, in the phenomena of life, just what I call ‘sensitivities’ - we don’t have any other better word - instinctive subconscious, subconsciousness in man, consciousness, developing a petty little personal-self consciousness of a man or a woman. And I said before, we don’t stop to this point.
By training ourselves, we can unfold in ourselves, higher levels of consciousness. What I would call, super consciousness. And then, self-super consciousness. And then, something I am not allowed to say.
25’00”
Unless you reach that stage, and I’m telling you, even inventing words that are not existing in any language, you’ll not understand. Because nobody can understand something that fellow doesn’t know. How about this: [eber?] wants to know something to know it.
Now. If once we know something, we know it. But before knowing it, at least once, no words can convey you these meanings. Which means, in every one of us is the possibility of knowing more and more and more. Now, for what we call ‘conditions’, call them ‘obstructions’ if you like. Unless you see something you will not be able to know it. And we see that causes are difficult to be understood. And to be understood, you must have something limited expressed. If I told you ‘what is whiteness?’ You don’t know.
After seeing a white cloud, a white lump of snow, a white wall, a white sheet of paper, something white and I tell you “you know now what’s whiteness”. Not exactly but I know now what’s a white thing! Before seeing anything white, how you can conceive what is whiteness?
What’s charity? What’s gentleness? So many many cause in the noetic plane, expressing things in the material plane. I give you a more understandable example. If I tell you “what’s salinity?” What is something salt? You never tasted anything salt. And if I see it just putting down on paper age 2 3 4 thousand around that, things show you formulas, and I said, ‘now you understand what it is.”
You look at me and say “No! I don’t understand what you have put on paper.” Yet, these are formulas, investigated, by scientists. You don’t understand what it is. Well, if that [will be newa-ing?] unless you are a scientist, but you can know what it is, in another way.
If I bring you just a little salt in my hand and say ‘look here, put your finger on your tongue, wet it, put it there and put it on your tongue now.’ You said what’s salt and you say nay, now I know!
So you can know nothing unless by experience. If you tried now to understand these things I’m telling you, it will be very difficult for you. Very difficult for [ma-soul?], because they are not gods. In any language. To give anything or any information beyond tangible, and things which are in time and place space, yet, to stay there, is not wise. You should still go
further, go further and find out what?
That until now, we existed, the mode of existence, as a form, as a phenomenon as life, living in a material body and even, by study, you will find that you can use even your psychical body, even your noetic body. By meditation, concentration, all that, you will ascend the ladder of wisdom - let us call it like that -, so, even if you have succeeded, to reach that state of self consciousness, living consciously, consciously, in the psychical world, living consciously, even on the noetic world, with something, of course everyone will like to have someday, yet, until that state, you are human.
You will learn, and know, your existence and not your being-ness. You will know that you
30’00”
are a phenomenon of life, and know your circle of possibilities beyond the material plane, because our center, our circle of possibilities is not only in the material plane, it’s also in the psychical plane and the noetical plane and back again. So the circle is very broad. Of the humanity. Of a human being. A human being, to have the right to call ourselves ‘human beings’, and not ‘human existences’, in reality, we say the truth without realizing it.
Anyhow, we are human beings with, of course, not with capital letters, and we must find out now, after developing all levels of consciousness, our real Be-ingness. ‘B’ with capital letter, a line and i n g with small letters. Then you will realize that you are gods. Eternal, everlasting, unchanging, then you find out that from a phenomenon of life, you are life. This I call ‘self-realization’. A center much mis-understood. Because with the word ‘self’, we know that our present-day personalities experience that little personal existence.
When I say ‘self-realization’, I don’t mean that. When I say ‘Self-realization’, with the word ’SELF’ in capitals, I mean realizing who you are as god. You can never reach to that sell development realization unless you gain, gain, the real Self consciousness. And go further and further and further in bliss and beatitude. And “the kingdoms of God that are within you” said the God-man Jesus Christ. The kingdoms of the
heavens are within you. Who understood what the God-man meant? Now happily you will find everything and all information in the New Testament, but you have to meditate on it, concentrated, and definitely, you can ask the help of the Divine Intelligences.
Where are they? In side your body, even. The Divine Intelligences are the Archangels and all the orders of the Archangels. The Archangels of the Elements. In a human body. Not only that. In any body, of any living animal, all around us. These Archangels are working most wisely in your body, a Michael is creating and keeping your body, creating red, warm blood. The Archangel Michael is giving the heat, the warmth, in the body. Gabriel is offering the liquid element, cooperating. And the Archangel Raphael is giving to it the Etheric Vitality. To move. A drop of blood is the precious work of three Angelic orders. In a human being. Also in an animal. And to have the work of other Archangelic orders.
Now, in meditation, at the beginning, “what is this body of mine?” I’m expressing my petty little self, and call it ‘mine’, as long as you call your body yours, you are right. Others think that they are the material body. Which is wrong. It’s not true. Because if you can say ‘I am the body’, you should know everything concerning the body, and you know nothing. You don’t know anything on the functioning of the material body and the various parts in your material body. Not even
35’00”
those who are call themselves scientists today. Therefore, yet a total wisdom of the Almightiness is in the body of every living -not human being- being. Not science now. Studying this total wisdom of the infinite Intelligence, let us call it intelligence, because the word ‘God’, it does…. many people do not like this word. Doesn’t matter. We give the characteristics and no need to give other kinds of names, disagreeable to some - I won’t call them stupid scientists - with limited understanding.
So, what is now life? You. As what? As a spirit-soul. We are spirit-souls and the characteristic of the spirit-soul is the real self-consciousness. And what you call your personal self-consciousness is the shadow of that light. Shall we call it a dream? Some are calling it a dream. And why they are calling it a dream? Is that a dream?
Now, as a phenomenon of life, we are in what we call time and place space. Creating in space, on the planet, the idea of a place, a room, a house, an environment. That does occupy space, but it is in space. Because there, is a moving-around ether, around the sun, once a year, in the solar system, around the center of the galaxy. So before closing your eyes and opening them - your eyes- in space, you are thousands of kilometers away. You don’t understand it, yet, that’s true.
Place, moving in this way in what we call space, we have made the conception of place. A room, a house, living in it. It is what concerns us as phenomena of life, not space. As place. And even Jesus Christ, said to his disciples, “I go to prepare place for you”. To his disciples, he didn’t mention anything about space, but he mentioned the word ‘place’. So we shall try to understand what is ‘place, space, the heavens, or space’.
So you have to enter in very very deep meditation. So what is now life, in space? Space is life. It’s the Absolute Beingness. Beyond human comprehension. What’s now place? Yet something so that it would be conceived it must give me - and another conception - of time. Now what’s time? Does time exist? Phenometically, yes. In reality, no. Because a place is something in space, time as you understand it as past, present and future, is a part of the eternal now. Eternity. That eternity is, not exists, you are sure about it. Because things
40’00”
exist in it, that relatively true is any sense of place you are living in. Being under, of course, the impression of past, present and future, to be it means that space is. So that something in it will exist. These are [veneziu?] reasonable thoughts. But dogma, so deep yet, you have to cover much space before reaching to this most viable and true conclusions. You must study yourself as a phenomenon of life, and all the phenomenon of life around you, before opening the gate which leads from existence to beingness. From the worlds of change, to the world of immortality, and life without changing. You say but, now we will live on the planet, in a material body, never mind that we have troubles…. [tape side ends]
Now everybody will say, yes, now we live in the material bodies, we live and we feel we possess a kind of self, expressing ourself. And life, as a phenomenon of life, as you say, with all it’s bitterness is still sweet. For
some people. For other people, this dissatisfaction in them, they find the phenomenon of life as very difficult and even they commit suicide. Nothing more devilish and stupid. Because they don’t have the right to destroy something they did not create. It was given them to live in.
So, for most of the people, even life in a human body, or even developing consciousness in the psychical body and the noetic body is, with all it’s bitterness, sweet. Life is sweet. Living. Well. To a certain degree, I’ll agree to that. But I’m putting the question “for how long?”
Life as you live it, may give you satisfaction? For how long? What’s satisfaction? Now the seeker of the truth, man or a woman, to free himself or herself, must start studying their emotions, their desires, their wishes, their expressions, and see the quality of it. Whether they want it or not, they’ll find out. After the study -that certain- such impulses have created in them. Feelings, which are not clean, to them, or to the others, and they are torturing them and the others. As enmity, weaknesses, the feeling of hostility, the feeling in them of being offended.
The seeker after the truth should start studying all this conditions seriously. That means, what are the expressions of himself as a time and place space personality, and the behavior, the expressions, of all others around him. Male or female. Parents, children. Co-workers. And all that. That means they must start studying how is that phenomenon of life, we say that with all its difficulties and bitterness is sweet. And we find out that nothing is constant and stable. Everything changes.
45’00”
Whether we want it or not, everything is changing. Because this is the law existing in the worlds of existence. Continuous change. Birth, a child, interests of the children, growing, living as high interests of the children, becoming adults, grown up boys or girls. Now different interests in life, different obligations, different impulses, they find themselves in different impulses. Sex, to get married, using reason, to create a family. And so changing and changing, old age, and then, this is what really causes fear to all grown ups. I meet that everywhere with friends coming to me.
They come to me and say, “look here, hummmm. know that friend of mine, we are working together, he is two years younger. Yes, we are very
old both of us, he was [sotus pass?]. He died. They don’t say ‘passed over’. Feeling that he’s lost. That he finished. And of course, they say, today, he “I cannot avoid tomorrow, being dead myself.
Believe me, this fear I have found even in most educated people, scientists, not only Cyprus, all over the world. And I put the question, “Besides that, not only education, but even [admin-manahue?] nearly millionaires reaching age of eighty, eighty-two, I said, they feel the burden of time passing. Over them. Weakness. Old age. And they say “What am I”. I’ll finish. I’ll be buried, or cremated. Then of course, they feel a great fear in them. Because they feel that’s the end of their existence.
Then if you put in the question, “what did you succeed to do until now? Piling up property and money, trying to gain the name, the honor of other people? Your time and place wisdom as a scientist?” Believe me, scientists and even doctors of medicine are those that are more afraid of death than others. Because other people, they accept it coming, they are going, avoid thinking about death and all that.
So what is the real gain of a living human being? As a personality. We are put many questions, suppose, we follow the research of the truth. What is our gain? I said everything. Which means, by practicing raising up unfolding your consciousness and self-consciousness, you can live consciously in the other world you’ll go someday. The so-called psychical world. So death for you means passing from one room of your house to the other. Nothing more than that, as simple as that.
So, even you have to undergo what they call the second death, which is not painful. It is rather pleasing, that means changing condition of life. Passing to the noetical world. Maybe coming back again, not maybe, surely coming back again, because the debts we have made here we must to come and paid. And also get our reward, because karma is not only the painful experiences we receive, also, the rewards. Christ said,
50’00”
“Whatever one is sowing, he shall reap.” Many times you find even criminals escaping the human law, dying peacefully in a comfortably bed, very rich, even with a smile of contentment. Because they don’t understand that death is coming to them. Where are the words of Christ,
Christ was telling lies? They will come to pay. But, we should not misunderstand things now. Is the world ‘here’, and ‘beyond’, and ‘still beyond’ governed by a punishable God? You must have this in your mind. And we say, “most merciful Father”. Is God punishing human beings? No. Of course not. God is within everybody. And God is giving the chances to everybody and the authority to use the means to find out the truth which means Mind.
Anybody can use the mind if he wants to use it. But do people use the mind as sober thinking? If we turn our hands, we get a skill. Some skill to do that and that, and become a good sculptor or a good painter, or a good worker. Using our feet we become good football players. Nobody can become unless practicing.
But do we practice our minds to see if practicing the mind is not giving us more power? I’m telling you, people are practicing the whole body, not caring about their mind. Still the mind, is what everybody has free to use. They don’t use it. Now, you can never unfold in yourself any degree of self-consciousness without using properly the mind. And I said, the Mind is everything. But, we find the mind in various degrees of expression. Have the as matter, as emotions, as psychally things, as sober thoughts, sober thinking, and still beyond that. Which means you are not living in a world that is not really giving satisfaction. We can find that satisfaction.
Then you say ‘what about things now in all the nations all over the planet?’ Who is wrong for that? Wars, revolutions, dissatisfaction, enmity, quarrels, crimes, that’s not a fault of God. God gave the Mind, to the human beings, making them self-conscious existences, and beings, if you like, favoring them with something he didn’t favor the animal life around us. So it is our responsibility now. To use the Mind, reason, and love, because everything else is in vain, you must understand that. Piling up property and getting money. Trying to gain honors. Presenting a name. In the false way, or even in the right way. It’s not a gain.
What is a gain, the real gain? Is finding who you really are. You are not becoming anything you are not now. Some are putting the question “how can we gain Divinity?” You can never gain something you are not now.
55’00”
That’s why I say self realization, and knowledging, by knowing properly, who you are. So you are not going to be favored by any Deity, and be given, as human beings, something we have been rewarded with. It’s a false idea. What is the truth is, as the prodigal son return back home. That’s the parable of Christ, of the prodigal son. If you make a step, the Father will make the other 9 to embrace you and bring you back. This what all have known until now. So there is not any punishing God. Definitely. Put another example, not knowing the law of gravity, a fellow is getting a stone and throwing it up, that stone comes on his head, and after a little, you’ll see his head bleeding.
Is that punishment from God? Would God stop the law of gravity, and everything to be destroyed on the planet, for his sake? Because, he decided to throw a stone up, and that stone came on his head. Instead of punishing, what?
So, this material world is governed, most wisely, by certain laws. Those laws are expressing the total wisdom and almightiness of the Absolute Beingness. You shouldn’t violate them. Even coming the stone on his head is a precious lesson to lead him to understand the law of gravity. The same thing applies in the psychical plane and our psychical nature. Are you not violating this most precious laws, in our psychical bodies? By making bad use of the Mind? Creating negative and bad elementals? Is there an excuse? Not knowing the nature of this kind of elementals? Being under their burden and torturing us? We should know about them.
And then, after knowing, know how to use properly the Mind. This is the purpose of the seekers of the truth. To know the truth. So in the same way as violating a law on the material plane, you have the consequences, violating any law on the psychical plane, in you psychical body, you have to face the consequences. Which are what? Pain. Sorrow. Even leading to the mental hospital.
The same we have the laws characterizing the noetical plane. There is no excuse for a human being because - I’ll call him God the Father - call him whatever you like, gave all the instructions and the means to find the truth and bliss, which means the Mind. He did not deprive any human being from using the Mind and training himself to reason. So we must have in our minds, that we are phenomena of life, we have responsibilities towards The Life. Which is everywhere. You are in it. Everywhere around you is
the Infinite Beingness. A most wise, super intelligence beyond our comprehension. I said, “Don’t call It God, It,” because God is not ‘he or she’. If you don’t like this word, which has been in very bad use all through the centuries, avoid it.
60’00”
Use the word we are using as seekers of the truth: Absolute Beingness. In which all beings are, everlastingly, and exist as phenomena in time and place space.
So, this field of study is very broad. What we need is just to reach the decision to know the truth. Which, according to the God-man Joshua the Christ, will save us from the illusions of time and place space phenomena. Now, using the Mind, we can do that. By [dry?} by studying the nature of the Mind and what the Mind, under the bad use we’ve made of it, has rewarded us with. Which means, the lessons, we know that the personality of each one of us, man or a woman, has a present day personality, is the sum total of the elementals which either we have created, or, we have re-energized from the vast ocean of the psychical plane around us, making an elemental of that kind part of our sub-conscious.
So, the brother-guides, will teach you not only these things, but how to distinguish and see with your mind, even by gaining clairvoyance, the form and power of this elemental. What you find out, that the quality of each person, ours, in the family, everyone, is the sum total of his, or her, thoughts and emotions. So the brother-guide, will teach you how, to concentrate and study the nature of those emotions, and the result out of it. How these emotions have influenced you. And again, as your material body is not yourself, so your emotions are not yourself. And your thoughts are not yourself.
Everything is Mind you can use to express yourself as a phenomenon of life on the material plane. Now what is the gain of the seeker of the truth? By training himself, he can become the master of his life on the material plane. And, gain in his present day personality, the ability to live consciously in the psychical plane, while still living in a material body. So, it’s a great gain. And still further, to live consciously and self-consciously in the noetic plane. Which is where? Here! Everywhere. You don’t
need to move in space, but change the meaning of place. Yes, that you’ll do. You must learn the way how to do it. Which means, getting mastery over life. Become master of yourself as a phenomenon of life. Feeling now, not as John or Mary, but feeling you are the soul.
You find that you are the soul. And you didn’t know it all the time. Now, starting to study your [expacious?] as a soul. Now, who is drinking that now? Yourself as the soul, or yourself as the present day personality? You tell me,”is that two different things?” Now, if I get a coin and tell you, “is
65’00”
this coin two coins?” Say “no, that’s one, for hold in your hand, [socho?] It has two sides.” It’s one coin. Then you realize that you are this coin with these two sides. One is the side of the value of the coin, and this is the other side something denoting what it is. So I won’t tell you you’ll find a second person inside you, you’ll find what you are.
Now, is it necessary to hold the coin, show it in both ways? Put it there and that’s you. You realize that that’s you. Is what Christ said “The mortal will become immortal and perishable will become imperishable.” Which means, when you reach that level of your consciousness, of knowing who you are, as god, you can live again any moment you like any moment in time and space you have lived. You have gained the value of yourself, either as the other side of the coin or the present day personality. That’s rather difficult to understand that. Which means, in developing ourselves, we are not losing anything, we are gaining everything.
Something else, you don’t remember past incarnations. According to the mercy of God, to give you new chances to develop, he, the Absolute Beingness, deprives from you the memory of past incarnation that within every one of you, you have the lessons, from past incarnations, talent, previous positions and everything. No need to remember past incarnations. Look within your present day personality and there are the lessons you have learned, and you have to work with.
So, when you reach to higher levels, of self-conscious [same?] consciousness, you start regaining this memory. Not only of past incarnation, but even of all the experiences you had, provided you reach
that stage of self-super consciousness going above the meaning of time. I am telling you, this is not an easy thing, but this is not impossibly, it is possible. So it means you know what’s life now. Beyond the conception of time and space, you enter from past, present and future to the eternal now. You can bring forward, anything you like, in all your experiences, in the worlds of existence. That’s gain.
You say “but is it pleasing to see an incarnation with much pain and faults, and all those things?” As long as you are influenced by those impressions, the most merciful Father will not allow you to remember. But when you reach that stage, you see those things as a third person, see yourself, feeling that was you, yet you are from a higher level, not getting any pain of it. Now this has states of consciousness which is not easy to describe with words, you have to develop them, and know them, yourselves.
Now, tomorrow, there will be a lesson at 10:30 again. We speak more about the Mind, what we do subconsciously with the Mind, that means the Elementals, the nature of the Elementals torturing us, the constitution of our present day personality, and work with it.
Usually when I give lessons, people are coming only for a few days. Even two lessons are enough for you to work in all your life later. By basing yourself on this ideas, meditating, concentrating, observing, and advancing, because in giving certain lessons
70’00”
which give a little information, then people are going, not serving them, it’s of no use.
The intelligences want to give much in a little time, and saying little, meaning much.
So tomorrow, the lesson will be on ‘The Mind’. What’s the Mind, then I tell you, even two lessons I mean a time, in both sides, are enough for everybody to study and use it in the rest of your lives, without being in need of any master, guru, and all these things. Learn not to depend upon anybody. Depend upon your own self. But be sincere with yourself, that really, you need developing. Yeah…
71’19” [end of session]