1991.01.14 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed by thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory forever. Absolute Infinite Beingness, God, life love and mercy, manifesting yourself in your self as the total wisdom, total power and total love, enlighten our minds to know you are the truth, and clean our hearts to better reflect your love to you and to all other human beings. Amen.
Everything which draws our attention, every kind of emotion, desire. Every thought creates an elemental. But now must give a better definition for elementals. What are elementals?
We know that what is always, life, God, the everlasting life, has two aspects. The one is eternal Beingness, Being, Eternally, and in it one can understand the self abundance. God is lacking nothing, has
self-sufficiency, has self-abundance. Yet, in it, the Absolute Beingness expresses the will to manifest itself in itself. Don’t say Himself or Herself, because the Absolute Beingness is not male or female.
It has the will, and the power, the almightiness of expressing itself in itself. That means creating the universes, creating the phenomenon of life. The Absolute Beingness is life. In the Absolute Beingness is the multiplicity of the Absolute Beingness, and so, with that multiplicity, the Absolute Beingness, the Infinite Will, wants to express itself in itself as the phenomenon of life. But to express itself in itself, it creates within itself the conditions by which the help will be expressed as phenomenon of life. And this is what we call the Mind.
So, what is the Mind? Everywhere one can conceive. Space is the Mind. The Mind is not the brains, a handful of earth, as a battery is not electricity. A Mind can regulate electricity, who much electricity a battery can give. What’s the universal electricity?
So, the material brains, can it produce in time and space circumstances, thoughts. Are thoughts the Mind? No. The thoughts are made of Mind, but they are not the Mind.
05’00”
Because a thought has a form, a shape, and the relative energy need according to the shape. And nothing can go beyond the ability of its expressions, the circle of what we call the possibilities. That shows us the Absolute Beingness almightiness.
So, is Mind God? No. Is Mind Divine? No. Holy yes, but not Divine. Because it is expression. Now, since the Mind is necessary, to be the expression of the Infinite Beingness total wisdom, we see in the multiplicity of the Infinite Beingness at total expression also, not a total Beingness only, but as a total expression in various ways now.
This total expression is what we call the Logos. The word ‘Logos’ means manifestation, it’s from the Greek word ‘logos’ which means ‘expression, manifestation’. And so, we have now the dual, the double expression, which is according to the Christian [dofdia?] church, Christo Logos and the Holy Spirit. [Nocel?] they ask the question “What is the relation of this
Logos - expression - and Joshua the Godman Christ?” Was the Logos expressed only through Joshua, Christ? This we must understand it.
But Joshua, the Christ, Jesus, when questioned about the Logos, and himself, said “before mountains and the earth and everything have been shaped, I am”. He didn’t say “I was”, he said, “I am”. Speaking about the eternal Now. Beyond the conception as time, past, present and future. And of course they raised stones to stone him, they said “You are not even thirty years of age, the father just said me, and you say that before the world, the mountains and everything existed you are?”
That means that in Joshua the Christ - I call him the Godman - in that body of Joshua was expressed completely the Infinite Beingness. That’s why we call Joshua the ‘Son of God’. But all of us are sons of God. He said, ‘you are gods and sons of the Almighty’.
So, now we see the two states: beingness and existence. Beingness, God in its self sufficiency and existence the beingness in expression. Expressing itself in itself. How, now? We said “through the Mind”. So everything existing is the Mind. Nothing can exist, have a form, an expression in the worlds of Separateness if it is not through the Mind. So all the universes are made of the Mind. So we have the Mind, I said ‘holy’, not ‘divine’. The Mind is not God. It is the creation, not the creator.
So as the Mind, we have, what we call the “noetic planes”.
10’00”
The world of ideas, causes, laws. We have the mental plane, the world, now of forms, and the Mind there as conception of God. Then we have what we call the psychical plane, the worlds of the emotions. And we have also matter, the material universe. Which is Mind. A rock is Mind solid. A stone is Mind solid. Everything existing is Mind solid, in the material plane. So we find the Mind in different frequencies of vibrations, because one of the natures of the Absolute Beingness is motion. An elemental characteristic of every living form is movement, motion. Can you understand any living form around us in any of the kingdoms, the plant kingdom, the animal kingdom, everywhere unless there is movement, motion in it? Growing. Besides if we didn’t have motion seen in the phenomenon of life, there would not be conception of time.
Because what’s time now? Can you understand what is time, unless you see phenomena? No. So can we come to the conclusion that time is not existing? No, time is existing, but it is not at the Infinite Beingness. In which we call Eternity or Eternal Now. So there would be always a Now, and time for us will not mean ‘past, present and future’.
Of course, one studying things, entering in what we call the ‘cosmic consciousness’, he will find this or that. Time, as we understand it present, past and future does not exist. In the cosmic consciousness. In our consciousness, the human, yes it does, but it is an illusion. It is not a reality.
Now, a mystic, all mystics in all times and all places of the world, from the pre-historic times reach the same conclusions, by using what they could just express as human beings, their human consciousness, they found out that they could unfold this consciousness to higher and higher and higher levels. And all of them reach the same truth regarding the Absolute Beingness, God, life, and the phenomenon of life, in the various worlds of the manifestation, the material world, the psychical worlds, the noetic, the mental, and so on.
So, everything existing is the Mind, in different rates of vibration. Our material bodies Mind, solid Mind. Our emotions are Mind. We have in-between, what we call the etheric double, which is Mind, in different rate of vibrations. We have the etheric of the psychical body, again, Mind in higher rate of vibrations and we have Mind, still higher and higher.
Now, there can never be anything material, an atom, something, a planet, a solar system, a galaxy, unless there is in it what we call the psychical body of that material body. And there is nothing existing as material, psychical
15’00”
unless there is what we call the Mind body. The planet has its psychical plane. It is the world beyond we are going after living in our material body. [zewhat?] the planet has its noetic body. We go there also. It [?] difficult, but how do we go there? Because we are not a material body only, we have a psychical body, we have the noetic body, and we have the
in-between etheric doubles. Of our bodies. So, we can know them, and use them.
So, we come to the conclusion, we, we, our real self, is god in the multiplicity of the Infinite Beingness, what we are eternally. What we are are the [helm?] spirit soul ego. You are in motor, eternal, one ray of ourself manifested itself in the worlds of the element and matters. And so we have in now, a material body, a psychical body, a noetic body, but these bodies are not ourself. It is the means we use to express ourselves, in the self of time and space and the worlds of existence. This is the conclusion all mystics at all times had found out and were teaching.
So what the mystics, call them teachers call them seers - call them whatever you like - had given the world is their own experience. And this is what everyone today and in the future will find out.
So, this must be true. Now what’s the truth now? Our order are the Seekers of the Truth. This is what we just call ourselves. So, the truth is that we, as spirit-soul-egos are eternal. We are in the Absolute Beingness in its multiplicity. And, in the Absolute Beingness, expressions, and nothing outside of it or beyond that or these eternal, call them gods if you like, expressing themselves in themselves and in the Absolute Beingness. Can never escape from the Absolute Beingness.
And we say that to exist, we and the other intelligences are using the Mind. The Mind is invisible, and visible. Can be materialized.
So not go now to the old testament, and God said let us create Man according to our image and likeness and all that. We have said that hundreds of times. And this leader, that Absolute Beingness, in manifestation, we call them the Archangels are ego-spirits manifesting themselves according to their vibrations in different ways. But though, these gods, these spirit
20’00”
souls in the Absolute Beingness are manifesting themselves by the will of God and their own will, which they feel it is the will of God, only the human beings had separated their will from the will of God, temporarily. According to the rate of their vibrations, they express their nature, and this
lead us to study the various orders of the Archangels, of the Archangelic brothers of ours. Brothers? Because our Spirit Souls we are brothers. We are one. And, they are our served ones. How? Obeying the will of the Infinite Beingness. And our will of course, and their will of course. They became the creators. These orders of the Archangels, we call them the Archangels of the Elements. The element of ether - energy - , the Archangels of Fire, the Archangels of the Liquids, the Archangels of the Solids. Everything is governed by what we call the total wisdom of the Infinite Beingness and the Archangelic total wisdom and the almightiness of the Absolute Beingness.
Now, before I said the multiplicity of the Absolute Beingness. You may not just make the mistake to think that one is multiplied to something else and to something bigger, that means something which did not exist, now is existing and so on. In the Archangelic orders, or in our real nature as Spirit Souls. Not that. No Spirit Soul has ever been created, and will never cease to exist. The Soul Spirit always is in the eternal now, in the Absolute Beingness. So our real self was never born, was never created, and will never cease to be, cease to exist, yes. We can escape from the world of existence and go to the world of beingness. Our Being, is God.
So everyone can find all these truths out after unfolding one’s consciousness into higher and higher and higher levels. Which means reaching his real self, going to call the real self - self realization.
So, now we made a distinction, we said that, every manifestation, every kind of manifestation is the product of the Mind.
Now I speak something more about Joshua the Christ, because this idea was totally misunderstood. What is Jesus Christ? We call him “Joshua” the name they were addressing him, the Essenians of his time. We see all human beings at all times at all ages, living and living and expressing a kind of petty little self consciousness.
Now, we’ll make a comparison. Suppose I have the rays of light coming from the sun in a place, and put there a black stone. It may reflect some light on the walls here. Very dim light. Suppose I remove it and I put there a marble, color[ture?] red. Yes I see the reflection on the walls, white walls around me, red. And you have put a brush, the same, or a white, it will give me more light. That is the reflection. Of the light. Now
suppose I put there a mirror, a crystal clear mirror, what it will have now [unint?]. The mirror. Just the form of the mirror. But,
25’00”
in which form I have now the form of the mirror? As perfect light coming from the sun. So if all these objects could express a kind of consciousness, the mirror would come realize to say “I am the sun”. I am the light. And through my material body, the God-man Joshua, I reflect that on the world. You want to know what’s life, look at me. Look at me. It is the same thing. So, the God-man, Joshua the Christ, could, entering through self-realization in his Beingness, though he was even in his material body, the mirror. He could feel being God. He said, “I and the Father, are one”.
Now, this is the great mystery of the official religion which is misunderstood totally. God as the Logos existed before the coming of Christ in a material body, to know him as Joshua. And, St. John the Evangelist states in the first paragraph of his gospel, the truth. He speaks about the Logos. What is the Logos? The manifestation of the Infinite Beingness. But he continued to say that the Logos which has been reflected through that crystal clear mirror, Jesus Christ or the Josh [hal the more?] is the light which lighteth every human being coming into the the world. That means making a man, a human being self conscious. So the Logos is self consciousness. And every being human expresses himself self consciously is expression of the Logos. This is clear.
Now, expressing itself through the Mind. Is the Holy Spirit the Mind? No. The Holy Spirit is the expression, second kind of expressiveness of the Infinite Beingness as the Holy Spirit, but again, the Holy Spirit uses the Mind, as the Logos is using the Mind in self-consciousness, the Holy Spirit, the Infinite Beingness, the same Infinite Beingness expresses itself dynamically now. So what are we human beings, Logoic or Holy Spiritual? We are both. Logoic, developing in the bodies the self, the human self which is expression of the Logos, as a self consciousness. But who builds the bodies, with its own consciousness, which is not, in reality, our consciousness? The Holy Spirit, dynamically.
So a human being is composed in such a way as to be Holy Spiritual and Logoic and yet express its self consciousness as a Spirit Soul. How shall
we know that? By developing our human self-consciousness which is very very small, at the beginning instinctive, later subconscious, then conscious, and then self-conscious, and then self super conscious. Just to reach the self-realization who we really are. Did anyone reach that level? To be sure about it, let us say Joshua have reached that level, described it, and proved it. Anybody else give that before the coming
30’00”
of Christ, or after the coming of Christ. Many, too many, believe me. Why not all of us? Sooner or later, yes, all of us. Because all human beings have within them that Infinite Being in the Infinite Beingness. Slowly slowly slowly, will have fought itself in the bodies, the human bodies to reach its real nature, so every one of us will become god. We are gods, we’ll realize that. Because if we were not gods, how do we control, with the help of the Archangels, our microcosm, our bodies?
Then, who develops now? This little self consciousness? Is the little self consciousness of Mary, of George, god? In nature, yes, in expression, no. In nature, they are gods immortal. That means in them that feeling I-am-I and I receive impressions, and I can use my powers - the holy powers - in expressing myself as Infinite Beingness does it. Which means, using the Mind. As the Infinite Beingness, the Logos, the Holy Spirit are using the Holy Supersubstance of the Mind, transforming into substance. Into psychical substance. Into matter. A human being can do it. What the Father is doing, the son is doing. And Joshua has proved that to us with what we call the miracles.
Now, reading the New Testament, and elaborating on the miracles of Christ, what do we find? That manifesting itself that great Soul Spirit we call Jesus Christ - Joshua, making perfect use of the Mind, had shown the wonders that the Mind, express through it, or him, let us call him, see them from the human side now. He could just transform energy and substance into matter. in one case, with two fishes and five loaves of bread, I think so, he fed 5000 people and then another three. These are not stories, these are realities, which you know the orthodox scholars, the orthodox science can testify it, turning matter into matter and matter into energy, and vice versa. So what he did, turning the psychical and noetic energy, vitality, into matter.
Well, what are the Archangels where are doing from the time of the creation? And are doing now. And will be doing now as creators in the universes. Are they not doing the same thing? Transforming energy into matter and matter into energy all the time all around us. Bringing to existence forms which didn’t exist. And then passing from the form of matter into energy other things all around us.
So, this we are observing it, every day. Now we say, yes, but is it possible what Joshua the Christ did, in the past, people now can do it? I’m telling you now, yes, they can do it. And they were doing it even before the birth of Jesus Christ. They could do it. Now, people can be taught the art of materialization and dematerialization, which is very scientific now.
So,
35’00”
while time progresses, more mysteries of the past will be proved to be realities. And so, the human beings must find their way back to their real nature and state. To find themselves, that they are gods, immortal beings.
Now we come to the lesson. You had to say that before coming to the lesson. What are now elementals? You call them thought-forms, call them, [unint.] you like emotional thought-forms. And all that. Every human being is just projecting such kinds of elementals, I said sub-consciously, by feeling in himself or in herself a desire, without seeing what is created. What is that more than the Archangels are doing, now, self-consciously, because they know what they are doing. Just this proves that we are sons of God. We can repeat what God the Father of the Infinite Beingness - is doing in this [world?] around.
But do people, common people, know what they are doing? No. Yet they are doing it. Is it necessary for one to know what is desire, what is emotion? To feel and desire, having that or that thing? It is instinctive in every human being. What is now we start to study all these expressions and know them. What are instincts? What are emotions? What are thoughts? What is done by thought?
Now, we said at the beginning that everything attracting our attention, even without thinking on it, creates an elemental, creates a form. Every desire,
every emotion, everything creates a form. A clairvoyant can see it. A seer can see all that. But of course people do not see what they are producing, creating or deenergizing every moment. Yet they are living. This is life. This expression of life in the material world, and also in the psychical and the noetical world.
So, can you come to the conclusion that all our life, as a manifestation of life, not of course ourself as life - Spirit Souls - but our manifestation as life, as a human being, male or female, it doesn’t matter, living in the material world, that life is only and only the creation of elementals. Exactly. That’s nothing more than that. It is the creation of elementals. And we said in a lesson that the personality of a man is the sum total of these elementals.
Now, can we study the nature of these elementals? Or can we study the nature of a human personality? Of course this is our duty. How can we find out ourselves, unless we disentangle ourselves from what we consider to be ourselves? Yet, these are not ourselves. So, eh, by which way? By knowing the nature of the elementals, knowing the nature of the mind, knowing what we can do
40’00”
by the Mind, and trying to use the Mind in higher levels, as a mirror to reflect ourselves in it. And find out who we are, our real nature. The common people now living around us, everywhere are living a kind of life very little higher than the animal life around us. Living, by necessity and the desire of prolonging the life as a phenomena of life in the material world, nothing more than that. But that’s not what we should do. How do we do it? To feed the body, just to satisfy certain reactions, emotions and all that, creating, through these things creating a kind of time and place place personality, and think that we are that. And not more than that.
And those people, Christ is calling ‘dead’. “Let the dead bury their own dead.” Yet, they consider themselves as living, and living consciously. Why living consciously? Because they can bargain, express emotions, express desires, and especially kneeling before the Idol of possessiveness. So studying now, with reason, the life of human beings all around us, we come to this conclusion, that what we consider to be ourself, is not in reality ourself. It is a created, in time and place space condition, which we make a mistake to think that it is ourself. And this is what we call ‘egoism’. The
egoist, which is not the ego. The egoism is a creation by the super substance, a substance of the Mind, a sum total of the elementals, which is not immortal. It is a time and place space existence. While our ego is the Spirit Soul self of ours, our real self.
Now, how can we understand now that we are not egoism, and the ego, our real self is something separate from what we express as our egoism. Yes, this is the aim of the seekers of the truth. Through the Mind as meditation, observation, reasoning, and studying the nature of our expressions as desires, wishes, feelings, reaching some times to that stage we call weaknesses, enmity, cruelty. By studying all those cases of subconsciousness, we can understand that definitely, we are not what we think we are - the egoism.
Now, another point. Ourself as egoism is changing all the time. New elementals are composing it. Other elementals are disenergized by themselves by subconsciously losing our interest in them or by purposely neglecting them. So the egoism of a human being, man or a woman, it changing and changing. Call it character if you like. Changing and changing all the time, while your ego, it never change you. As I-am-I able to receive impressions. Now what is the relation now, between my ego, and let us say, my egoism?
45’00”
You withdraw your ego from the egoism, and the egoism has to die. To stop existing. This is our aim, at the end. To realize who we are beyond the expressions of a self as egoism reaching even to the…
[end of tape side]
So, the hard thing to do is to become masters of the Mind, in its various expressions. See it, study it, and use it. Because unless you know something and you can use it, how it will exist for you? How not existing? Maybe they are functioning, in you. If others supervise this work, that they will function, because you have so many organs in your material body with knowing about them if you didn’t study anatomy. You take a man, a gardener, never heard about anything in his body, and try to explain to him what’s the heart, the lungs, the liver, the brains, who’ll look at you just wondering, ‘but we have such things within us?’. You breathe, how you
breathe? His face “I am breathing!” [unint.] You have the lungs, you fill them the air… he doesn’t know anything about it.
And so the life of a man, call him illiterate, is instinctive or subconscious. Even making sex! It’s instinctive, the animals are doing it. In his dinner said, this a joke follow “Englaise!” You get an illiterate man, who has those feelings, sex, these tendencies, he or she they don’t know what it is, yet they do it, they obey it. They call it the ‘law of nature’… call it like that if you like. Yes, but is that living consciously and self-consciously or instinctively obeying laws and forces in nature?
So, man now has to use thought, and observation, in reaching certain knowledge about what is what. A seeker of the truth is a burning question mark. Everything must draw his attention, and the power of observation and tried to reach to a conclusion “what is that?” “why is that?” “what am I?” “what are the others?”
More, apart from the body, what are desires? What are feelings? What are thoughts? What is reasoning? All my life, in the life of all people around me, we express the same things, desires, feelings, thoughts, then we see the result behind all this activities, this expressions, which we see that this is common to everybody.
But, can we know the truth, at least the relative truth as regards phenomena all around us? By using the Mind, in the right way, of course you can, but are we doing it? Some they say ‘but I don’t have time for these things, I have just to do that and that and that, go to my job, find ways, how to steal other people, or legally stealing, just making money, becoming rich and all that
50’00”
I don’t have any time about reasoning. You tell him come here. But what most precious you have is in you, it is the Mind, it is not what you call your possessions around you, because nothing of them is really yours - you think they are yours - nothing outside of us, I don’t mean outside our material body only, but of our Beingness can be ours. And Christ the Joshua said “the Kingdom of the Heavens is in you”, not ‘within you’. In you. ‘Cause in translations, they make this mistake.
So, people do not have time for introspection, looking within, and trying to use the Mind now, in the correct way, say yes, but “I am now hard-thinking man”. In what, in stealing? Becoming richer and trying to make the others see you as a different creature than they themselves, and all that. Just see what is going on around us, day and night. What are really the persons trying to achieve now? Fame? Honor? Respect? Money? Property? What else? Yet their real property, they have it and they neglect it. And their real property is in their Mind. Which is in them, and can us it in the right way.
Tell me now, which is the right way? And why do we use it in the wrong way? What’s that easy? By what do we make self-analysis considering self as our time and place space personality and not the real self. We can find it out. That means studying the nature of our emotions, of our, of our feelings. Our expressions. Our relations with all other people around us. But who cares? You share all these things, who cares about all that? We have to, because this is what makes our life and the life all around us miserable. Full of pain, despair, agony and anguish.
So, each one must start making a self analysis and I repeat, I mean self, the present day personality of a man or a woman. Sit and meditate really. “Who am I.” You’ll hear the voice of the egoism within say “George”. “Mary.” Am I that? You hear, “Of course you are that. What else you are?” Now, day and night, each one is making a kind of dialogue. Without understanding it. Now you have just to supervise, and see this dialogue. Who is doing it? You’ll find a double self, the egoism, and you. Inquiring, just to teach a present day personality the way to think in a reasonable way.
But you have to work hard, analyze every desire. Analyze every kind of feeling, every emotion, and that thing behind, having this feelings, this emotions, this desires, what did I store in my subconsciousness, which is my present day egoism? Pain? Experiences, what kind of experiences?
55’00”
Troubles? So, it needs hard work. We call it meditation, and I call it, the Right meditation, because all kind of meditation given by certain schools are useless. Most of them. So we have to find the right meditation in introspection. In introspection, we analyze one by one, studying certain
events which have passed, the quality of our emotions, and our behavior. This is the way of studying the elementals, the nature of the elementals, and what the elementals are either offering you, or costing you. Pain, agony, satisfaction, dissatisfaction. So one with the sober thinking can find it out, by studying everything, leaving nothing to escape.
One of this introspection, which is the duty of every seeker of the truth, male or female to do, is, before retiring at night, have some time to bring in the mind, an event of the day, as in the house, in the family, in the shop, in the business, in the street, an event. You meet people. They behave that, in that way, in many ways. Maybe you met a man, angry, having misconceptions about your behavior, something like that, even insulting, attacking with words and all that. What you do? What you have done? Now you bring it, in your consciousness again, the event which happened before some hours. It is a precious time now, to find the egoism. You start seeing the whole scene, how it has been developed. Can you see that man, your wife, your children, behaving in that way. What happened? Did you see the thing with the right thinking or have you been influenced by that event?
Most of the time you’ll find that you have been influenced. Why? Why that word to be said. Why be treated in this way. Why this fellow will say that? Why for hurt and now something like that. And then start attacking and being attacked. Shouting, quarrels, which lead to what, sometimes, many times in the house, I have been away, they throw things and they beat each other. You can find it everywhere on the planet. Why? Now a seeker of the truth, who found himself in such a case, in introspection will say, now, “why have I not been the master of the situation, and I have been misled and influenced by the circumstances?” How many really do stand above circumstances. Nearly 95% of the people, men or women, are just mixed up in the circumstances and then act or react most of the time in a stupid way.
Now the seeker of the truth will just study the case. “Well, I heard these words, bitter words for me, and I got angry, why? Why I got angry?” And usually what happens, whatever the others say, just offending words, you catch them. But what you say, you forget. Find yourself, justified that
60’00”
why had I been treated in this way. But the other person feel just the same. So, if you see two people quarreling, and you are saying “what’s the matter with you” they will have reasons to say, maybe you… who is now correct? Who is now right?
So, not only a seeker of the truth but every reasonable person must try to see what are the circumstances and in which way he had behaved. Did he keep calm, quiet, just to see what is happening? Or entered in the circumstances in that full way, and maybe behaved in such a way that later, he felt sorry about it. It’s what happened most of the time. Now what is the real aim? Decide from the beginning to be master of our circumstances at all times. Never lose the control. Keep calm. And try to study the case. You may help, instead of just wounding and being wounded.
A fellow comes to you, maybe a member of the family or a friend, they’re saying that there is some misunderstanding between you, behaving say, in a bad way. Instead of getting angry, even if you have been insulted, keep calm, and ask “what’s the matter with you? What makes you really behave in this way?” Which means he is under the influence of certain elementals. You can be above elementals. And don’t leave elementals in your subconsciousness come forward to disturb you.
So, approach that fellow, said, “please, what really is make you behave in this way?” Let him continue insulting or shouting. Keep calm. Tell, “really, I’m sorry, but please explain to me, and if that’s wrong, what I have done, I will ask you to forgive me.” That’s all. Maybe each time is a misunderstanding. Something like that. Now, in this case, what you are doing, you are given the opportunity to help your fellow man and even avoid most painful results out of this talk. Maybe that fellow is in more need of your help and love than continuing the misunderstanding and creating the devil of hatred and enmity. Because, in him, certain evil elementals, and in you, evil elementals will catch the opportunity to dominate. Then you will catch your egoism. In their mind, that fellow expresses an egoism. Slowly slowly teach him just overcome his egoism.
By what? By love and understanding. Now egoism is not [appear?] things in another way now. Love and understanding. Who am I, who is she or who is it? Now is the time to catch egoism. What makes you think that you are different from that fellow? And why?
So, you have the opportunity of catching your egoism during this moments of introspection. And correcting, which means either create new elementals of reasoning, disenergizing elementals which were before in your subconsciousness, which now we have the opportunity to catch and study and learn what they are and what they can serve. So, our whole life, day and night,
65’00”
is a life full of events which is the outcome of the nature and the quality of our elementals. So our elementals, not visible, yet they are real, and most powerful to crush us or crush other people. So we have in our mind that we must disenergize what you call bad elementals, reenergize or create constructive elementals. An elemental which doesn’t have in it real love is dissolving elementals, I cannot call it destructive.
So our whole life depends on these thought and emotional forms. Because I said the sum total of these elementals is our present day personality. Which is not ourself in reality. And you find it out after studying the behavior of the elemental, and the results which follow.
Now we should think from a different angle now. We classify these elementals in two classes and many other sub-divisions, of course. And we find that one class always under the influence of a time and place space egoism are what you call ‘emotional thought forms’ - elementals - then there is a desire, a feeling, a liking. Now, and you have the other class of the elementals, which you call ‘pure thought forms’. That’s reasoning. Now, the mind is not slave of the emotions and feelings and desires. But it’s the master. We give it the mastery, which we should do. And now we construct creative elementals, angels instead of evil spirits. According to Christ, mute and meaningless. So, you must study these two classes of elementals in us, in our subconsciousness, in our present day existence. Now, we shall see that at least 80% of the elementals composing our present day personality are what we call not constructive, but emotional feeling elementals, which dominates the desire, the feeling of what we want in it. We want as egoist, now, not as the perfect ego. The other side we see that we are the masters of this constructive elementals, which tend to obey us, because they recognized the we are reasoning now.
So we make the mind the master of the emotions, and the feelings and the desires. it’s what a seeker of the truth should always do. Either create constructive elementals, or re-energizing from the psychical atmosphere already existing good elementals, because all around us is not only the evil elementals but the good elementals, [it] depends on the rate of our vibration to contact the evil or alive and good elementals. So it’s our responsibility, so now constructively, becoming masters of our emotions, our desires, by right thinking, make the mind master of the emotions, we are finding our real self. Now, I am reasoning. I am free of fears.
70’00”
Free of the burden of desires and emotions, weaknesses and all that, you feel happy. Because finding yourself even in the lower stages of consciousness it gives you satisfaction at the beginning, and later happiness.
Of course all the time you will find on your way the egoism appearing, claiming, threatening, shouting, all humans say ‘no, you are not me’. You are a creation of time and place space circumstances, because you are made of the Mind, you are living, because the Mind is living, and using the substance, the super-substance, and even matter, everything is living, the matter is living. You created a kind of existence not beingness, which entangle yourself with me, presenting yourself as myself, and feeling that maybe I’m you. Now I find out that I’m not you. You are different existence, not entity, to what I am. This is how you find your way, and this is called “self-realization in the lower planes, in the planes of consciousness”.
So we said that by using the Mind, creating elementals, classifying the elementals in the various divisions and the qualities of the elementals, we recognize the state of the consciousness we are expressing ourselves. I have said we have the instinctive kind of consciousness, which is not consciousness, you can find it in the trees, in the creepers climbing the walls, you can find it in all the vegetable kingdom, and you can find it even in your material body.
Because another branch of study is studying your body. You’ll be helped by the Archangels, the creators in that, when you study this one. Then you find the animal subconsciousness which is instinctive, and
subconsciousness, you find it within that you have within you subconsciousness that is not your own subconsciousness. So by observation, you must study all these things and reach to conclusions. Then again You said “who am I?” and “what am I?” Am I a personality, a person, man or a woman, desiring this and that, feeling in that way or in the other way, behaving in this way or in the other way, am I that?
This is the way of subconscious and the waking consciousness of every human being around us. That’s not enough. You come to what I say “self-consciousness”. When I say self-consciousness now, do I mean my immortal everlasting self, or my present day personality? What you call self-consciousness, I mean the lower expression of the self as a present day personality, but now reasoning, this personality I call the ‘permanent personality’, all through the incarnations. That moment you feel you are a self-conscious being, as a person, now you will find you are present day self-personality, perhaps is not you. You have to unfold this consciousness to what you call superconsciousness.
The super-consciousness now, is make you feel you can be in many places at a time. You can feel things happening in the distance. You are not limited
75’00”
in the five senses now, what you have is not division, but you have what I call clairvoyance, clairaudience. In the beginning we say ‘but what’s that’. You need to study it, you need to project. Now why am I who can project as a self-consciousness, not simply as a consciousness because being in a different place, you feel that I am I, and you can see that you are you as a man or as a woman in the beginning. That’s what I call super-consciousness, which super-consciousness is in many many many stages. Then you will find that you have different abilities in you than what you had before. It’s what I call ‘attunement’.
You attune yourself with a certain person far away and you will feel what he feels, what he thinks. You can know what they are doing. Do these things happen now? I’m telling you yes, they do happen now. There are people on the planet with this self-superconsciousness. And soon at the end, you find this self-superconsciousness in time and place. You have to break down now, a conception of time, you can be in the past. Time is
entering what we call the cosmic consciousness.
You can see anything you like which have happened. Of course we cannot find words to describe this kind of self-superconsciousness. Then there are still more and more and more unfoldment, of whom? [Unint.] Consciousness or yourself? You have to disentangle yourself from the consciousness. From the Mind, to see that you are an eternal entity beyond conceptions. Of course, no words can describe though this kind, maybe I’ll say that in German, first I say ‘self super bervoss sein?’ Then you reach what I call ’self-super bervoss keit. There must be a different number between the sein and keit, but even so, I’m afraid this does not give the perfect meaning, unless you reach the state and know yourself what it is.
So, now, which is the ladder leading us to higher and higher states of consciousness. We study of the nature of our elementals and the skill we must get in reenergizing good elementals and disenergizing bad elementals and the ability of creating new elementals. In a future lesson, I’ll speak more how parents and teachers can guard their beloved ones in their young age by creating for them what we call Guardian Angels. Of course, these Guardian Angels are elementals, angelic, they are not your Guardian Angel which is an ego Archangelic self consciousness. But these are means to guard your beloved ones.
Now something else I’ll say. Every elemental a man is projecting, reenergizing or creating, has the intelligence of it’s creator. The cunningness of its creator. The disposition of its creator. If a one, as an egoist is evil, an elemental projected before mastering the egoism, will be in the nature and the quality of the egoism.
80’00”
So, the elementals can be colored with our total of the other elementals, which is egoism. So our duty is just to check the sum total of the elementals composing your present day personality.
Something else, is our egoism only the sum total bad elementals? Don’t we have good elementals? Prayers, higher feelings? Of course we do. But what happens? You create a second self, a second egoism, purer, more clean, and all the time they are fighting in you. And by fighting, your
present day personality will be at the loss, day and night, good is fighting evil and evil is fighting good. Have this in your mind. And one should avoid this inner clash, fighting with yourself, fighting with yourself, because it leads to the dissolution even of the material body and giving a man many many illnesses, usually cancer. Cancer is not a germ, it is a psychosomatic condition. And most of the time, studying cancer cases, I saw that they are in people who have this inner clash, the fight between themselves of the idea of good and evil dispositions.
So the first duty of every reasonable man, not only the seeker of the truth, is to look within, have introspection, and study the nature and the quality of the present day self, which is the present day egoism. There is no other way to reach the higher degrees of self realization, unless you conquer this egoism. And what we suggest, kill it. You are not in need of it. ‘Cause unless you kill egoism, you cannot see shining the sun of real self dignity, which you really, not only you need, that will give you happiness and satisfaction in life, that will give you the meaning of life.
Tomorrow we shall continue, for those who come, to teach you how to create creative elementals as protecting Angels. But mind, you’ll never succeed to do that before mastering what I call real visualization. And becoming masters of meditation, observation and contemplation. But anyhow, it’s better to know the way, and when you develop these states of your consciousness, be able to protect other people.
Now, before closing, I’m telling you we are filling the world with good elementals. There is a fight between good elementals and bad elementals on the planet. For the time being the bad elementals are dominating. So the world needs prayers, [hoter?] prayers, creating good elementals. What is the aim of a prayer, if not creating a good helping elemental.
Now these moments are difficult, very very difficult. All the intelligences, even the Archangelic intelligences, all the invisible helpers, everyone, is working so that the world will not start in the bay. Cause I’m telling you, I know, they visit this place, they see what’s happening. The result will be terrible. You will see things that you never expected that existed in war. So now, let us pray, all of us, with all our heart that reason may prevail.
85’00”
[long break]
Enough. Today, from three o’clock until midnight, all over the world, those who are helping will continue the prayer the war to stop. You can join any time you like during this time. There will be intense prayer and thought. Three to twelve is not the same all over the planet, so it will continue in other places three to twelve and like that. So you can join any time you like with strong prayer and wish peace to prevail, and this, egoists, a few fools, will stop.
89’03”
[end of lesson]