1992.08.31
Daskalos-Aug-31-1992-A-Know-the-Truth.mp3 transcription by rhr
00’00”
… Our Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us, and lead us while in temptation, and deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and power, and the glory, forever. Amen.
My dear brothers and sisters of our great family. Great indeed. The family of the seekers of the truth worldwide. I’m happy to tell you that we number many many thousands of brothers and sisters in what I call the independent circles for the researchers of the truth.
I welcome you to this little island of Cyprus.
Now, when we say we are brothers and sisters in the circles, the independent circles of the seekers of the truth, what we must aim at? What’s the truth? You have to give a better definition about what we mean by seekers of the truth. And just stick to this great ideal.
Although through the centuries which have passed, great ones all over the world, in all the nations and the civilizations, many great ones have
engaged themselves with this research of the truth. And they all reach the same conclusion, which they have stated of course in their own way, and in their own language.
The God-man, Joshua Immanuel the Christ, the Essene greatest of all, had given the doctrine of Christianity, explaining more on what we call relative truth, concerning the Absolute Infinite Beingness of course, as far as the human intelligence could understand, and giving us a code of life leading to this great truth. He has called himself, ‘the way, the truth, and life’. Just in these three words, we find the whole teaching. Our research is to know what is ‘life’. Life as Absolute Infinite Beingness, everlasting life, the Absolute Infinite selfhood, God.
And of course, to know what we are as human beings, living beings. What is our relation to this Absolute Infinite reality, which is life. Are we immortal gods Spirit-self-Egos in the
05’00”
Absolute Infinite beingness, in what we’ll call the Eternal Life? We must just find it out. Of course these great ones have stated that all of us are gods, offsprings of this Absolute Infinite reality. And I said again, Joshua Immanuel the Christ, feeling being himself an expression, the greatest maybe expression on the planet of the Logos has called himself God, stating that all of us are gods, sons of the Absolute Infinite reality. Yes. But. What are we now, as human beings? As phenomena of life? As phenomena of life are we gods? Yes. But, expressing a time and place space selfhood which is a manifestation and expression of our inner real reality of our inner real nature, which is Divine. If there was not the Absolute Infinite Beingness, life, how would phenomena of life appear here on the planet? From nothing, nothing comes.
So, our duty now as human beings is to try to find out - we ourselves having of course as guides, all the experiences of the great ones of passed centuries - but it’s not enough just to accept what they have stated, these enlightened ones, besides Joshua Immanuel the Christ is not suggesting that. He did not say to believe blindly. He said that one should know himself, the truth, and the truth will set him free from all the illusions. So we have ourselves to seek the truth, and find the truth.
We ourselves. As what? As gods? No. Our inner nature, our real Spirit-Ego-Soul self knows the truth, because it is the truth. But we now, as human beings, man or a woman, living in the worlds of the existence - that means the gross material world, the psychical world and the noetical world, we have to know. Finding ourselves slumbering in a cradle of clay, in a material body, dreaming… you have to wake up to the reality. And understand what is life as a phenomenon of life all around us all around us, billions and billions and billions of phenomenon of life around us, as the animals, the vegetables, the plant kingdom, everywhere.
We must find out ‘what is this reality’ all around us? As phenomena of life and what is the relationship of this phenomenon of life, I repeat, billions and billions and billions of forms and phenomenon of life to this Absolute Infinite Beingness the everlasting life? Now of course this is a branch of study, which by using the MIND, the greatest gift
10’00”
given by God to the human beings, we can find out the truth, the relative truth concerning the phenomena of life all around us. One branch of study but we have more serious things to study. What are we as a phenomenon of life? What are we as a human being, living in a gross material body? Is that the only body you are living it? The gross material body this tangible body of ours? What have the great ones, the enlightened ones, revealed in the past? That we have other bodies, at the same time, living in them and in the material body you are living in. Calling it the emotional body, the psychical body, the noetical body. And St. Paul is mentioning this - the three bodies - in his letters. Now we have to find it out. As seeker of the truth we cannot just get something written in the Holy book, or in any other book and accept it without being sure that it is true.
Again I come to the instructions of the God-man Joshua Immanuel the Christ: “You know the truth and the truth will liberate you will set you free from your illusions.” Only illusions, Fears, and the confusion we are in now in this period of time we are in now, in life. So its not the duty only of the brothers and sisters - the seekers of the truth - of our beloved and great family worldwide, but of every other human being just to find out the truth concerning himself or herself as a human being, and study what is life as a phenomena of life. And what we find out is by various instructions and by personal experiences that we have a double self. Living as human beings
in that center of our beingness, of our real being, the immortal ego-spirit-soul being, extending itself - this is the Will-pleasure of the Infinite Beingness and of the Divine Immortal other beings - extending itself in the worlds of existence, has created a living self-shadow. Our human intelligence and self-hood. As the sun is casting a shadow, so we ourselves, as light, because our spirit-ego self is the light, is casting a shadow in the worlds existence, in the material world, the psychical worlds, and the noetical worlds. And this shadow is living. And this is our personality consciousness and selfhood. It is what we can study for the time being. Study our real self in expression, to enter in the reality, in the great conclusion, who are we after all? Expressing a self in time and space in the material plane as a selfhood.
Of course, the Absolute Infinite Beingness God, the Absolute Infinite Reality, the Absolute Infinite Selfhood has granted us the greatest gift which human beings only are using now, the MIND.
15’00”
And with this MIND, clean it from emotions, and material obstacles, we can see ourselves reflected in it. Yes, I am a shadow, but I am what I am, I am also god, because unless I was, and I am god, how can I express in this material body a selfhood that all other animal life around me cannot express. They can use the MIND, the divine gift of God, instinctively. And some of them, just a little, subconsciously. Never consciously. And never expressing a self consciousness. So we have to study our nature, human nature as a self by using the MIND now in such a way as to understand and reflect ourself in ourself, and knowing the truth. So the one who is need of knowing is our present day personality, not our inner, real self, because God knows everything. Our real nature is not in need of learning anything, being god.
But are we not gods also? Yes, gods in expression. That’s why Joshua Immanuel - the God-man - the Christ came into the world. To show us the way, but to the Reality. To the truth. To free the human beings - the petty selves of the human beings - from the tortures of their illusions in life. That was the aim of Joshua Immanuel the Christ coming to the world. Now, twenty centuries have passed since the coming of the God-man on earth, preaching, expressing his Divine nature, showing the light, hated by the darkness. And crucified. Of course, this crucifixion is puzzling. Many
scholars, even today, and many dignitaries of the churches - catholic, protestant, and orthodox church - considering this event as weakness, human weakness of Joshua Immanuel the Christ. That is nothing worse as a blasphemy, because reading the Bible, entering the great truth in the Bible of the life of the God-man, they should notice that in many occasions, he has predicted his crucifixion, which any human being could avoid - by running away.
Which he has not done. Besides, what was the crucifixion? Was the proof of the God-man saying that the flesh is nearly nothing, it is the Spirit-Soul which is giving life, stating the greatest truth. And proving it. He said “I can destroy the temple” - meaning his material body - “ and in three days I will resurrect it. He said that clearly.
So. He said “It is for this moment I came to the world.” To be crucified, to prove that the flesh is nothing, the personality of a human being is nothing, he said ‘the one who holds onto his soul as personality definitely one day will lose it’. It is what we call the death of the material body. And he who hates it - does not give so much attention to the personality - will gain it.
20’00”
Will have it. Because he will have the experiences and the conviction that he is not the personality but that he is the I-ness, Spirit-Soul-Ego. He spoke clearly about the Spirit-Soul. I suggest something I made hundreds of times now, that at least for a weaker of the truth, brother or sister, the New Testament must be their greatest friend and instructor. There you can find the whole truth concerning life, our aims in life, and the code of good behavior we should express given by the God-man Joshua Immanuel the Christ. So. This is the second and most important branch of our study. Using the MIND, reason, we ourselves personally, by personal experiences which will definitely come, to know the truth about life, our personality, our relation to the other phenomenon of life, and our relationship with the Absolute Infinite Reality, with God.
I said 20 centuries have passed since the passing over - and everywhere - of the God-man Joshua Immanuel the Christ that’s because he’s here now! “Where two or three in my name I am amongst them.” Because Immanuel Joshua the Christ is not an historical person who came, just like other great and beloved ones and passed over, he is the fullest and most complete
expression of the Logos Self-hood. He was, he is, and he will always be the Life, the light of all men, according to St. John the Evangelist.
So for us, Joshua Immanuel the Christ will not be an historical person, but the beloved one now. With us and in us, if we are going to call ourselves logical beings, because he’s the Logos. And he has proved it - in his teaching he said that ‘I am you. I am in you. You are in me.’ You can find all these truth in the gospel.
Reading one of his instructions to the disciples, given, calling himself the ‘the king’ the king of heavens. He didn’t say the earth. The king of heavens. He said ‘the king of the end of time. Time of the life of human being.’ Had gathered in his Logoic self, the personalities of people, saying to those considering themselves righteous, come you blessed ones, because when I was hungry, you gave me to eat. When I was feeling thirsty, you gave me to drink. When I was naked you gave me something to put on me. When I was in the prison - that means in the material body - you have visited me. Come you blessed you are to the Kingdom of the Heavens, prepared by my Father for you in all eternity. And they replied to him, sir, our Lord.
25’00”
‘When did we see you hungry and we gave you to eat, or thirsty and we gave you to drink, or naked and we gave you something to put on, or in prison…’ He said ‘In as much as have done to one of these least brethren of mine, you have done it to me. Because I am in them and they are in me. I am the Logoic selfhood and each one of you, and these, these least brethren of mine are myself, as the Logoic selfhood. That’s clear, and then he said to the other ones, you, cursed ones - he didn’t curse them they were cursed by their own beliefs and behavior - just putting themselves in the world of separateness apart from all the other human beings. He taught them “come, you, cursed one”. When I was naked, I… who I?… any other human being near them… when I was hungry, you didn’t give me anything to eat, when I was thirsty, you didn’t give me to drink, when I was naked, you didn’t give me anything to put on, and so on… they said, “Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty or naked?” He said, “In what why have not done, for these, my least brethren, you have not done to me either.”
Because he is in us, as god. Logos. And with us as Joshua Immanuel the Christ. And he has proved it. He has proved that he is in us. Was in us, even in our Spirit-Ego self before being born as human beings and will always be in us.
And he is with us now, as human beings. So we have double self. One, with double expression. The human self, and the Divine real self. Now what is the difference between are there two selves, or one, in double expression. Definitely, there are not two selves, and many make the mistake to say the inner self, the higher self, the over-self. I don’t agree with that, it’s only one self, in double expression. The human and the Divine infinite reality expressing itself. There is difference between the expressing one and the expression.
Now I’ll put it more clear. As human beings we are either male or female. Now in the world of existence, in the material world, also the psychical world and in the noetical worlds, we are expressing a self personality, which is this self - we make the mistake that we are a form, the human form, of a man or a woman, we are born as human beings. Start growing and growing and growing and just shaping a kind of personality of a self around a material body, a name given, because a name should be given to any form to exist, and growing up as a person expressing the qualities of our other bodies, the psychical body as emotions, the noetical body as thoughts, slaves of the emotions, making very bad use of the MIND.
So, this is the self, I am George, I am Alex, I am Mary,
30’00”
I am Hellet, the I-am is common. What is different as sex or personality is the name. The I-am is common to all. This is our existence as a personality. And we are in the world of change, which is the law of the worlds of existence. Continuous change as a form in our material body, growing, growing, as emotions, changing having more experiences - even the personality is growing, not only the material body, and so on.
And so we have defined the so-called self of the present day personality. For long this personality of yours, man or woman, will exist? A few years, then the material body we say, will die, and you will pass over, even as a personality again. Now, but what’s behind the heart of this personality?
Because unless there is the heart, there cannot be the life. And the present day personality, unless it has in it the real self-hood, cannot live.
You take away your Spirit Oh Lord, and everything is abolished. This is in the songs of the Old Testament - a great truth. So, now studying again this kind of time and place space selfhood, what we know by using the MIND, our emotions and the known to us way of living, is what we call the present moment. But what this present moment sees two minutes later, what is present moment will be passed, and we’ll have what we call the future. So you are under the illusions of time. Seeing time, the everlasting present, the everlasting now, as past, present and future. Because this material world, and the psychical and the noetical world are giving illusions, so time is an illusion. And so if our present self - I would rather call it - a real dream. But it’s a dream, though for us, its what we consider the reality. Just think of it. Was the real, pleasing, the reality yesterday, our life. What is it to us now, in bringing it back to our consciousness as a memory? And what is different that, from shaping these past experiences - and pleasures - in so called future experiences, all it day dreaming. What is the difference?
But of course you’ll find the reality behind that after entering what I call real introspection. Looking within. Finding the reality in you. Entering, according to Joshua Immanuel the Christ, in the Kingdoms of the Heavens which is in you. Then you find that what is reality for you now is a continuous dream. Dreaming. Dreaming of I am George. I am Alex, I am Helen, I am Mary. I am adding a name. Male or female. But what is common to us, the immortal part of ourselves, I-am-I. That I-ness, you have to find out in you. To find out as a present day personality, a person now, your real inner nature.
35’00”
Then when you reach there, somebody will ask you, “who are you?” Never mind if you are in a male or female body. Of course we are not defined this time by I am Alexis or I am Helen, you’ll see and say “I am I”. But this I now is your Spirit-Ego-Soul self, immense as the Heavens in you. Then you find your real nature.
This was the mission of Joshua Immanuel the Christ, the God-man. To lead us back to our real nature. To the real life. Yes, we are living now,
but our life now is a continuous dream. Dream? Nightmare? Most of the times, yes. Even now, 20 centuries after the passing over of the human - wholly human - nature of Joshua Immanuel the Christ, yet his everlasting presence in us, with us, we are in a world of confusion, a world of suffering, of pain, of struggle, of fighting, of killing.
Why? Why? This is the third branch of our study. We mentioned the first, interesting branch of study, using the MIND, meditating, finding that out, the origin and the nature of phenomenon of life around us. Now, the second branch of study is to study the reality, concerning us as human beings now. As Divine immortal Spirit-Ego Souls, no need to engage ourselves for the time being with that. By the introspection, we’ll find out. So, we mention also the second branch of our study as seekers of the truth.
Which is the third one now, as important as the previous one? Study the nation - seriously - of our present day personality as human beings. Seriously and sincerely. To study the causes of all this confusion and misery now in our life in this material world. Is this an easy task to engage ourselves with? No, it is not an easy thing, because all the time we’ll find, in our way, what we have created as our present day self, an egoism a personal egoism, a devil in our personality, which is the only cause of all this confusion in this material world and in the psychical worlds and in the lower noetical worlds.
Also, so we’ll face now and enemy. An enemy or part of yourself… Part of yourself? Not your real self. Now you have, I said before, seriously and sincerely, to find out the difference, by introspection, meditation and hard thinking, to find the difference between you, your real ego self, and your egoism, your present day personality’s expression. What you find out? That this present day personality
40’00”
the egoism, is the sum total of the elementals you as the present day egoism have worked on and created. And then you’ll find out that that egoism is not you. Just to come to this conclusion, you have to study the nature of psychical body or your subconsciousness. To study the nature of the elementals you have been creating or revitalizing existing already in the psychical atmosphere, composing them and making them part of that
part of self of yours you call it your egoism, and making the mistake that it is your ego. There’s no connection between the ego - the immortal soul self of yours - with the present day egoism of your personality.
How can we separate that? Yes, when we start the introspection, you’ll find out - learning the nature of wishes, desires, and intentions. You think they are yours. No, they are expressions of the present personality’s egoism. You have to study the nature of emotions. You think they are yours. No, they are not yours. Because you find out that all these many times unbridled desires and emotions were the work of your personality’s egoism, leading to pain, confusion, suffering to you and all those around you.
This is unfortunately the present situation in the world, in the families, in the communities, in the nations. In the nations, is ruling a demon of evil called human egoism. Maybe the worst devil.
So we have just to study the nature of this state of things and disentangle ourselves from it. Now in us, everyday, there is a dialog that by attention and introspection, you can find it out. You think you are talking to yourself. Yes, of course you are talking to yourself, but who is talking to whom, stating what is good and what’s evil?
Now, starting to meditate and studying the present circumstances in life… who is doing it? You of course are the personality. But you can free this personality and find out that behind that is your real personality, which is not the egoism. But which is the expression of your real Ego. So the object is not to annihilate and destroy what we call the personality, your personality, but studying it, hating your behavior… killing… so we say… annihilating the egoism, you find out who you are. You save your real soul. This is what Joshua Immanuel the Christ stated, because they made a confusion at that time, considering the present day personality as the so-called sinful soul which has to be annihilated. Now we separate the personality from the soul - and Joshua says ‘the one who hates
45’00”
his soul, his behavior, the way he is behaving, what is evil….
Will gain his soul, his real self-hood. And the one who loves the present
day personality - of evil and egoism - is losing its real self for the time being. That’s the great truth.