00’00”
Now what is the subconsciousness? Is the subconsciousness our own self? And yes and no. The subconsciousness is just the place where is stored all our experiences as a personality. It’s not ourself, but we can use it. We can see it. We can enter in it. Examine what is going on in it. And cause changes. The first, as I said in many lessons, thing a fellow should just develop in himself or express fully is what we call observation, which is our Divine nature, this observation. So when studying studying all these things, we should be careful that nothing, nothing should escape our attention. This way we express really our self-consciousness. So in the way, observing things we know what is in these things. Who knows? Who we? So are not the MIND we are using to know things, but we are different from the means we are using to know.
Then we enter in another place. Are we the consciousness? We can study by observation and meditation and introspection all the expressions of our personality, as sensitivity, subconsciousness, instinctive kind of consciousness, waking consciousness, consciousness, and self-consciousness. From this moment we are certain that we are not the consciousness. The consciousness is simply the way we express ourselves. It is not ourself, before expressing the self-consciousness. Even self-consciousness now, calling that kind of time and place space self which is the self of the personality.
We make a mistake to think that that kind of self-consciousness is our really real nature and our real self. Yet observing, by raising, the kind of so-called self-consciousness, we see we can express ourselves as self
superconsciousness. Therefore we are not even the self-consciousness, because we see that we are living behind that personality of ours, which is a creation of circumstances - time, place, and way of thinking and way of living. Yet what we find then? I… I am not that expression of myself, having a name, a form, a body, yet I have the form, not the form of the material body. Who am I then?
Changing, or raising our consciousness to higher levels, we change the view and just the point from where we see things. And we see that we receive things from outside, not from our real self, in ourselves, trying to understand things and interpreting. Even in the so-called self super-consciousness we are not in our selves yet. But gradually, starting the introspection and looking within, and now understanding the instructions of the God-man - who was perfect God and perfect Man - talking to us about the kingdom of the heavens which is in us, in our being-self,
05’00”
we can see that we express now a kind of different self-superconsciousness. Which are the qualities of this kind of self-superconsciousness? Getting the power of atonement and attunement. Sticking with something and getting whatever that something is offering us, offering to us consciousness. Many times we have spoken about this, attunement, but who had entered into the meaning of attunement? By having this and getting the skill of attunement, in one single moment, you can know many many things that through other means of observation, you cannot have in studies in years and years. In front of it.
What is this ability in just receiving things, and knowledge of things in an instant, which you would need hours and years to take? You are expressing our Divine nature as gods. We can develop in us to some extent what are called ‘omnipresence’. What were the instructions, of Joshua Immanuel the God-man, to us? First of all he said that we are gods and sons of the Almighty, offsprings of the Almighty - he didn’t use the word ‘son’ - he said the offsprings of the Almighty. And what else? Knowing who we are, that means extending our selfhood beyond time and a certain place, and the limitations of what our way of living is giving us now.
I tell you that this is splendid. Just starting feeling that you are not mortal animals, you start knowing what’s life? What’s the value of life? What you are as gods, what is God Divine? And what understand things that we think very very important in life - activities, way of acting and doing this and that - is not so important as we think it is.
There are still much more important things than motives, intentions, and the way we are living. Yet is doesn’t mean that we don’t have to do what we call destiny, call it karma if you like, the Hindu expression, is placed as noun here, to learn the next lesson.
And you cannot learn the next lesson as human beings, to realize that we are a Soul being unless we are faithful and exact to what we have to do today, now. So, you are not going to abandon our daily duties, because that’s the way we will develop our so-called consciousness to self-consciousness. Some would say yes, now I see the truth, yes I see something more of the truth - again the relative truth - and all these things are not important. No that’s a mistake! We are here because the Divine Intelligence placed us here to get our next lesson. We cannot turn our back to what we have to do today. Today we have to do certain things. The only thing we can have is just to ask the Absolute Infinite Intelligence, ‘Guide Us!’ According to your will. Your will be done.
And then, will just to start
10’00”
to study what do we want to do? What do we have in our mind to do? And what we are allowed to do? Not what we want to do will be done but His will be done. Because as Joshua Immanuel the Christ said, “not even a leaf is falling from a tree unless that’s the will of God”.
And when Pontius Pilot said to Christ, “Don’t you know that I have the power and authority to set you free or send you to death?” He said, “you have nothing on me unless it is given to you from above”. So everything which takes place, in all the worlds of existence is in the Divine Plan. And we, gods and human, are entrusted by the Absolute Infinite Intelligence certain things to make use of them. Use of them in what way? To feel ourselves happy and make others happy. That’s life.
This is what we should have in our mind. Not to be egoist to think “this is what I want to be done”. If we see that it is not possible to be done, it means that it’s not the will of God to be done. It doesn’t mean that we should not ask God. We are Divine. But its God to decide. “thy will be done”. That’s definite.
Yet, what did Joshua Immanuel the Christ say for that to his disciples? Seek of the Kingdom of the Heavens and everything will be given to you. Asking and seeking for material things, they may be given to you, because he said “who is the Father, when his child called him ‘give me a piece of bread will give him a stone’, or I would like to have a fish will give him a snake. You, human beings most cunning can give good things to your children, what about your Heavenly Father? What he will give to you.
So everything is in the gospel. So we can ask, and Joshua Immanuel the Christ said, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find, knock and it will be opened to you, even the Kingdom of the Heavens. But, thy will be done. If we ask for something, that will be given to us. Definitely. But not in the time we want. In the time the Heavenly Father feels that we should not have it now. But when he grows to become a man, he needs to say if he wants. Now you know, now its the time to have it. Not the time you want to have it.
So we should not be naughty children. Ask, of course. But you are not to decide when. Its He, the Heavenly Father. So, nothing we can do never mind how rightly we may think and like it, unless it is the will of the Infinite Intelligence. This is what everybody should have in mind. But that doesn’t mean we should seek perfection in the instruction of Joshua Immanuel the Christ said it clearly: Be ye perfect, as perfect is your Heavenly Father. That’s an instruction and an encouragement. We can be.
So we have now to see what is our nature. What is the nature of human beings all around us? What can be our relations to the other human beings? The center of everything is not ourself. Everyone is thinking that the center of creation of everything is his most unimportant personality. This is what we call
15’00”
the egoism of the personality. Which will disappoint everybody, So we must consider ourselves not unimportant, but important to the extent of finding the same importance in everyone else.
A new instruction I give you - not commandment - that you love one another as I love you. Not less. So if you bring other human beings to your level in value, whom? Every other human being as a god then you’ll understand the value of life, and you’ll regulate your activity towards the others. What about the self of the present day personality? Pleasure as a reward. Forget that. This might be the last blows that you have to give to the personality’s egoism. One should forget himself as a person so he will find out who he is as a Soul-Ego Being. The one who loves his soul - mean the personality - will definitely lose it, said Joshua Immanuel the Christ, and the one who hates it, hates just the way of life one is living, will save his soul-self by knowing that ‘I am not all that’. I am not that way of life, myself. But I am life itself, and not the expressions in life.
Now these things, everybody should consider in introspection, looking within, and asking the help of his Guardian Angel. The Guardian Angel of each one of us is near us is ready to interfere if we ask help. To think, day and night you are talking to your Guardian Angel without understanding it thinking that you make a kind of monologue with yourself. That’s not. Because in the time you are doing something and it’s wrong… no, no, no, I think it’s wrong. It is the interference of your Guardian Angel within you saying that. Many many times each one of us have heard these interference of our, let us call him Divine Brother. In us and with us. I will say that sometimes this Guardian Angel is giving us very bad blows, which are called ‘stings of conscience’. If one is overdoing it in his relations toward other human beings, in hating, envying, or doing something wrong, then that fellow gets some very hard blows from his Guardian Angel. I repeat it… I call them ‘stings of conscience’, and to these things when you feel them, give attention.
That’s the time you’ll find out that you are never alone. Whatever a fellow is doing, thinking is known to his Guardian Angel and to God. To God in himself, because our real self, the Spirit-Ego Being is god in one, in God and one with God. Two different meanings. So tomorrow the lesson will be more on the use of the MIND, of course on Elementals but from a different point of view. Studying the subconsciousness and our emotions,
how these emotions are created, and how we as a person and as a Soul see them and regard them.
Now we’ll make an exercise.
20’00”
Relax completely.
Your body should be completely relaxed from toes to the head, feel that you’re relaxed, and feel that you as life and even as a present day personality, you are in your body. Life is motion. You can be in the head, on the tip of your nose if you like to concentrate, on any of the two ears, in the eyes, on the shoulders, breathing in the lungs.
You can move about in your material body by concentrating on these points, you on the hands, fingers, your belly, on your knees, on your thighs, in your feet, everywhere. Such the place you can move about for the time being, you, as a personality self-Ego. Yet expressing the egoism, you are a feeling entity. You are feeling. You are using now subconsciously the feeling-giving ether or the aesthetic ether using the greek word. You feel, you are living. You feel any member of your body by concentrating on it, yet you are you who are feeling it.
Just see these things on these two points. Feeling the organ. You are concentrated on, and feeling yourself feeling it. So feeling the organ you are changing the point of attention, but you are never changing the point of your personality beingness. So you have a steady point… you.
You have another point of concentrating your attention, which is any point and you are concentrating on. I will not elaborate more on it on external things but in your body now. You are concentrated now on the tip of your nose, feel it. Feel the tip of your nose and if you cannot feel it touch it with your finger to feel it. Feel the tip of your nose concentrate only there. Feel your lungs in your chest breathe, it’s easily now to feel it. Breathe deeply and feel the air filling your lungs. You have moved in another point in another point from which you get impressions - your lungs - which is not now the tip of your nose. Feel your two eyes, if you cannot feel them, I think you can easily feel them because there is much etheric vitality in it. Touch them with your finger, but you can feel them. Feel the eyes, the
eyeballs in there. Feel them.
You are you always the same, yet the point you are concentrating on is different, it is your eyeballs now. Now breathe and be in your lungs again. That’s you, the same you, yet you are changing the focus of concentration now feel you are in your belly.
It’s not difficult just to feel you are there, move it, you can move your belly. Feel there. You are always you. The one who concentrates, yet you are changing the point of concentration.
25’00”
Feel your knees now. If you cannot feel them, just touch them with your hands, feel your knees. You are you all the time, yet you are changing the point where you are concentrating. Feel the toes now. Move them if you like, in your shoes. You are in your body. Now breathe deeply and with comfort. Be in your lungs.
You are not breathing only the air, and oxygen, you are breathing also the etheric vitality. It’s not necessary only with breathing to fill yourself with that etheric vitality, but it’s a means of just filling your body and your etheric double with the etheric vitality by breathing. Breathe and now visualizing seeing through your imprinting ether, every breath to fill the whole body with this etheric vitality. The air cannot go everywhere outside of your lungs, yet this etheric vitality can go everywhere not only in your body but now we want it in your body.
Now filling the whole body, and breathing, see with your imprinting ether with your mind with your thought, that a white light is in the air you are breathing, filling the whole body with a white mist of light.
Doing so, you will feel a vibration in your body. Try to feel that vibration all through your body in all your body. This vibration is the etheric vitality vibrating. You can feel your material body through your etheric double with this etheric vitality.
Enough.
In this way, you get the skill as your personality to concentrate and feel
itself - never mind it is not the real self it is the personality self, but you start from that - making you understand who you are, at the beginning as a personality. A name, male or female or like that, but that’s the way you just have to exhaust our work until you reach your real self to reach what I call self-realization.
But even your present personality man or woman has in it the Divine nature of your Spirit-Soul being and express itself, better and better and give this skill to your present day personality self. This is the way to develop your present day personality. Of course, by knowing the one, that self, of yours - never mind is that your personality self or the Soul - it’s nature, and getting the skill on concentrating on anything in the body at first, then you’ll be able to concentrate on anything you like outside your body.
I mean that expansion of what I call your consciousness. That’s not exosomatosis though, it is expansion, but it needs years and years of practice and introspection to realize who you are as a personality as a person living in the gross material world.
30’00”
Of course we have to learn the elementary school lessons before going to higher and higher schools. You cannot jump to a higher school unless you finish the elementary school and the elementary school is just this kind of exercise you have to do in our material bodies. Later we’ll have these exercises in and on our personality. Then we’ll reach to what we call Wisdom. And believe me, when you reach that stage of expressing your soul, expressions, as attunement and later as atonement, as intuition, then you find yourself very proud and know you are not just like the animals in the Animal kingdom. It is finding your way back home to your own nature. Now.
(end of recording).