1992.06.02 Daskalos Stoa Lesson plus Meditation Transcript. transcription by rhr
00’00”
…. as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us, and lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory forever. Absolute Infinite Beingness, God, everlasting life, love and mercy, manifesting yourself in your self as your total wisdom and your almightiness, enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth, and clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings.
The lesson today for those who want to get out of the confusion, and know the truth, should be most precious. The lesson today is based on my own experiences. And of course, these experiences coincide with the teachings of great, great ones who had lived in past centuries. The teachings of Buddha. Confucius. Of all, all mystics in Egypt. And other countries. And it’s confirmed by the God-man, Joshua Immanuel the Christ, our Lord. All these teaching is included in the New Testament. Teaching. It means nothing unless this teaching should become your way of life. It’s not enough just reading it. Even acknowledging that this is the truth, and nothing more than that.
Now what are we saying, I say again this is my own experiences, and it will
be your own experiences, sooner or later, because there is no other way coming back to our real self, finding our real self.
So, the way is using the Mind in the proper way, and investigating the truth. Of course, there are many many other pathways which other great ones have shown, but all those pathways are leading always to the same goal, which is, to find out what we are and who we are, what is the life, and especially it will be answered the question that until this moment that really makes people wonder What’s God Who is God
Everybody, I said, sooner or later, will have these experiences, because it is the attraction that our real self has to undergo by our divine absolute nature. We are living now as human beings. For how long Just as human beings for a good number of centuries. Yes but, how long We have to find our way back to our real, divine nature, which is our real self. Is it easy to do it
Of course, in the way we have in tandem our little petty
05’00”
time and place little self which is not really ourself, with all those interests building a present day personality with its egoism. It isn’t so easy. You have to take off, all those clothes, which are covering us, and find now the Mind - pure Mind as super substance - as the perfect mirror in which we will see ourselves.
Now, basically we know that what is, always was and always will be, is the absolute, infinite, let us call it reality. Beingness. God. Unmanifested, incomprehensible, but - it is the reality. So this Absolute Infinite selfhood, and Beingness, is and exists, because we have just to study the two natures of this Absolute Infinite Beingness - it’s divine and unmanifested self, in it’s self sufficiency, and also must study now, it’s nature in its multiplicity, expressing what we say the will pleasure of manifesting itself in itself. By the being, billions and billions beings immortal, gods, there is only one God, God the Father. But there are similar beings in it which are the Holy Archangels, our brethren.
So, in the Absolute Infinite Selfhood, these beings are exactly, by what we call at-one-ment, the same as the Absolute Infinite Beingness. So we
cannot distinguish them. They are one. But this is rather difficult to understand it as long as you are under the pressure of the worlds of separateness. But you may understand what it is, if you reach that state of at-one-ment or oneness with the Absolute Reality and the Absolute this present of us is called the Archangels of the Elements.
Now so, as human beings we can know nearly nothing about the incomprehensible state of the Absolute Infinite Beingness, even about our Divine state as spirit beings. But we can know much using the Mind - the super substance of the Mind - knowing what is this Mind in all its frequencies, and by that, seeing how the Holy Archangels are using this Mind in creating the universes. All the universes.
How many Human beings cannot know much, but we can address at least 7 heavens, we can address 7 universes, and we can find ourself in these universes, and now realize what we are. I’m telling you, you are not just a mass of matter living in the human form only - a living being a phenomena of life, like all the other animals all around you. We are gods. Sons of the Almighty. These are the saying of Joshua Immanuel the Christ. These are the words of all those great ones who had lived in past centuries. But its not just
10’00”
only to know that, by hearing what we are told or what we have written. Just read in books. You must find it! And Joshua Immanuel the Christ said it clearly “Know the Truth, and the Truth shall set you Free.”
Free from what From the illusions. And from that personality of ours which we think it is ourself. Giving us so much pain. Agony and a kind of unsatisfactory way of living. That was the aim, why The Logos was humanized in Joshua Immanuel the Christ, and came down. Just to draw us back.
So I heard, what I would tell you is out of my own experiences which would be your experiences sooner or later. There is no other way. You have no immortal personalities. Yet you are immortal soul spirits!
So you must reach that self realization. You may read many, many books on mysticism. In the east, many others. Yes there (a) show a
pathway… but are those pathways - of course all pathways are leading to the same goal sooner or later - but are those pathways safe
Are they the short one So we have two ways - and you have to choose - the one way is reasoning and using the Mind properly in studying, understanding, understanding and knowing by using the bodies, understanding what we are and what we are not.
This is the one way, which is aim of esoteric teachings. And which is the other way That 80% of the people are going through The way of destiny, of cause and effect, the Hindus call it “Karma”. The whip of destiny. Everybody will come back home. The prodigal son can not remain in the [brothel]. Sooner or later he will return back home, to his own Divine nature.
So, I said that this is the way 80% of the people now on the planet are following. They are feeling that whip of destiny, which Christ says “whatever one sows, so shall he reap”. And we can study this law.
Of cause and effect. The laws of relativity. We can follow now, if you like, the orthodox science, because a true mystic who is living the path of mysticism is not rejecting the orthodox science. As it is today, that it is tomorrow, because the orthodox science is just proving what he believed all the time, he knew, just presented it in another way.
So, many are asking me, “you keep the keys, and you don’t give us the keys”. Which keys I’m giving you at every moment the keys. The keys is just knowing, understanding what is the super substance of the Mind. Start using it in the proper way, living the proper life, and studying, using now logic and all the other ways which I have given, I am giving you them. Of just understanding what is consciousness at the beginning, just to study all the levels of consciousness, to find in that yourself, your self consciousness. There is not any mystery in it.
What it is, it is from the part of the other’s hearing, just, to get the trouble and work on it. Just a brother guide, and instructor. He may hold the torch lighting our way, as all those have done before him, and Christ
15’00”
saying “I am the Light of the World”. He can take you from the hand, and guide you. But don’t expect to take on his shoulder and cover for you the way back. You have to train your two feet and go on. What are these two feet that we have to use Becoming masters of emotion, and of thought.
You have to make the balance. That means use both, as a master now, of your psychical body, and your noetical body. Understand what they are, and what you are for them and IN these bodies.
So, unless you know the existence of something and being able to use that something, you cannot be sure that these things do exist. Many Great Ones spoke about these three bodies. The first - material body. The so-called psychical body. And what we call the noetic and noetical body, calling it ‘spiritual body’.
Now, they speak about these three bodies. Confucius, de Lazo, Buddha, find it in all mystical systems. Christ said more clearly, but who, really is interested now To find out. How am I now Who made me as I am now And what can I do for my bodies I am making a mistake to feel that they are myself. How must I find out that really I am really not the bodies, and the bodies are given me to use them And make good use of them. So human beings now, I say 80% are just living in the darkness of ignorance. What concerns life, the world, and themselves, even as time and place personalities. But we have to find it out.
So, we said we should use the Mind. The Mind is super substance. Formless. Yet in it, are all the laws, causes and principles. It is what we call the “First Expression of the Will Pleasure” of the Infinite Beingness to express itself in itself. In itself, through the Mind. Yes, because the Absolute Infinite Beingness is everywhere, is omnipresent. It is in self.
And we spoke about the Holy Archangels and all the Archangelic orders, Beings really all beyond number as our own Spirit-Self-Ego. We are not different to all those Divine gods, in the Absolute Infinite Beingness. As Spirit, solely once you have never been created - we were, always, in God the Father.
As human beings, we have been created. So we have to study these two states of our existing beingness.
So, this Absolute Infinite Beingness is what I will call its absolute total wisdom. We can trace that, studying the manifestations in life, and see that in every phenomenon of life, in the worlds of existence, starting from the gross material world, from the worm, the ameoba, anything, we’ll find the total wisdom, harmony, and life, and also we’ll find the almightiness of the Absolute Infinite Beingness. Nothing is beyond its control. By studying
20’00”
By studying, what we call the ‘circles of possibilities’, and also the circles of probabilities around any circle of possibility, so now human beings have everything ready. Thanks to those Great Ones, who have worked for centuries and centuries, incarnated and reincarnated, to present these to us. So there is not excuse.
Now for people, because things are easier now for them, the way back is well lighted.
So, the mystery is in learning “what is the Mind”. As super substance, in it having the principle, the causes, and the effects… The effects are in forms to be seen in the worlds of universes, vibrating as substance now, not as super substance. That is the noetical world. The noetical universes. And also, seeing the Mind vibrating in lower frequencies of vibrations, which is what we call the psychical substance. From which is the psychical worlds. Then can study the Will-Pleasure of course, dynamically as energy. As living etheric vitality, which create what we call the ‘etheric doubles’ of these bodies, which are the molds in which the bodies are constructed and sustained every moment. So have to start with them.
And then, study the material body. What do common people now know more than their material form… material forms Are these forms, not only material, gross matter around it, our material human body… ‘cause our form is also having the light of our core substance, and then super substance - the spiritual light - so we must study “what are we as a human form” And what’s that human form Is it a creation Or it would be always and eternally The result is from even Buddhism now.
Because our self consciousness will never be dissolved or annihilated in the whole, because we can never take away from us our human form.
Having what we call it’s spiritual now, body, because unless this is not so, one is enough. And what was the purpose of the Infinite Beingness, of God, of Life, in creating just a creature to be lost Doesn’t give it out any sense. But we have to investigate it.
Now, we have two ways now Studying how the Holy Archangels are using the Mind in creating universes and worlds and our bodies. And outside, and what concerns our petty, now, little self which is reality the shadow of selves. And because ourself is god even shadow is Divine. So, we have now to study left. Put the question now, study, who studied Our spirit-soul-ego-self No, because our beingness, beingness [no surfaces] . Who will study then That
25’00”
place of our divine nature, the pulse of life which is in our present day personality which is all the time changing. Because as a human being, having the bodies, under the control of the Holy Archangels, we have also in the bodies, a kind of time and place selfhood, the self of our present-day personality, which is the rule of the Logos. Because I, a personality, are Logoic. As bodies, we are also Logoic and Holy-Spiritual.
We have just to find out these truth, by introspection, and studying what is taking place in us. In our bodies. Not in our body, only the material body. Because in the same way, we can just start studying the material body, we’ll find out, as reality our psychical body and walk in it and also our noetical body able to [thin] it, and become the masters of these bodies. Who The holy Ego-Spirit-Soul. Now we will it. Because we as human beings we have the parts of life - in reality the heart of our existence is a ray of the Absolute Infinite Beingness and our real self. That’s why Christ said, “The mortal will become immortal and perishable will become imperishable.”
Which means, “what is the perishable, and what is the imperishable” The perishable is what is continuously changing. That part of your personality continually changing, like your material body - we are continually changing. From a spermatozoa and then growing and growing and growing until [fish] an agent will lead the material body away. We are continuously changing. You have to learn what’s the material body - we make the mistake to think it is ourself. Which it isn’t. Now, we shall find the entity.
The personality in the material body. And what we find That the part of the material body, this entity - is a creature. Something created! And that is what we call our psychical [unint.] We must learn [heat] use it. We are using it day and night already subconsciously. Without knowing its existence. You have to know it now. Properly, and using it, becoming master of the psychical body.
Does the psychical body have a form Definitely your form! Only he - that psychical body - is dressed with what we will call psychical substance. And then one should know the existence of his noetical body. Then you come upon exactly the same form! But now we have it in, what we call noetical substance and super substance. We are using it also, subconsciously.
By using subconsciously our psychical body and our noetical body, it make us different from all the other animals all around us, because the animals around us cannot use these levels of consciousness. Thought, and real emotion.
Instead of emotions the animal life around us is expressing instinct. We have also instinct. But the instinct is not what we call emotion! So, we have to study now, the nature of our personality, find in it our self - who we’ll start studying - to reach the self-realization to understand that I am not the bodies. I am using them. How we’ll do that
30’00”
By introspection. You have just to study the behavior of the present day personality. The reactions, taking place in our personality, as a man or as a woman, through the five senses, from the outside world.
Studying, we’ll find out what influenced all these experiences we have, or not as a personality. We start now studying the elementals composing our present day personality. That’s why I said that studying the elementals is the most important thing one has to know. Because, as a building is composed and constructed of materials, we have around us bricks - you cannot have a construction unless you have all these things - you can never have a personality of a man unless these elementals are building it up.
So, the present personality of every human being, man or a woman, is built up by the reactions and the behavior of the elementals composing it and the elementals either we, as personality and not authentic ourself, created or have re-energized. From the psychical atmosphere around us. For these things, one should know them and work with them. Start making what we call self-analysis, and self analysis I mean the emotional side of a personality.
Put another one. Know this what I call the subconscious mind, your subconsciousness, which is the heart of the present day personality. That’s not difficult because, you need is recorded everything you have experienced. There we work. In what you call your subconsciousness.
So one of the first lessons one has to learn is to study itself as a personality. And then develop this personality to higher and higher and higher and higher levels of consciousness to achieve self-realization. Now, becoming master of the bodies, combining them in one form - his human form.
But now, clean, pure, not contaminated. Not dirty. Dirty Yes because in this present day personality, you have very bad muddy pools and stagnant waters - bad smelling - what we call hatred. Enmity. Jealosies. So many, many other human weaknesses in us. We have just to face them boldly, study them, know what they are, and how by using higher elements, such as the thought, exterminate their effect on us. Elementals. I’ve said [unint.] no one can destroy an elemental, once created. Because it’s made of the living matter. But what you can do, we can disenergize it…. so they do slumber in the Cosmic Consciousness. And leave us alone.
The seeker of the truth do show the way how to do it. Study these elementals. Shall we say that these elementals are composing what we say “our psychical body”. And our noetical body. Composing it No. They have their structures, they have their form. They have their own substantive - but still, they are composing the present day psychical and noetical bodies. That means our present day personality. But will not form of what we call the psychical body form. And our
35’00”
noetical form, there are continuously changes…. not in the form, not in the human form… in the purity of that form. As changes are taking place, in our material bodies, but not in our material, no not in our form, materialized. So it happens in the other bodies.
Now, which is the form Our form As human beings The etheric doubles of the bodies, the molds in which these bodies are built up and constructed. Many have observed that after amputating a part of your body - very many say that - the whole foot is removed, and of course, this [ought de cake] his [vatis ting] in the place [the arm he tossed] I said, “what’s that about” He said, “my imagination.” No. Because the material foot can be taken away, but not the form.
And the etheric double of the material body, which is the mold in which the material body is built up, is left. And when what you call esthetic or feeling giving ether is there, they feel pain of course. This is not something one or two people have experienced, but hundreds.
Why another foot is not growing since the mold exists there Because as we are today, we have developed the nervous system which is not easy to create it immediately. Yet in certain animals, parts removed are recreated. There are many. In the snakes, in the lizards, cutting the tail, it will regrow.
We’ve got what we call the cancers… cutting your foot, it will grow. Look, it’s difficult just to grow again a foot - material foot, after amputated - but before this there, nobody can destroy that form. Of course, there are different [roles] in the material world, concerning the gross material body. What about our form in the psychical world We have the substance there instead of the form. As material - gross material - body.
Now, a fellow can kill another fellow’s body, only. And that fellow will find himself in the psychical plane. So the material, gross material form of the body can be destroyed. But can one destroy the psychical body No, because this substance is easily reconstructed. If something happens to a human being in his material body, they plant a bomb, just making the material body in pieces, he will find himself in his psychical body perfectly alright there. And even [tells me] you know… He said this happened, maybe he might remember something himself, yelling “of course, I woke from a very bad dream.’ Do not think it was the reality.
I had this experience many many times, in helping people going to the other side. He’s about to see me… right here. “You’re dead” “Why do you say sir, I’m dead” [This then speak] then they touch you. “How I am dead”
So. There is no such a thing as death, annihilation of the personality, or dissolution of the personality. So one finds himself or herself in the psychical body - but we have different, now, conditions in [unint.] Because that psychical body has around it a shell… a shell hell, or a shell paradise.
40’00”
We create every moment - we said that our personality has in it all the elementals composing it - shall we say that our psychical body, now in our material bodies - it is such a shell hell or shell paradise Definitely.
But, we cannot see that. Clairvoyant people can see it. And I said in a lesson that no one will find himself after the death of the material body in any hell or any paradise he’s not already now.
Another thing we hear from the [heart] - a personality - casting over the material body, I say, “Now, look here, here is your place.” You have done that and that and that.
Many religions speak about ‘The Judgement’. Nothing more blasphemous - such thing does not exist!
One finds simply seems [selwer] herself to the level or the subplane of the psychical world they are vibrating now. We are placing ourselves in the places in which we deserve to be.
So, the psychical body, in it’s form, is not just like the material body, undergoing quick and sudden changes. And so the noetical body. And even, not as a body now, we have what we call our Spiritual self. So that we are not lost, as a self-conscious being in time and place. As a soul. So these things, you can experience. In due course. I say [alen] by reasoning, or by the whip of destiny. The prodigal son has to return back home. Sooner or later.
Now. The way of using the Mind properly - I can’t say it is difficult - but I can’t say it is very easy. What is difficult Just the way of destiny. Karma, as the Hindus say it. I would say that this way this the painful one. It’s a way that gives the personality despair, pain, agony and dis-satisfaction.
So. What is the aim of the seekers of the truth Or the Researchers of the Truth What is their aim In using the right way, of meditation. Using the mind in the proper way. And developing raising up their consciousness to higher and higher levels. To reach - you come to the self-realization. That knowing what we are. And we find out that we are not what we thought we were, that means our material body. The psychical body as emotions. Weaknesses. Reactions. Desires. And many, many other things. And we are not, also, our noetical body, as thoughts, thinking. How we can just…
[tape side ends]
44’30”
How do we find out that we are not our psychical body That means we are not our desires, emotions, weaknesses. How were are not all that That means our present day personality. Because we can check them, know them, master them, change them.
Then we find
45’00”
ourselves that we are not all that that we can master. Note we find that we are not our noetical body. That means, our thoughts. Now we can use the Mind in our gain as reasoning, study what is the thought, how I was using the Mind until now, in serving the emotions and the desires. I can change my thoughts. The way of thinking. But he’s master now, of thought, [seve] times we are not the thought, since we can change it.
Now, we are not the material body, we can do anything without the material body. Certain fools even killing, committing suicide. We are not our emotions, our psychical body, being able study what takes place in our so-called personality, in our sub-consciousness, composing the so-called
psychical body of ours. Not as a form, but as substance in it. Can change it. As I said, they are knowing, the noetical body, we can just work on it. See it, know it, use it.
What are we then What are we then Are we the personality We can be the personality if we wish to be the personality. What are we then
I have a fellow, who was a good poet. Composing poems and writer, he was a good writer. He was in the inner circle. Fascinated by his dreams, use that with, using the noetical and psychical bodies, I can say, in a clean and nice way! He was a very good fellow.
He got up and told me “What are you leaving to me now You take away from me my body, my emotions, a psychical body, my thoughts, I am nothing!” I said, “No, you are everything.” No need to be some thing. You can be every thing.
Of course he left, to decide just to write good poems, emotional things and all that. I know, sooner or later he will come back. But, what are we now That we should, without fear, enter in that state Do we have now a form Or we are formless We are we whether we have the form or not. Because in reaching these high levels, of self-consciousness, now, the self is not in need of a certain form. You are awakened, as god. But as god, you can get any form you like. And know everything you like. Which is just getting what I call at-one-ment or oneness becoming one with everything you want to know. These are the higher, higher levels of self-consciousness. Many times you hear of these gods. But [unint.] what are they really What is at-one-ment Or oneness
This is the nature of our real self. Real self now but who is the fellow investigating things Not my present day personality No. The parts of life in your present day personality which now reaches the self-realization.
So, you have to sacrifice nothing. You say, can I, in that divine state - you call it divine state, recollect anything I like I’m telling you now, you cannot do it. You cannot remember your past incarnations, because the mercy of God said that you should forget to have the chance of going forward.
So you are now, not seeing the reality
50’00”
when you reach those levels, all your re-incarnations will be an open book to you. You’ll know everything, concerning you, only Anybody, anything around you. This is what I call super consciousness. Holy Spirit goes there [unint.] but you can join it together and make it Self super consciousness. This is the reality. Finding out what you are, not who you are. Because we don’t care what you had been, where you had been Alex, Mary, Ahmed, [unint.] yes, full with pages of garbage you have retained.
You can go through them, if you like, I think. Live again. Because all your incarnations, composed of elementals, which are living elementals - they might be dormant in the Cosmic Consciousness, yes, but they are in you. Quite because the Cosmic Consciousness. In you. In you where In the personality No. In your super consciousness. So you are gaining, not losing, and what [unint.] not only Christ said that “the Kingdom of the Heavens is in us”. It’s our inner nature.
So everything is given to you. Life. What’s life Manifestation. Of my self-consciousness in certain place, in certain period. What did Joshua the Christ say The forms, materialized or otherwise, is not life. Don’t be afraid of those killing the material body, but not being able to touch your soul. Your selfhood. Just find the Spirit Ego Self, it is the Spirit which gives life. Which gives life.
And what he says in a place that, nearly, he should be observed, at least by the dignitaries of the churches, and they [pete] it. My father loves me. And I love the father, I am the father, because I can lay down my life anytime I like and take it back again. That was him [houser] I am the life and the resurrection. Who understood those great words They have meaning in it.
So, finding that self of yours, it doesn’t need the self to have a form, it can get any form, and by honest tending one by any Archangel, everything that’s a great, great privilege which the Archangels, your brothers, do not have it. Thus when the prodigal son’s return back home, the father gave him a golden ring. The ring is the symbol of eternity. Knowing what is time in the eternal present, which the Archangels do not know.
Many times I have asked many Archangels of various kinds “What’s time” They look at me. “What’s the time making” Now. Or, they say “Now”. But now human beings know what is eternity and they know what is time as present, past and future. We are privileged.
Can we get any form we like Leave aside our human form, and I mean only just the form as innate and our present day personality. Even as a Soul. And get it back
But you can do it now, even as a personality. Every 24 hours at least for some time you enter in that state of phenomical non-existence. Material body lies in bed, and you, as a personality now, you think you are uninsulated. You are telling the non-existence. Yet we wake up in the material body and you re-compose yourself, and Mary is Mary and George is George. Not less. So, you self
55’00”
can recompose even the present day personality. Just study this phenomenon. I had this question from someone in the inner circle. “Yes of course because I have a material body, and because I recompose as you say, my present day personality, as [yamist] in my material body, but you have [unint.]. Can you not recompose [yannist] I said in your psychical body But how, you are doing it sometimes when you see a dream - and then you are losing it, because you don’t know the way, how to keep it. How to live self consciously in the psychical plane.
So, human beings are living sub-consciously, even in the material plane. Sub-consciously in the psychical plane, not even sub-consciously in the noetical plane because people are not using the Mind.
They expect other to think for them. So we have to develop our faculties as a personality, using our inner selves’ capacities. We can do that, by using the Mind. No excuse. God gave us the means to do it. An Joshua the Christ not only mentions about these means given us, but he’s also persuading us to do it. Giving us the right, the persuasion how we will do it. “Be ye perfect, as perfect is your Heavenly Father”. So far, not less. So, what do we - will accept And how do we live now
Just, a little step above the animals all around us. And sometimes even
being worse than the animals around us, in cruelty.
Killing the bodies of one another make you worse.
So, what is now the duty of every human being to do To use impressions and most precious and Holy gift given him, the Mind, by the Father God. And, Joshua Immanuel the Christ gave only one prayer - what I call the Sunday Prayer - but what is that prayer
Our Father Who Art In Heaven - you have to realize that our Father is in the Heavens
Hallowed be thy Name - it is already there, but you have to acknowledge it In Us. - to the heaven in us.
Thy Kingdom Come, as it is in the heaven, the heaven, come where In us.
Give us our daily bread - which is our daily bread A man cannot live simply on bread, Christ said. He said “I am the bread of life”. And make [eucho], you know, symbolically it says, “This is my body”. To give you eternal life. “This is my blood.” Who understood really, what Joshua the Christ was saying and teaching by all that.
But it’s necessary to forgive the trespasses of the others if we want to be forgiven. He gives a parable on that, very clearly.
In temptation. Of course, human beings should be tempted, just, to gain his way, getting the strength to become - the stories of that [striking] - that’s why God is giving us these tests.
What’s now evil
Deliver us from evil - what’s evil It’s not just simply reciting, for thousand times, this prayer without knowing really it means
60’00”
[Ja] enter in the meaning of Joshua the Christ. So, what is the duty of every human being expecting - let us use the Church now language -
“liberache” - really I don’t like this one - but we’ll use that - to study our behavior in the society. “And forgive the trespasses of the others, so that we’ll expect God to forgive our trespasses.” I once gather - to him - to [send] learn about that. So he gives there, the way.
Just realize, that we need to be Divine breath of life - and not that made from wheat or maize, because he said one cannot live simply on material bread. So, we should find out the first step, Who We Are, the pulse of life, in our present day personality of a man or a woman, and start now, seriously studying the behavior of this present day personality of ours. That mean studying our desires, our emotions. What is the power in them In driving us To enmities and so many things Just to study our present day personality. This is the way how to know the composition of our so- psychical body, not necessarily its form. Because its form, our human form - its own [leathers] - is obeying different laws than the material laws. ‘Cause, the seeker of the truth - what he sees in what you call exosomatisis will be taught by his brother instructor and guide the laws of the psychical plane, because the laws in the psychical plane are not the same as the laws in the material plane. They are different. This is world of the four dimension and this is the world of the three dimension. And also he will be taught by his brother instructor and guide, the laws in the noetical plane.
How By raising up his consciousness to self-consciousness, because all people are living now in the psychical world, either dreaming, or slumbering. Coming back, remembering nearly nothing of their life in the psychical world.
So. What you have to do is just to raise our consciousness - the consciousness of the present day personality - to what I call our self consciousness, even self-now considering our material entity. George and Maria. To find out that no, in reality I am not that, though I am making that entity which is my personality live - I am not that.
And I gave this thing - who is what somebody - who are you You say, “I am George”. Believing to a name, and bringing his - my - his human form, because he cannot bring his psychical or noetical form.
But when one reaches to higher levels of consciousness - the self-consciousness - when I put the question “who are you” - whether as a
man or a woman, because this I-ness has no sex - there, they are not a man or a woman. You are a soul, and the soul has no sex. And if I ask again, “who are you” I am I. But we’ve cut it [unint.]. As big am I as the universe.
Because believe me, your
65’00”
inner space, in the Kingdom of the Heavens which are in you, the space is not smaller than the outside space. Which means, that we can move about as a spirit, any time you like anywhere you want to go.
Joshua the Christ says that “The Spirit is giving life, and the spirit can move anywhere it likes.” It is in the Bible, in the Gospel. So it gives the ability of the spirit-self-god.
So, are you losing anything, in just developing in your petty little self the real self-consciousness of who you really are Transmuting the present day personality into your Divine State You are not losing anything. You are having - not creating - having everything. Seek the Kingdom of the Heavens and everything will you be, added to you, everything. Not certain things.
What’s that everything Matter will be a toy in your hands. You can know what’s materialization and dematerialization and changing the nature of matter. Only that! Anything you can do in the psychical plane. You are becoming master of the worlds. You can just handle the Mind now, as reason, and in other ways of the expression of the Mind - in your self super consciousness. Just being in many places at the same time if you wish to be. Can one materialize ‘a body’ Just like this body In many parts of the world
If he knows the laws in the psychical plane, and the ability of the form - projecting it - he can do it. Of course he can do it. No need to dissolve his body, and just rematerialize it somewhere else - he can materialize any number of bodies he wishes to. And shake hands with people.
But why choose to do this To stupefy people You shouldn’t do that, unless it is necessary to do that. To help. I’m telling you, the powers of
the Invisible Helpers, accompanied by the High Intelligences, are not limited. But, one is having the responsibility now, casting completely away and isolating completely the personal egoism - is not just entering in the duties of his brothers the Holy Archangels. But he can do it. He can do everything.
Seek the kingdom of the heaven and everything will be given to you - will be added to you. One who has faith - not things I am doing now - faith as the seed of a mustard, can tell that one then go I need to leave go, he can doing what I am doing and still more things he can do. Which means, one should develop his real self superconsciousness. This is the way. And I said, everyone sooner or later has to do it. Either by following the way of studying, learning, meditating, or, through the centuries with the whip of destiny.
Destiny is giving lessons. They repeat the lessons - are precious lessons - so when you see somebody suffering, you should know that
70’00”
it’s not a punishment. It’s a lesson that that fellow should have to wake up. Because, it is a blasphemy to think that there is a punishing God. God is not punishing. He is all merciful. Now, we shall make a mediation.
70’31”
Relax completely. Now. Bring to your consciousness the personality consciousness, a person you love. Member of the family, son, daughter, father, mother, husband, wife, any person you love very much. And bring that fellow in your noetical body. We are working now on the noetical level. Bring in front of you, the form of that beloved person.
Who are you now You are he or she. That is yourself. You are becoming he or she. Now bring that person in front of you. Expressing love. Making your heart vibrate, even the material body.
Of course from your subconscious you would come in your consciousness events which are common to you in that [unint.]
Leave them aside. Simply express love to that fellow, you love. You are
becoming that fellow now. In form, and in love. Can we help that fellow, now
Of course we can. Whether that fellow is near you or hundreds and thousands of miles away, you are becoming broadcasting station, and that fellow will becoming receiving. Love is uniting souls. And even personalities. Of course you can help, that fellow who would be in need of help.
You go on practicing these things, a second time, you are telling toward, we call oneness or at-one-ment, with the person you love.
Can we love a Holy Person Joshua the Christ It’s much easier because he is everywhere and in us. Of course you can. Come in conscious contact with him. Or with the Divine mother. Many, with Saint Francis. Or with other Holy Persons.
Now what’s the Mind, and what is for making, or visualization Is that imagination No.
75’00”
It’s creating thought. You may say ‘is it what we are call constructing elementals’ Definitely it is!
But the whole work in the universes is the work of the elementals! Unless you have them, how you have creation
The whole universe material and all through our universe is the matter realization of the elementals of the Archangels.
This has nothing to do with lazy fantasy or imagination. You must learn now, the real visualization, and form of image construction. By so doing you can even materialize them.
Now you see that you bring the image, or the likeness of that person. It goes away - and comes again - and goes away - and comes again, it is because there is a turmoil in your so-called subconsciousness. You have to calm it down! And get what you want, and place there what you want.
And you can do it by introspection. To calm down the so-called noetical atmosphere, in you.
So, those who want to progress in these things, they must practice what I call visualization, or form making. Seeing things. And later, see them more real, and they are real, because they can be materialized.
But are not there to become magicians.
You use these powers only in psychical healing. You would use what I call materialization and dematerialization on living matter in the bodies of your brothers and sisters.
(very low) that’s tomorrow, meditation…
78’22”
[end of session… ]
[group noises]
80’45”96 end of recording