1992.12.14
Daskalos-Dec-14-1992-A-Being-Human.mp3 transcription by rhr
00’00”
… Our Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us, and lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and power, and the glory, forever. Absolute Infinite Beingness, God, everlasting life, love and mercy, manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness, enlighten our minds to understand you are the truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love toward you, and toward all other human beings. Amen.
Today the lesson is very important. In relation to the constitution of a human being. Concerning the human being.
We said that the Absolute Infinite Be-ness, God the Father, is always in its self-sufficiency, self-abundance. In this Absolute Infinite Be-ness is also the Will-pleasure to manifest itself in itself, presenting now each self as the
Absolute Infinite Beingness. The Logos. Logos means the Expression. We don’t have a 2nd God. It’s the Absolute Be-ness, manifesting itself as the Absolute Beingness. To express its Will-pleasure to manifest itself in itself, that means to create the worlds of Existence. We said that the moment, that is always, it was always, it will always be. This Will-Pleasure is manifested from the Absolute Infinite Be-ness and the Absolute Infinite Beingness the Lord and the Holy Spirit emanates the MIND.
IS the MIND the nature of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness and Beingness? Its expression, yes. The MIND is we will call it geist, it’s not the Holy Spirit. It’s Holy, not Divine. Now, said in the Absolute Infinite Be-ness are Beings. Many orders of Beings. How many? Nobody can know, not even the Archangels. These Beings now, that means self-conscious feeling themselves apart from the Be-ness, in the Be-ness, in full oneness with the Be-ness, yet feeling they are themselves. This makes what we call the multiplicity of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness. And expressing themselves, they express themselves in a common way, which is the Absolute Infinite Beingness, the Logos.
And the Holy Spirit.
05’00”
So what are we? One class of these Beings. But there are many classes of these beings. In the Absolute Infinite Be-ness, all the Beings are similar. But expressing themselves in the Absolute Infinite Beingness now, in the Logos, each of the beings is expressing our own self-identity. Why? Who knows? And then they classify themselves dressing themselves in their own nature in the MIND, to their Divine orders. They make the Archangelic Orders. And we make the human - the Heavenly Humans - our order, so the Humanity is one of the Archangelic Orders. We are sons of God. Gods. As the Holy Archangels are. But now, we enter in the worlds of the manifestation, in the worlds of existence. Is there any other kinds of worlds beyond the worlds of existence and the worlds of the Beingness? Maybe.
Maybe. But what we can know as human beings are the worlds of existence. And those of the human beings who have raised themselves beyond the human being, entering in those worlds, they couldn’t find words to express anything more splendid than the worlds of existence. Enough
for us human beings as long as we live in the material body and the other bodies, to understand the Total Wisdom and the Almightiness of the Infinite Beingness, and Be-ness, to our capacity of understanding.
Now, great ones through these 10 centuries, many many centuries back, have engaged themselves in studying these problems concerning the human being. How? They found out that they can use the MIND, as thought, in introspection, in research to know the truth. They got advantage of this their own Divine nature, of thinking, using the MIND. They found out that all the other animal life all around them could not do that. This made them understand that the human beings are gods, and not simply creations as the vegetable kingdom and the animal kingdom.
What has proved really that we are gods? Creating, even sub-consciously creating. Because we have changed our life. The animals are living in the same way they have all through the centuries… the lions as lions, the cows as cows, the dogs are dogs, because they could not use the MIND to express their own nature! It’s not the MIND that creates all that but we through the MIND that creates all that.
Now you have a human being he has a big sheet, he’s dressing himself, presenting himself, in his own way - not in the way of the animals. Any lion is behaving as all the lions. And every cow is just a cow, as all other cows. And so are all the animals.
But not all human beings are the same as an ego-personality. They’re all different, because they express their divine nature - never mind if it is in an animal way of living just living like all the other animals - yet, you are expressing a god. In what? In expressing will power,
10’00”
Creativeness, and of course our own self. You a say ‘our own self now as human beings as hellene, alex, are we gods?’ In nature yes we are, but in expression we are human. We have double nature now. As we have a body with many members yet we have a heart which beats and keeps the life in the material body, which is very very different from the hands, the fingers, the nose and other parts of the body - the heart. So, the heart - spiritual heart - of every human being is god. His own being self-ego. Because unless that is not so, a human being cannot live and exist. Sp
we are double. We have the animal life - but we are not animals, we are gods - expressing ourselves in our Divine nature.
So, now, how a human being is created, and an animal, any kind of animal, is created? We have seen our difference from the animal life all around us. We’ll not take just the vegetable kingdom, only the animal kingdom.
What’s a human being, being now, coming from the Be-ness, passing through the Logos, entering in the Idea of Man - our own nature, human nature - expresses itself as the Spirit, is accompanied by a brother of that Spirit Being, who in the orders of the Archangelic beings we call ‘Thrones’, next to the Be-ness. Becoming what we call a ‘Metathronios’. That Spirit, egofies, become one by oneness to the Spirit-Ego of ourselves who is supposed to be humanized and incarnated. This is the first process.
What is created now, in that Being, which our Ego-Spirit being and the egofied already, Metathronios, our so-called Guardian Archangel. They get the idea of man in the Be-ness in the Total Wisdom of the Be-ness, to work on it, creating what I’ll call the Permanent Atom, that point on which the human being will be created, so the Permanent Atom is the first thing to be created. The Seed. As we have in every seed no matter if it’s very small, big or bigger, we have the circle of possibilities of that kind of manifestation, so, is the permanent atom.
Now I said in a lesson if you get the seed of an eucalyptus tree, very very small, just like the head of a pin, and see it… ‘what’s that?’ As seed. Yet within it is the circle of possibilities of that kind of existing life. You plant it, and you give it the right circumstance and that grows to big eucalyptus tree. It has in it the circle of possibilities. Shall look at the circle of possibilities of any manifestation of life, its permanent atom? Yes. It’s permanent atom. But the permanent atom of an animal or anything else is in the Total Wisdom of the Almighty, it doesn’t carry with it a god. In our case our permanent atom carries, in it, our Divine nature. Which is different.
So every creation in the animal life
15’00”
has behind it an angel - an elemental of the Archangels and an Archangel. And the whole process in the world of creation which is taking place in the
vegetable kingdom and in the animal kingdom is taking the same place in a human being. Which means that the Archangels of creation get from the Absolute Total Wisdom of God that principle that reflects the thought and the form… the thought of it creates the form, the thought of God creates the form, which everlasting permanent. There was not time that forms now existing were not in the Absolute Total Wisdom of God as principles. Nothing is created new. Everything was, is, and everything will exist in the course of time.
Now, we live the animal kingdom. Behind the animal kingdom is the Archangel, the angel, the Archangels of the Elements working on that form, but not an individual god-being. In a human being, soon, our own be-ing spirit self with the Guardian Archangels which is the Metathronios, start to manifest themselves. A set agent must present itself to complete a triangle. Other two sides are not forming a triangle. That’s the will of the Be-ness of God, calling the Archangels all the Archangels to participate, to prepare around that permanent atom which is our Spirit-Ego being and our metathronios and also the logos.
The certain expression to work on the Absolute Total Wisdom concerning the human being. So in the Permanent Atom of a Human being is the Total Wisdom, the seat of the Father. Of the Be-ness. To whom? To the Beingness, to the Logos. “Let us create man”… so man is a creation now.. to our image and according to our likeness. That’s complete. So all the Archangels of the Elements while the Absolute Be-ness vibrates becoming the Absolute Infinite Beingness, covibrates with these Archangelic orders, they start creating the work on the Permanent Atom to build up the bodies of a human being. So what is created? Created now? Around the permanent atom, the Permanent atom is not something created by the Archangels, it’s our own self everlasting. It is in what we call our form, the human form, our own nature, Divine nature. As gods, human beings.
Now, they start to get that permanent atom in expressing the Will-pleasure of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness, now working as the Absolute Infinite Beingness the logos or the manifestation, they start the creation of the bodies. Now, the body must have a form. Everything existing around us must have their own form. It must our human form. Our Divine nature. We are never losing our human form,
20’00”
with our characteristics. So on that human form they are working. They did not created the human form, they found it ready to work on it. As a human being the form is not work of the Holy Archangels. They get it. They get a blueprint by Absolute Infinite Be-ness to work with and construct a building. Is that the blueprint you call it, just that, to work on it?
So they start building around the form. Which is luminous, splendid. Magnificent. Pure. Divine. Our human form. Then working on it they create the noetic body. That form I am saying now is our Spirit form. I don’t want to call it a body. It’s a formula. It’s not a body, because that form, the human form, our so-called, call it never mind, ‘spiritual body’, is not limited by time, place, space or any other limitations. It’s god. It’s our Divine everlasting self. Immortal god. So. Now we take the form, what is this form? The human form. The human form of every one of you in place. Everywhere. But now this form had to be presented and preserved in bodies.
Your own Ego-be-ness and being - your real being - is not limited in the bodies, it’s everywhere. Can we develop this part of our beingness at least, if not the be-ness, to vibrations beyond the limits of the bodies? Yes. We can do that. But who, reaching that splendor of the Divine self found ever words to explain what are this Divine states of our real real nature? Of course the Logos, Joshua Immanuel the Christ as a human being knew. He was feeling that, he was expressing that as a human being. But with what words was he able to explain even to his disciples? This Divine state of the Beingness. They have asked him about Divine things… he says ‘Did you understand the material things in the worlds of existence so that I will be able to speak to you about the Divine things?’
Yet what did he say? When the Holy Spirit will be in you, you will understand. That will make you understand. The Holy Spirit. Which means that we are not only the god being our own being, you are expressing also the Logos beingness - we are Logoic - and also our Spiritual nature, because the Holy Spirit is everywhere and IN us.
So, as the Absolute Infinite Being Be-ness, Beingness, God is. We call it the Triac, since a human being. The human being, their soul, and the permanent personality. That’s how we are image and likeness of God.
And all the Holy Archangels of the Elements are working every moment in creating the universes so they are working in the human body of every human being. To create and sustain a human being’s bodies. Only? In every animal in every
05’00”
plant, everything which has form, these Holy Archangels of the Elements are working just to have what we call the manifestation of a phenomena of life - from the amoeba to the galaxy. So one understand this great work, immense great work of the Archangels is amazing. But these Archangels, each one of them, and that’s a group they get and their Total Wisdom and almightiness and force, strength, power from the Logos and the Holy Spirit, which are one.
Now a general description of the worlds of existence. Now we said everything existing and having a materialized form.. not the form, the form is not the creation of the MIND, but the MIND now is the stuff by which the Holy Archangels as elements - the Lords of Elements - will dress us that form to create the bodies of the human beings. As we said, the first body we can understand is our noetic body, which is a reflection of our Spirit-Ego self in form. It is still in the worlds of Ideas, Principles and Causes. The reflection are giving us form dressed in the mind as the Noetical body. Having in it all our qualities as a thinking person and being. Two different things. So thought is the product of the MIND, how we are using the MIND, but it’s not ourselves who is behind to use the MIND and to manifest itself as a thought, and later as an emotion, as an intention. So we return to the permanent atom, which is as small as the point of a pin, yet as great as the universes. It’s not a matter of size, it’s a matter of quality.
And on it, they start building the bodies. So in the permanent atom we’ll find our being self and the Egofied Archangel which is not ourself, and it is also ourself, by oneness. So it it there is everything related to our circle of possibilities. The circle of possibilities belongs to our being self ego, and to the Guardian Archangel. But what about circles, the many circles of probabilities now? That belongs to the Holy Archangels. And they are the judges, and together with the Archangel of the order concerning the bodies of a human being.
The noetical, psychical and the material. So now we have 3 bodies that
we can know and work with them. The material body, the so-called emotional or psychical body because it’s used more by the personality as a soul, and the noetical body. These three bodies. But they should have a connecting link between them, which is the mould in which and by which they are built and they are sustained.
30’00”
So what is that link which joins these bodies, from above, below. The so-called etheric doubles. So we have an etheric double of the material body, have an etheric double of the so-called psychical body, and an etheric double of the noetical body. As we have 3 bodies, we have three etheric doubles. Now the power, the force, the energy is on the etheric doubles then on the bodies. The bodies are created by the etheric doubles. So in the etheric doubles we have the Total Wisdom of the Almighty and the Holy Archangels are building them in and through the etheric doubles.
Now I’m not going to speak and say anything about the etheric double between the noetical body and the noetic - call it body - I’m not going to speak about the etheric double between the material body and the so-called psychical or emotional body. But I’ll speak about the relation between the material body and it’s etheric double. Which really concerns us. The etheric double of our material body has the form of the human body intact, complete. It is the mould in which and through which the material body is built, from the spermatozoa to the old age. So. The etheric double of our material body changing its appearance - not the human form, because the human form is in it - in all the stages of development, changing its appearance causes changes in the appearance of the material body. So through the etheric double of our material body, the Holy Archangels of the elements are working for the well-being of our material body.
Every blood vessel, every little gland, everything existing in our material body, just blood glob, and anything if first created in the etheric double and then in the material body. So as you have the general mould, in which the whole material body is built up, have billions and billions of little moulds, every everything molecule, every atom, every organ is to be built and sustained. Can you imagine this great work done?
So many channels of creativeness by the Holy Archangels every hair and Christ said the hair in on your body are counted, and that developing each one with mathematical precision. So what is the form now of the permanent atom. Anything concerning the circle of possibilities of a human being… life, the manifestation of life in a human form. Now you know that the human for is Divine - not the creation of the MIND or the creation of the Archangels. But it is in the multiplicity and the Total Wisdom of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness from which it comes down. Not only for the human being but for every every form of existence and manifestation of life.
Just imagine this great Wisdom. Total Wisdom. Almightiness we’ll see it perfect
35’00”
in the life of an amoeba. And we see it perfect in the life of a galaxy. Perfect in which way? Motion, movement. Because everything existing is manifesting the unmanifested motion of the Infinite Be-ness. So motion is the nature of Life. Motion is in Absolute Infinite Be-ness. Motion without anything moving, yet motion. The law.
And because that motion is when something to be moving starts to exist, we see manifested the motion. Can we call motion the nature of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness? Yes. Can you understand life without motion? At least on the material plane and on anything else, motion - not simply moving - changing the place of the material body - but as vibration, force, power, energy and in the etheric double, the etheric vitality. Now etheric vitality. So I see in this energy, in this kind of motion, life in it.
Etheric vitality. Now, if we would start to understand what is ‘vitality’? Can you ever see manifested vitality unless there is motion in it? Vibrations. No need to bother more about it because it’s very deep. Deep problem which human mind cannot conceive. What is this kind of etheric vitality. Yet this etheric vitality is our life - the life of our material body - and the life of our personality. Even so, yes, because even that is the MIND in different frequencies of vibrations. Now we can just speak much about what we call vibrations, frequencies, energy and all that, without exhausting this matter, even if volumes of books will be written.
If you ask me what I know from my own experiences, many many things which cannot be expressed in words. Then? Well then, raise yourselves higher and higher and higher in what I called consciousness, self-consciousness, superconsciousness, because all these expressions of your being… as I show, is nothing but vibrations. You are vibrating in time and in yourself and not in what we call place or space. So now have the vibration in time and place. But you can have also vibration in yourself in the Kingdom of the Heavens which is in yourself.
Now, what are these kinds of vibrations? Kinds of vibrations, to the outer world is in one direction, but these vibrations which are the vibrations of yourself now as a Soul and Being Spirit are toward all directions and back again. You will not be able to understand that unless you experience that. Now these kinds of vibrations of your present day personality is giving you the impressions through the five senses. Seeing - you are seeing things. How you are seeing things? First of all, you understand the existence of things by seeing things. Again through the etheric double of your material body. Through what I call the imprinting ether. So, you understand things. But you receive through the light the impressions from a certain distance from yourself. You simply interpret these vibrations
40’00”
these frequency of vibrations you call ether, and sight somewhere in a place of your material brains. Have given these lessons before. You see a lovely tree, full of fruit, flowers that’s lying in it. When you go away from it to some distance, you’ll see it smaller. With less details on it. You go far away you’ll see just like a greenish spot there. You’ll not even say if its a tree or something else. But if you’ll give you strong lenses, a telescope, seeing it, you’ll see it as if it was very near you. You can see even the flowers and the fruit in it. Even the birds in the branches. Yet that’s very far from you. But you can see it in the same way you’ll see it as if you were there. Which means seeing means you are just interpreting this etheric vibrations which you call ether, having in it the surface of anything that its striking and reflecting from it. This is the conclusion.
Sight of your Soul being is not like that. You can be anywhere and see everywhere and receive impressions from everywhere. Now consider these two kinds of seeing, conceiving and understanding. I speak to you of my own experiences. A human being now seeing through my eyes,
though I can see much better than anyone else can see, though my material eyes are not so good now. Never mind, but I can see. When I was operated, I came out of my body, I could hear the doctor talking. I could see him working. From where? Above. From every side, from inside, seeing what he was doing. Knowing everything he was doing. What kind of seeing is that?
Something else, I could magnify things if I wanted to see them bigger, which is an ability of the Soul-consciousness. Could I feel my material body? Now this is a most important point. If I wanted to, I could. But why should I feel the pain? How? By just putting in my material body that part of my etheric double I am calling it [unitelligible].
But the injection or some other way are driving away not the etheric double, but that quality of the etheric double which is what we call aesthetic ether or feeling-giving ether, because if the etheric double gets out of the material body as creative ether, then the material body starts decaying. Dying. So never the etheric double can leave the material body, but certain qualities of the etheric double can withdraw and come back again. The kinetic ether can go out and come back again. The aesthetic ether can go out and come back again. The imprinting ether? When the imprinting ether was in reality in the etheric double and the present personality? Unless you use it yourself. But it needs deep thought to understand these differences. And the creative ether is never leaving the material body so the etheric double is the creative ether. Used by the Holy Spirit, the Logos and the Archangels.
Now seeing. Compare the seeing through the two eyes, just interpreting vibrations of light
45’00”
giving certain sensations in certain centers in the material brain where there is darkness there. It is just a branch of study that is most, most interesting. But now consider what is my own experiences I taught you out of the material body seeing the doctor operating my body - taking things out - bowels with salt water, something like that. Not seeing from above but from every side, inside, in my own bowels. What’s this kind of sight? Much bigger, better. So, who is seeing? The etheric double? Or me? Is seeing a product of what I call life in the material body or my own Divine
nature? In seeing? Maybe you’ll say both. To some extent yes but if you develop your self-consciousness higher, then you see that it’s you and not the qualities of the MIND, even as vitality.
Now returning to our etheric double. The etheric double is the workshop of the Archangels in building and sustaining the material body. Molecule by molecule, organ, everything. It is the workshop. It is also the center to the personality of what I call the subconsciousness. There we’ll enter, just to study the nature of the subconsciousness.
[end of side]