1992.12.15 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. ‘Mastery of the Holy Mind’ transcription by rhr
00’00”
… Our Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us, and lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and power, and the glory, forever. Absolute Infinite Beingness, God, everlasting life, love and mercy, manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness, enlighten our minds to understand you are the truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love toward you, and toward all other human beings. Amen.
Just a revision. What is always, was always and will always be is the Absolute Infinite Be-ness. God the Father. But this Absolute Infinite Be-ness, no one can know anything, except that this Be-ness is in its self-sufficiency. In this Absolute Infinite Be-ness are billions and billions and billions of Be-ings in it. It is the Be-ness multiplicity. One God, the Absolute Be-ness.
Now, these Beings in the Absolute Beingness, are similar to this Absolute Be-ness, in what? In the self-hood. The Absolute Be-ness is the Absolute Infinite Self-hood.
Now in the Absolute Be-ness, apart from the self-sufficient is also the will-pleasure to manifest itself in itself, now we can see what we call the Total Wisdom. To manifest itself in itself, is in it the Almightiness. Now we don’t see a second God, we see a manifestation of God, and God the Absolute Be-ness now we call it Absolute Infinite Beingness. Through it will pass Beings, for manifestation, to express the Will-pleasure of manifesting the Absolute Be-ness itself in itself. Where? Does that Absolute Infinite Be-ness in Omnipotent, Omniscient.
So, we’ll call now this expression ‘The Logos’. Of course the Almightiness of this Absolute Be-ness now expressed in the Absolute and through the Absolute Beingness, we call it the ‘Holy Spirit’. Now again, the Holy Spirit has nothing to do with ‘Geist’. Unfortunately the Germans call it ‘Heiligen Geist’.
05’00”
Has nothing to do with ‘Geist’. ‘Geist’ is the MIND. And the Holy Spirit is
the Absolute Infinite Beingness, in expression of course, through the MIND. This Holy Spirit will express its majesty in its works. In the creation. This is what we’ll call the ‘macrocosm’. The Absolute Infinite Be-ness is. The Absolute Infinite Beingness Is and Exists, and expresses itself. Now we have in the macrocosm the universes. Now the universes. after the Will-pleasure of the Infinite Beingness now, to express itself in itself, causes the emanation from the Absolute Infinite Beingness, the Logos, and from all the similar-to-it Beings, the Archangelic Orders, the emanation of the MIND. Now we have the MIND, call it ‘Geist’. But that’s not the Holy Spirit. It is the material, the substance by which the universes - all the universes - will be made. But who is going to make them?
The MIND is the means, it is the Holy Archangels, the Lords of the Elements. Now we have the MIND - as far as we human beings can understand it and conceive it - as supersubstance, substance, etherial substance matter, and matter. Matter is the MIND solid. Nothing exists which is not the MIND, the MIND in different vibrations, in different frequencies of vibrations. And we spoke yesterday about motion, about movement. Call it whatever you like. Which is one of the characteristics of the Logos. One of the characteristics of life, now expressed through the Logos.
So, life, or everything living, will have in it motion. And a form. Now, the form.
When we see the MIND as supersubstance, in what I’ll call it noetic plane, there the MIND is the inextinguishable light. And we need that the Laws, Causes and Principles. The radiation of this, in lower frequencies of MIND are giving us the forms now dressed in the MIND. Because the forms - all forms - are in the Absolute Infinite Be-ness in the Total Wisdom. This is what characterizes the Total Wisdom. The emanation from the Principles, from the Laws, from the Causes, of the billions of billions and billions of forms. Then we have the forms, reflected from the Causes, Laws and Principles of the noetic plane, as forming now in the Noetical plane.
The Noetical plane, with the MIND we will call it, substance…not super substance…then further reflection of these Laws, Causes and Forms, we have them in what we call the psychical planes. Still more. We have them in the etherial planes. Still more extension, we have the material planes. And the church
10’00”
and those wise ones who had formulated the various religions speak about 7 heavens. Or 7 universes. But maybe there are many more. There are seven that a human being can understand and express himself in them. So. We’ll define them. The noetic plane is everywhere. The supersubstance of the MIND. Now, where is the noetical plane? Each planet, each heavenly body, has its own now noetical plane. And in it, the noetic supersubstance. There is no place that there is not the noetic supersubstance of the MIND. But now we have the noetical plane giving us space as place. From this point of view we can observe what we call space.
And again, what is space? Who can know what is space? A human being - how can a human being conceive what is space? Unless we see that in lower vibrations of the MIND, lower than the noetical plane, to the psychical plane to see it more formulated.
And then we see it as solid heavenly bodies. The galaxies, and in the galaxies, the solar systems. The planets, everything solid now. Can you understand Life, in these worlds existing, without motion? The center of the galaxy goes around its own axis, projecting fiery, huge, pieces of it - according to their size, their substance … nearly they are the same substance… The Holy Archangels of the order of the Uriels are classifying them in certain distance from the matter source. Again and they rotate, they go round the center of the galaxy. Again, those big fiery masses who are the Suns, will do the same thing, project, going round what we call the planets. You know how many millions of solar systems are in our galaxy? Now orthodox science as to say much about this. Many solar systems. Each galaxy has its own solar systems, Each solar system has its own planets, each planet has its satellite, and so on. And how many galaxies can a human being see, with the means he has of seeing? Some, yes, some of them. And all of them are in what we call, but now we understand what is space because we see it as a place - that something is taking place there.
Now, studying all these things we see that the macrocosm, as we understand it, is. The Absolute Infinite Be-ness, self sufficiency, and Will-pleasure are manifesting. The Absolute Infinite Beingness now the
Logos, expressing the Will-pleasure of the Infinite Be-ness, its pleasure of course, and the pleasure of all those billions of Archangels, of the Archangelic orders, just formulating what we call the supersubstance
15’00”
of the MIND to work with. They classify themselves then, to what we call orders, Archangelic Orders, Lords of the Elements. What are the elements? The MIND, in various frequencies of vibrations. And we see their work using, we call it now, the Divine Plan, which is in the Total Wisdom of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness and the Absolute Infinite Beingness. That’s the macrocosm.
Then we see, the psychical planes, each material object, each material object satellite, planet has a psychical counterpart, has a noetical counterpart, and is floating in what we call the noetic plane. This is the macrocosm. What is the microcosm now? Which means a human being? We? We correspond to the macrocosm… the Absolute Infinite Be-ness. In us, it’s our real self. The god in us, our own nature, as Spirit-Ego beings. Spirit-Ego beings? What are we in that state? Who can say?
And then we have what we call the Absolute Infinite Beingness, the Logos macrocosmically. Macrocosmically our relation is our self, now, spirit being. And we have what we call the expressions of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness. The Will-pleasure manifested, do you see? Further creations which we call, now, noetical and psychical plane.
In us is our Soul Self-hood, soul Ego-being. Then we see the material universes. We have our material bodies. So we are, according to the Bible the Old Testament, the image we are made, to the image and according to the likeness of the Infinity.
Now, what are we as human beings? You have just to analyze that also. As human beings, we are, in the order of creation… we have been created…. as everything else around us is created, everything, even the planets and satellites. Everything. I said, to exist, we are in the world of existence now as human beings. Did we leave the world of Beingness? No. Because the worlds of existence are definitions of a place in space in the Be-ness or in the Beingness. We have not been separated, as
Spirit-Ego Beings, we have not been separated. As Life itself, as the everlasting life.
But now we are the reflection of our real self, the life we are living now. Living beings. So we must understand the difference now between Life and Living.
So. According to the Bible. And God the Infinite Be-ness and the Logos the manifestation said… To whom? To the Holy Archangels, the Lords of the Elements, after they have created the Worlds of Existence in the first day and the second day and the third day… then in the sixth
20’00”
day of creation, the Lord said… In which language? Of course in no language, in vibrations… that in vibrating the Will-pleasure in manifestation, having in it the human being in the Total Wisdom and the Holy Archangels in it, the Absolute Infinite Beingness covibrate expressing the will of the Father as their own will. Creating, and so. “Let us create man”. Human being. In our image and according to our likeness. Not different. To become the microcosm exactly similar to us as the macrocosm. And so, a human being is created. A human being is creating… not this is a point that is much, much, much thought. What is that that, that great that, which is reflected now to created the human being? Of course, said, as far as you know human beings are Ego-Spirit being vibrates as it’s own vibrations and it’s own Will to the vibrations of the Absolute Infinite Be-ness and the Absolute Infinite Beingness to express the human form? Where from do we get our human form? Why did we not get another, an Archangelic form? Or any other form? Because that is our nature. The human form is not imposed in us, we are that in the Absolute Infinite Be-ness and the Absolute Infinite Beingness. So we were always in the human form, in the everlasting inextinguishable Spirit - let us call it ‘body’, which is our real nature. So nobody will lose its human nature by being a Spirit Ego god. So it was with our own Will that we have been humanized and materialized - incarnated.
Now, something you cannot find in books, and I am telling you of something of my own experiences and knowledge. Our material body is built in the mould, we call it our etheric double. This etheric double is perfect. It is the perfect expression of our Spirit Ego bodies. As the
mould and the storehouse of the Mind in all its forms, so which the Holy Archangels are creating, are building up, and sustaining our material bodies. By introspection and knowing, studying the material body we will be wondering at this marvelous and splendid work of the Holy Archangels of the elements in building a material body, in and through the etheric double having in it the Total Wisdom and the Almightiness as far as it concerns the human being. So our etheric double is a reflection… it is the reflection, but it is also part of it… of our Spirit Ego eternal everlasting form.
25’00”
Human form. Can never be mutilated. Maybe an accident will happen and our material body will be injured - a leg took off or and operation to, a part to be amputated - but not on the etheric double. The etheric double is intact, always. Intact in what? In form. Now some mystics say that after the material body dies, the etheric double is dissolved. No. And Blavaski and all those made a great mistake. The etheric double is discharging its energy, withdrawing in its own self the human form in our Spirit-Ego body. It is withdrawn. It is not dissolved. So, it is charged with only what we call etheric vitality and energy, which is gathered by many, many ways. By the Logos, the Holy Spirit and the Archangels just to serve, to the Holy Archangels in building up the material body.
So therefore, and the force and the power in the etheric double remains, withdrawing in its own nature to our Spirit-Ego form, to our human form. This far we know about the etheric double. What about the psychical body now? Again, these things you’ll not find them in books, because those few who may know it, do not reveal it. We will.
Said that our psychical body now has exactly the form of our Spirit - Ego body, which is the etheric double, manifested. And through it, with it, the Holy Archangels are building our psychical body. Which psychical body? Now again I speak on my own experiences. We have the archetype of our so-called psychical body - which is in the Total Wisdom of the Infinite Beingness - and which is held by our Guardian Archangel. Luminous, brilliant psychical body. But, we are given a mass of psychical matter - MIND again as psychical matter - the reflection of our Soul - to be humanized, ‘Let us make Man’.
To become a man, have to work it, in many many many incarnations, until it
will make it, by working it, similar to the Archetypes in us, of course. Kept by the Holy Archangels, our Guardian Archangel. So now we have a perfect psychical body in the egoifed Archangel - our Guardian Archangel - and we are given a mass of psychical matter… come work with it now.
It is the same thing - you give mud and clay to a fellow, seeing a nice statue say, “now, make one like that.” Until you get the skill to make a perfect statue, that’s why all people are different one from the other, because the different in their psychical body. So on the psychical body, we have to work, and not the Holy Archangels. That means in our personality
30’00”
we have to work.
The Holy Archangels remain neutral. They only work on that splendid Archetypes. The same thing happens with our noetical body. Perfect, splendid. Just in the Holy Archangel - our Guardian Archangel - but we are given just the authority to use now, the MIND, to work on it to create our own noetical body. So that we’ll make it so perfect, pure, and clean… to transmute it into the Archetypes - it is the Archetypes we call it. That’s why two persons are not on the same level in thinking, reasoning. So we have, now, our splendid Divine nature, in our Holy Archangel egofied to us, and exercising a constant influence on us… how to work… with that MIND substance, psychical substance and the MIND noetical substance just to form and make our own now psychical and noetical bodies.
How we’ll make them? Having in us our Divine nature, we have in us the ability of doing it. That means we have in us, and in the personality our Soul-Ego self. Having our Soul-Ego self, we project what we call the permanent personality, so that every time we are incarnated, creating a separate personality, to make it more perfect to cooincide with the Permanent Personality and with the Soul of course.
So a human being has to work for it deification. So, are we going to become something that we are not now? As Soul-Ego Spirit beings, no, we are gods. But as human beings? A time and space place personality - we are not. And, we have to work on it to disentangle that personality from the influences only of the outside world entering in our nature in the
Kingdom of Heavens which is in us, so that we will transmute this personality to our Soul-Ego self. This is what Joshua Immanuel the Christ said “the perishable will become imperishable and the mortal will become immortal.” Because in nature it is immortal. But in expression, it isn’t. Because our present day personality is changing every moment. Our material bodies changing every moment, and our psychical and noetical bodies are changing every moment.
And when, when it will not be changed and purified? Christ gave a parable, Joshua Immanuel. A woman, he said, got 3 measures of flour. She mixed them up in such a way that a few of them became leavened - is that the word? Which is what it means… Which is that woman? The personality. Changes thinking 3 measures of flour - material body - psychical - and the noetical. Matter, substance, supersubstance of the MIND… the 3 measures of flour. Mixing them,
35’00”
working with them, until 3 of them became leavened. That’s what Joshua Immanuel the Christ meant. So that woman, or our present day personality has to do the work to transmute herself and the 3 bodies into the Divine nature, which is our Spiritual body form. Which is intact there, but you have to get back to our real nature. Joshua Immanuel the Christ gave us also the parable of the lost Son. Everything is state properly, but it remains for us to understand what he was saying. So.
Now, we know we have - I would rather prefer to say ‘we are’ - our etheric double. Because in it is our real nature, our human form, the mould in which the Holy Archangels will build up our material bodies. The material bodies, as Joshua Immanuel the Christ says, is the Temple of God. Of our self, our ego self being. To live in it.
And we have now, given the MIND as psychical substance, the MIND as noetical substance to work with it and make our own time and place self - perfect, pure, to coincide with our real nature, our Ego-Spirit self. Somebody will say ‘but what for? why? Have been allowed, just to cast a shadow of our Divine nature, being gods, too great.’ A human being, ourselves, enter in it, consider this human being as ourselves. It is ourselves and it isn’t. It’s both. Why?
God. Again he gave the parable of the talents. He gave it so that we, given us Spirit-Ego beings gain experience of the worlds and in the worlds of existence. I’ll give you an example, a very poor example of my own because I’m very awkward in giving examples myself - never mind. Suppose you are good architect. You know everything you have to have at the university, you can sit on your desk and make what we call the plans or the blue prints. You know everything. You can just sit and even being expressed in visualization what you have put on the paper, just live in it… see it… the rooms… everything, corridors and everything. You are an expert now. Architect. That’s different from coming down… get the mud and the clay, the iron, water and everything and order the servants - ‘come let us build it then’ - see it now, materially.
That’s another pleasure. It’s not enough just knowing, it is living in it. Why? It’s the Will-pleasure of manifestation. We cannot understand more and really, myself, I don’t understand it. I am sizitian. But so it is. So it is. So, the Absolute Infinite Beingness, in its Divine plan, giving to the begins, everlasting eternal beings, in itself,
40’00”
one of the beings is ourselves, our Spirit-Ego selves. And also the Holy Archangels. Expressing the Will-pleasure in creation, in manifestation. Building universes, living forms, phenomena of life around us. Why? They know why. They are also building our bodies. To live in it. According to the Divine plan. I can repeat nobody can understand why, and what is this Divine plan. Except that to gain experience, to become masters over matter, masters of mind substance, even the masters of the noetical mind supersubstance. There is no other just purpose in it. Besides our life, our whole life is that. Living in a material body prepared for us by the Holy Archangels, to live in it, not by right, by mercy. Because why it has been given to us, we know so little about our material bodies, they are caring about it, who develop in it a kind of personality, time and place personality. Given the mind as substance, and as supersubstance as emotion as thought, to work with it, to gain experience. Again I say, Joshua Immanuel the Christ gave the parable of the talents… there is a purpose in it… to work, to make them more.
It has been given to us the material body, the etheric double, the psychical so-called body, the noetical body, to develop them. How? I will come to
the main point. How?
The material body. We are using it. Or I rather say, we are making very bad use of it. Others care about it. Others built it. Others keep it in good order. Now we, as present day personality, are expressing emotions, desires, feelings, we have to study them. To check them, to control them, to change them. Living subconsciously, we have to live consciously. That means by studying and knowing the nature of our desires, of our feelings, studying our weakness, entering in our so-called subconsciousness. We have to work in it. Understand what is a desire, what is an emotion, what is a feeling. Check it, control it, change it. Definitely the feelings are not ourselves, though we think we are the feelings - this is the great mistake. They are not our feelings ourself, we can see them. We can replace them. We have to make use now of the thought. To raise our so-called waking consciousness to a more - how call it conscious consciousness? Superconsciousness, but now, self-consciousness. Checked our thoughts compare the thoughts with the emotions.
Don’t think it’s an easy work to do, it’s difficult because all the time that devil we call the personal egotism will interfere… ‘well I’m satisfied with that! I like this emotions, I like this way of thinking.’ Then you find you are not the egoism of the personality. This is the most precious lesson you get. “I am not the egoism of my personality”. I am strong.
45’00”
I am the willpower of my real self. While my personalities egoism which i make the mistake to think its mine, its rather expressed as a kind of unreasonable obstinacy. And not right thinking. So we have right now the right thinking and the way we were thinking, the way we were thinking as egoistic persons was leading us into many many troubles, pain, despair. It formulates our way of living, the way we are living, while we are The Life, and the way of living. We were living. I am living. Living as everybody else. That’s my nature. Now how is my way of living as a personality? All of us live the same. But not all of us are living in the same way of living. Which is our emotions, our weaknesses, our thought, our intentions. You have to check that. Now here’s the point. Checking all that you find that you are not all that, because you can control them, you change them, you are not the psychical body as you are not the material
body, and you not also the noetical body because you are master of the MIND as thought, after experiencing and checking the emotions and everything.
This leaves you to a very precious conclusion: The MIND or geist is not the Holy Spirit. The MIND or geist is not me. Its the means I am using to express myself in a certain way. What you find more that I…. (end of recording)
Fragment of a lecture by Daskalos:
Now, I have a question (Olivia put me that question). Why don't I speak anything about the Lord of the Earth? When they say "earth" they mean (of course) - matter. Because matter is not only the planet, the Earth. Matter is the Moon, are the stars, the galaxies everywhere (and we say that matter is Solid Mind - that means Mind vibrating in the lowest frequencies). Our material Earth doesn't have an Archangel to the degree of the other Archangels, but, it has a kind of an Archangel which is called Shamael. Sham-ael in the old Egyptian language means Lucifer. I am telling you, Lucifer is not the Devil! He is an Archangel. So, the order of the Lucifers, the Carriers of the Light, are Archangels. But, Shamael is an expression of the Lucifers, and that expression is not as full as the expression of Michaels, Gabriels and Raphaels we are speaking about. So, contacting Shamael we see that Shamael is and is not an Archangel. Because, he is divided to certain intelligences out of which some are considered as evil (by men) and some are considered as good, while all the manifestations and expressions of the Michaels, Gabriels and Raphaels are Holy.
I say and I repeat he is not evil or good. He is antagonistic. That's why we don't mention him too much.
Now, evil and good. What is evil and what is good? We judge it from our own human interests. So, we are in the world of bitterest illusion. Why? From the point of view of a human being a beast, a monster comes in our house, many times bigger then us, and kills our children eating them. What will you call that being? A devil? Yes. For us that entity is a devil. What are we doing to our brothers, the animals, all around us? Is it not killing them to eat them? So, who is a devil now for the animal kingdom? Is it not the human being? Yet: "We are good, very good. Very good human beings." So, what is good and what is evil is according to the human interest. And, we should be just sincere with ourselves.
We shall not speak much about Shamael who, many times, is hostile to us.
Why? Because we are hostile to nature. That's what I said, we are sometimes antagonistic and Shamael is antagonistic to us. While really, a Seeker of the Truth, approaching Shamael, will approach him as a friend and a loving brother. But, I am telling you, because he is antagonistic, human beings do not consider Shamael an Angel, Archangel as Michael, Gabriel and Raphael. Why? Because, Shamael is giving to us the material body, the bones, without doing anything, while all the other classes of Archangels are working with the material, with the stuff Shamael is providing - which means matter.
So, I have the Lord of Heat, Light (warmth) Michael working with the substance giving warmth to the gross material body. Then, I have the Lord of the Liquids, Gabriel - working, cooperating with Michael. And, I have also, Raphael - working, giving the magnetism, the Energy, the Etheric Vitality in the body. While these three Archangels are doing their work (as their nature and the Pleasure of the Infinite Beingness - they are always good) they are not antagonistic. Why? Because in building (in the material body) they don't care if that personality of a man is considered good or bad. We inflict a wound, deep wound on the leg of a fellow. That fellow may be a saint or he might be a criminal. The Michaels, the Gabriels and the Raphaels are doing their work. They don't care if the personality living in that body is a criminal or a saint. The wound will be cured! Will close up. It won't stay. So, they don't criticize. They simply work creatively. Shamael is antagonistic. He has a kind of instinctive consciousness, which is antagonistic to the personality of a man. More I cannot say about it, because - no need to say.
Yet, we are antagonistic too, since Shamael is the cause of all the human illnesses if a person is counteracting the Laws of what I call the Etheric Vitality. While other Archangels are building, building and building (creatively), Shamael is presenting illnesses to the material body. That's why I will not speak much about it.
Shamael is antagonistic to a man contacting him if he is not in that state of considered being very, very good, of killing the egoism. When does he work creatively for a man who approaches him? When that man has killed completely his egoism that means - antagonism in each self as a personality to be affected by the Law of Shamael. Then, the Archangels will give him the authority of materialization. He can be the master of materialization. That means - ordering Shamael. Contacting Shamael. Of course, we are not going to create black or brown magicians, or anything like that. The less we say about coming in contact with Shamael, the better. When one, a Seeker of the Truth, reaches higher levels of consciousness,
Shamael will come and offer him the authority. So - then, and only then, one can be master of materialization and dematerialization, and, even, of transmuting matter from one state to the other. Because, the Lord of the Matter (of what you call matter) is Shamael. More about that - we cannot say.