So, by observation, introspection, reasoning, checking our behavior, studying now and knowing the nature of the emotions - and the thoughts as slaves of the emotions - we can find out which is our real self, real personality. And which is that part of it we call it egoism which we have to silence down or annihilate. What we find out by silencing down this egoism, annihilating egoism, we are not losing anything. George is George and Mary is Mary. We are simply casting out what’s considered to be a torturing evil attitude. It is disenergizing certain elementals, to send them in the cosmic consciousness. This is the main task of the seeker of the truth, man or a woman. Searching, by observation, meditation, being sincere with himself, to see the changes. Studying the nature of wishes, emotions, desires and all these things - make corrections.
Someone will say, yes, but how can we find egoism? That’s very easy. When you start this work and reach certain decision - you - as Ego self, the real self, the egoism will present itself reasoning you “you are then egoism”. You disentangle yourself and you catch it… for example, every day, near relations in the family, in the community, everywhere… something happens. A fellow may come and provoke you. This is something very common. You are carrying with you… and your selfhood, and your egoism as your selfhood. So in this state of things maybe you hear words that had better not be spoken by the other fellow. Maybe some insults, or as you consider an ill behavior member of your family or in the community. Then, you forget yourself. You got certain decisions, to keep calm, and study these things. Studying everything. But then you revolt and start fighting with that person. Later when you are alone, maybe you’ll repent it, because you find out yourself, and put yourself the question that I’m… “why did I behave in that way?” Why did I say these things in these words? Here is the time you should not lose, because your egoism will really come forward, not being suspicious of what you are doing. “Yes, but of course, you had to! He said that and that and that… and of course you were right to do that!” It’s that time to catch him… come now.
Cunning one! Now I catch you… I know you. So after being sincere with
yourself, and studying things and your behavior, it’s not difficult to catch your egoism and say, “no, that’s not me.” And start now, knowing the nature of that part of your personality which is your personal egoism, and you’ll find out that this is the cause of what? Of all troubles. Misery, fighting.
05’00”
Divorces. Leading human beings to despair. To trouble. Giving pain not only to you, but to all in your family, maybe in your community - to all those connected with you. So by sincere study, you find the cause. And by studying of course, your real nature, you’ll come to the conclusion that all of us, male or female, living now, are under the same conditions - slaves of a devil called human personal egoism.
We have to get rid of, and start now, not living our life day and night with what comes in our way, obeying to a personal egoism, but shaping our life now, to live it with principles, and laws, and virtues, and the will of God. You’ll reach the conclusion that the burdens of all human beings as vices, sins, are yours also.
Free yourself from them, and you’ll free the others from their own sins also. That’s what Joshua the Christ has done. He has shouldered the vices of humanity, has carried the cross of humanity. But to reach that conclusion, you must admit by studying and introspection, that every one of us human beings is an offspring of God just like you. And you have to love him. And nobody can claim loving God if he doesn’t love the other human beings around him. And what was the instruction of Joshua Immanuel the Christ? “Love your fellow men as you love yourself - not less - because they are yourself.”
So sooner or later, we shall enter into the common selfhood - in the Logoic selfhood. And in that, we’ll definitely find that each one of us is everybody around us. As long as we have our attention on the tips of our fingers, we are feeling separate, one from the other. But when we enter in the pound we find that we are all. So to reach this conclusion of what I call the common logoic selfhood, we have just to work hard. What will be the gain out of it? You find who you are. What you are. You are becoming the master of MIND matter, you become the master of your MIND. Emotions? You know what they are. You can change them. Reshape them. You can
become now the master of your MIND, reasonable thought not allowing it to become slave of the emotions, you are becoming the master of life, of your destiny.
Then you value life. You know what is life. As a manifestation of the Absolute Infinite Life, in the worlds of existence - in the worlds unfortunately of separateness. That’s what we have to find out. That the world of separateness is an illusion. What is not an illusion and is the real reality is the world of the Absolute Infinite Beingness’s selfhood, which is God.
10’00”
We’ll find our place in God. We’ll find the Kingdom of the Heavens in us. In us. Not only as our Spirit-Soul Being, but even in us as the purified present day personality. Because even the present day personality is god, and when Joshua Immanuel the Christ was addressing even the Pharisees and the people not addressing their Spirit-Soul-Selves - addressing the Human beings - that all of you are gods, sons of the Almighty. But reach to this realization, to find this great truth.
Now something else I have to say. I am really very glad seeing the great, great, great work worldwide we have accomplished, with the Grace of God. In this our work as seekers, researchers of the truth, from this point of view I feel greatly pleased, but terribly tired. Because after all I’m a human being. And I am well advanced in age… never mind that. All through this past year, I was facing always the same mistake, by leaders, by members of our most beloved circles worldwide. Some of these people thought that approaching me and engaging ourselves in lazy talk. I was giving them attention. That’s a great mistake. My love is for every one of you. Brothers and sisters.
I am not giving more love to anyone that I give to others, and that is to say I give much, much love, much more than you can think I am giving you. So the worst mistake of a human being - not only of a brother or sister - is the feeling that he is not observed, or given more attention. This gives me great, great grief. You are wrong. I love you all the same, and each one of you is thinking of your brother “he is receiving tenfold, his love”. It is just to realize that only. Each one of you - even the leaders - must have in your mind that all through these years, presenting certain questions, I was repeating the same and the same and the same things hundreds of times.
Nothing more tiresome to me. Now I have to say that most, or nearly all of your questions, can be answered by the teaching I have given until now in books, in tapes, in any private talking, in instructions given, and in the lessons I continue giving.
So, studying the teaching, theoretical lessons, I have given much, much, much more than what you think. You have just to study and reach your conclusions. You can use the MIND, the greatest gift of God to man, as I am using it. I can claim and say that I am thinking better than you think, if you try to think,
15’00”
So you have to think for yourselves. Then you will be benefitted. So use your mind just to reach your conclusions. Now the principles and our study is already given and will be given and repeated in the future, and you can find it, I repeat, in books, in tapes, in the past lessons I have given. So, please just engage yourself just a little bit with that. What you need is not so much theory, because you have too much theory until now. What you are in need of, not only you, I speak now to all the hundreds of thousands of brothers and sisters: All you need is to practice. To make as parts of your life the teaching, and to engage yourself seriously, daily, with the right meditation, learn the concentration, observation, and the introspection. These are the golden keys which open the gate to the Kingdom of the Heavens within you. You have to work. You have to use your own powers. All others, books, brother Iskaractos, are showing the way. And help you, but you have to toil yourself, to find the truth, and to know the truth considering life. So, you have to work.
Now, something I have seen to many brothers and sisters all over the world. All of you, men or women, male or female, are found now in a society, in such a place, that destiny had placed you to learn your next lessons. Nothing is chance. We are all under the Absolute Infinite Intelligence. So, for a brother or sister, I claim to cast away from them the dis-satisfaction. Is an insult to God. So you should be satisfied, with what you have now. Never mind in what you have, there is something to give you pleasure. Of course I don’t mean that of course, you should not think having changes for the better in your life. No, I don’t mean that.
But ask God to allow it to you, use the MIND soberly, and these changes
will come to you for the better. But just now complaining and trying to kick away your present day circumstances just to start this kind of esoteric life and work - is unwise. So accept the present conditions, ask the father to give you the means of changing it for the better, and even so you have much, much time to engage yourself even with the esoteric teaching. Now being sincere with yourself and seeing your life, your everyday life, you must reach to the conclusion that you are wasting many, many, many hours which you could use in a better way. Wasting many hours in gossiping, paying attention here and there. So you have to stick now to your duties.
20’00”
In your family, in your profession, in your work, using the MIND for better changes in your life, and some of the hours… lazy hours…. you can use them as a pleasure and study. Any moment in your life - everyday life - must be a moment of observation. Anything in your life - your family life, in your profession - can give you the means of using the MIND in a reasonable way. So there are not certain circumstances more favorable than the other… or rather I say, under certain circumstances, you can use the MIND much, much better. And reach better conclusions, so what I suggest is use the MIND as reasoning at all times. You have plenty of time, and for meditation, observation, concentration and introspection.
Now, mediation. I don’t know what over systems of this are suggesting, wasting of the time, without any good result. You don’t need to meditate more than quarter of an hour every day. That is enough. But in that quarter of an hour, do meditate, concentrate, and just do the work. I had some people following certain branches of yoga saying ‘oh I was meditating for so many hours and this and that’. And succeeded in what. Breaking their nervous system. And at the end, giving up everything. This is the result of many hours of this kind of study. So. Quarter of an hour, serious studying the esoteric teaching, and all through the day using the MIND as observation and right thinking is good for the advancement of every brother or sister.
Introspection. During the night, just making that exercise I’ve given many times of introspection, it would take you not more than 10 minutes, 15 minutes the maximum. And sleep will come to you. In bringing, in your mind, an event of the day, and start as a 3rd person now, seeing the whole
scene, and studying it. Study the circumstances. And then what you’ll find out that maybe you said things you shouldn’t say, and now you find out that it would be better if you didn’t say these things. So, having now as a motto, “What did I say that I shouldn’t have said?”, and “What I didn’t say that I could say?” - and explanation maybe, “What I did which I should not have done?” - and now I repent, and “what I did not do which I should have done?” - maybe instead of giving a slap, give and kind smile and a caress to a child. A good word.
So having this, before you, and studying the circumstances and even which has passed away, you reach your conclusions as the real self - I say it - the egoism will present itself. Catch it. No! I decide. Not you. So being sincere with yourself - that’s what I mean sincerity with yourself, you can eliminate it slowly, slowly
25’00”
until you annihilate it completely, that egoism of the present day personality. That means disenergizing certain elementals, sending them to the cosmic consciousness. Getting yourself free from them. These are the main things and duties of every brother and sister in our great family of the seekers of the truth.
Now giving all these advices if you close your eyes in the time you are meditating and bring before you these teachings - not necessarily my face or my person - intelligences attending you will help you. I assure you about that. You are surrounded by great intelligences ready to help you if you are sincere with yourself and want to help yourselves. Our great family of the seekers of the truth, I assure you is well attended by great intelligences. Rely for their love for you and their attention to you.
Yes. We’ll make a meditation now, which Joshua Immanuel the Christ, our Lord was giving to his seventy disciples, training them before sending them to the world to work as healers and teachers in the Essene synagog, in the Essene brotherhood.
First of all relax completely. Feel you are in your human bodies listening.
Joshua Immanuel the Christ attuning himself as a human being completely, at perfect at-one-ment, with his Divine self the Logos, spread his hands
saying:
“Listen to me - all of you - offsprings of mine. I am in you, God in you, God your real self. And you are in me always, as gods. And I am also with you, as human beings, as a loving Father. Every breath you take, prolonging the life of your material body, is a Fatherly kiss of mine to you. My beloved ones.
I will not talk to you in words, in any language, but in actions, in my expression, as the heat keeping your bodies alive. I am in you, as the breeze, the fresh air caressing your faces. As your sight
30’00”
I’m in your eyes, making you enjoy all my works all around you. As phenomenon of life, I am residing in you. I am all the time creating the MIND matter for you to keep your material body living. I am the living breath of life. I am the living water in you, which you will drink and never get thirsty. I am the vitality everywhere in the world. You are in my omnipresence without knowing it. I am the voice in your minds when you are doing something which is not right. Not rebuking you, but waking you up. I am love in your heart.
Cast away from your heart every evil emotions: enmity, cruelty. I am the life in you. Enjoy this life, you are my offsprings. Myself. I love you.
Love all my expressions. Love all other human beings around you, as your own self.
Now put this question to yourself: What am I? Now, as a self conscious being, living in this material body of mine, the Logos and the Holy Spirit had built up for me to live in, and they and the Holy Archangels, and we think they are working in it to keep it in good health, for me to live in it. I am a living being. The absolute infinite life beingness of reality, in God. And so are all my brothers and sisters, human beings, breathing and living, enjoying life. Enjoying the great gifts of our Heavenly Father, of God.
Give us this day our daily bread means make us realize this heavenly bread, which is the MIND.
Who am I, living in this material body? Am I a material body - a material body changing all the time. Am I my emotions?
35’00”
My desires? My intentions? No.
Am I my thoughts, which are changing according to circumstances. No. What am I? What am I as a self-conscious being? Apart from a human being, simply being. What am I as a self, as life? These are synonymous.
Tomorrow, we’ll continue the lesson on meditation, concentration, introspection, and more work. Of course the lesson I gave today is not a lecture. It’s not a public lecture, it’s a lesson to my great, most beloved family. For my brothers and sisters in our system for the research of truth.
(end of tape)