1992.06.29 Daskalos Stoa Lesson Transcript. transcription by rhr (amended mr)
00’00”
… Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us, and lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and power, and the glory, forever. Absolute Infinite Beingness, God, everlasting life, love and mercy, manifesting yourself in yourself and your total wisdom and your almightiness, enlighten our minds to understand you are the truth, clean our hearts to reflect your love toward you, and toward all other human beings. Amen.
01”27”
Day is going, another day is coming, and so weeks, months, and years are going. And we are living. Why? What for? We are living. We are living in a human body, the material body, for which the Holy Archangels of the elements, the Mind elements, are laboring and are working unceasingly to keep it in good health. Why? For us. For whom, why? Why, is that work just in vain, for no purpose, there is not an aim behind it.
Now, we are living. Just in a community, a family, in a nation, as human beings, each one, his or her own life. You will ask all these persons, living in our place, in our country, in our community, in our nation if they are satisfied. What do you think they will reply to you? That they are satisfied? No. At least most of them will say, “No.” Now, so many troubles, so many things torturing us, then you have the right to ask them and say, “Why? Why you have so many things torturing you, and making you suffer, and who is responsible for that?”
They should put the question to themselves, as we should put this question to ourselves. But people are avoiding to put this question to themselves. They find faults all the time on the others, never on themselves. They are never wrong. All around them are wrong, all around them are behaving in a bad way, except themselves.
Now, a seeker of the truth and in reality every human being, should start thinking, using his mind. What is life? Who am I? What is going on around me?
05’00”
Start using the mind to study, so he will study so that he will know at least the relative truth behind the phenomena. Can he do that? Of course he can. But, he doesn’t do it. Why? Because he thinks he has more important things to do. Torturing himself with troubles, with worries, with a kind of living who is not giving satisfaction. What one should do or should be taught to do? Soon, he starts thinking, I mean, being an adult, a man or a woman, he should be taught to use his or her mind. The right thinking. Not just expecting to find things as they are from the family, from the past, from the society, and just go on doing the same mistakes, doing the same
stupid life, leading to worries, pain, suffering. Leading to overgrowing a stupid personal egoism.
By obeying blindly, desires and emotions, without studying what they are, and the why. Should we just follow all that? What for? So everybody is becoming a slave of the circumstances others have created, and of his unwillingness to use the mind to think. Think what? Who is he or she as a person in that society. What he or she is expecting from life. There is another way now, not of course following the examples of all those around him or her in the family or in the community, since they will see that they are not happy. That they are suffering. He or she should be taught what is a desire, how a desire is created. How that desire is dominating over us, enslaving us. What this desire, if fulfilled, or not fulfilled, is offering us, can offer us? He must be taught what is desire.
Now of course these are things that he should start working on. But before, he should just start thinking. What do I expect from life? What life can offer me? And what is life expecting from me? Because life, or God, is expecting something from us. He didn’t send us just to live without any purpose. Just think, so many Archangels of the mind elements, the Gabriels, the Raphaels, Michaels, Uriels, and all that working in a material body just to keep it in good health. To study, what work! Is the need to keep all those organs in the body not only alive, but all the time fit to serve us. Then put the question, why? What for? All this toil and trouble from the Holy Archangels.
10’00”
You are living in a material body, I’m telling you, not by right, by grace of God. Because we don’t deserve it, at least most of us do not deserve living in this body, which has been created and sustained by the Holy Archangels. But it’s only that should wake us up to think soberly. Because, yes, life, needs from us something. We should not only claim, claim and claim and claim to have from life.
So, another. The [man and] woman should be just be taught to put things down and ask themselves, what do I expect from life? And what I should expect from life? They are two different things. Maybe contaminated by the circumstances, by the parents, by the society, by the family, by the community, will go on the same stupid ways and not what do I want from
life, but what I should like having from life.
So, here comes the conclusion. Seeing around the family you may see sick persons. The family or the environment. Some are sick, or a healthy body. He or she is entitled to it. And this is very very natural. What is unnatural is the illness, and not the good health. Then, start thinking, how can I have this good health, in my body, and avoid getting illnesses? By using the mind, one should know how to do it. Second, what must I expect from life, because now, the circumstances count. The family, financials, conditions, the community’s financial conditions, what the community can offer. And now we say, “according to what I have before me,” He can have changes for the better living in other places.
That’s all right, he must think about it. If not, what the present circumstances are offering me, because I am in those circumstances to learn my lessons. Why should he or she be born in that family, in that community, in that place, in that nation? Because, for everything there is reason behind it. Nothing is by chance. So now, finding himself or herself, in certain circumstances, he or she should see, what according to the present circumstances, I must do to qualify myself to live a satisfactory life to me and to the others. I mean, the right education. Then see if he or she has the means for that. Now, in the present time, everybody has a chance to educate himself or herself, in any place of the world.
Now, apart from that, what is life offering me? And what do I expect from life? Become rich? Very very very rich? Why? Become that or that or that or that.
15’00”
So, one should put things in the balance, all the time, and use reason. ‘I have these desires, having that and that and that, should I have them? Why? Do I need them? Why? Because the others have it, and I should have it.’ So one should just study what is this impulse of possessiveness? And what can that give a man? Now is that necessity or greediness? One of the two or maybe both. And start thinking then he wants something else. In this life, we have things pleasing, satisfying, giving us more or even more and more satisfaction. And there are things and conditions, giving the contrarily, dissatisfaction, more pain, sorrow, agony. This is the point one should engage himself or herself with. In this life I must have something
better, from the one side or from the other side. Of course, all the time, you will have [failure] from the other side or the [same?] side. And you must find out that.
Pleasing things, satisfaction of desires, maybe satisfaction of certain emotions are giving us some pleasure. You must study this kind of pleasure. Is this pleasure or satisfaction lasting? And if not, why it is not? [Just, going wrong. It’s [ascendent?] to it.] Then from the other side, something giving us pain, trouble, dissatisfaction, can we avoid it? It will go on like that, what will be the end of it? Clashes, sorrows, enmities.
Sometimes you’ll observe something else within us. Obstinance, a ‘devilish why’ now? Why that and that and that and why should I not do that or that and that? Here is needed the reason. Is it towards, what? Just prolonging this evil way of living, all these things do happen every day in our life in all the communities in all the places everywhere. You’ll see it clearly. People are finding themselves in such states of living.
So, how do we come out of it? Here is the main point. By using the mind. And I said in a lesson, “a man is using all the members of his body, feet, hands, and everything, except his mind.” He is expecting others to think for him or for her, and that’s wrong. That’s the reason for every pain and misery coming to any human being. So what should schools and parents, what they should teach, the young boys and girls? Mathematics?
20’00”
Yes, why not. To forget them after a little, when they leave the school. Geography? That’s good, just to know something about the planet and the people living there. And they tend to forget it after they leave school. And Geometry? They are good things to be taught. History? This is very dangerous. Wars, hatred and all that, they should stay away from this one. Which means, at least three fourths of what is taught in the schools is not only unnecessary, but dangerous. What a man should be taught?
What’s life? Who and what he is or she is? Take psychology, parapsychology and all that, yes, yes, from the school but unfortunately this science is in it’s infancy yet! All sciences have advanced except this parapsychology and psychology. Because in psychology and parapsychology, I mean using the mind observation and the actions and
reactions of a personality. You have now psychiatrists, they claim that they are psychiatrists, after all I have many in ours, in our circles, calling themselves psychiatrists, having just a diploma to hang on the wall. And doing, nothing. They are failing completely unless they know what they should do.
So, what a man or woman should learn? First to be a good psychologist. He or she can become one by using the mind, in just arranging his or her relations with the other human beings. He should know how the others are behaving and why they are behaving, and in which way he or she has to behave to balance things.
So. A man, a man or a woman, have to use how to use their mind, thinking. Now, we start studying and we see that until the present moment, most people you are [esellating?] the mind as thought in serving the desires, they term this as well unbridled and stupid. And emotions, most of the time egoistic behavior. This is wrong. Now, he or she should decide to free the mind from being a slave of desires and emotions he or she [deems?] for herself. Start using the mind, studying the emotions and the desires, and decide if they are to be satisfied. And now, the master of thought, he or she should know how to use the mind to satisfy those desires, because I don’t mean that all desires are evil or useless. If that was so, why God allowed all that to come in.
So, one should first learn how to use the mind as master of everything, and not slave of desires or of emotions. And more so, one who studies his or her emotions. Now a good psychoanalyst can know much, hearing people
25’00”
talking about their sufferings and the things that are happening, then what one finds out. That, the emotions all those people, men or women were calling ‘love’, is on egoistic foundations. And that was not ‘love’ at all. Because ‘love’ for those people meant the slavery of the other one, man or a woman, to our egoism, to our personality, to obey us, to flatter us, and if that was not so, the contrary would happen, despising us and even enmity, cruelty.
Now [I should address] things soberly. I feel, I have this feeling. What is the quality of this feeling? To satisfy what? To me it is, but “what for?”
To enslave, a living being, male or female, to my desires, just to my hands [to behave?], to have that fellow the way I like. But every human being has his or her own will. And sooner or later will not stand this behavior from the other party. What we see day and night all around us in the society, people claiming that they really love each other, from the [opposite sex]. At the beginning, married, or living without being married, who start fighting, quarreling, separating, and if they are married, to end with divorces. Living victims.
I said before, we want much from life, but life wants enough or so from us, because if you give life to children, you cannot sacrifice them on the alter of a satanic egoism. That’s stupidity. Make young [souls?] unhappy. And giving them very, very bad lessons! Just to continue like that, their life.
So, who is responsible for all this misery which is now in the world in all the communities and all the countries? Yes, we said that, the personal egoism. The egoism of the personality. And, because people do not know, or they do not want to use their mind. Use their mind, then, how? Just to check that monster in them called egoism.
So the most important lesson is for one to keep [(on their left, criticizing) analyzing?] his personality’s behavior, finding behind it that monster called egoism, the cause of all misery, the cause of all crimes committed. Now one will say “but is there anything to do?” The easiest thing to do is you decide to look [(better) deeper?] and see that this egoism of yours is not really yourself. But as long as you think the egoism of your personality is yourself, it’s very difficult. I’m telling you that egoism is very, very cunning
30’00”
to masquerade itself as being yourself. So it needs much thinking. The will of making what we call self-analysis, and you find out the reality. And here is the greatest gain you have. Which is, “no no no, I am not what I thought I was. Just and not the [name] egoism of a personality, but I am the one who can think, decide and master things.” And I think this is a great gain. So, using the mind soberly, we can study and find the relative truth concerning circumstances and things in our life.
These are the means how we can save ourselves from troubles, misery and illness. Illness, because I’m telling you all kinds of illnesses coming to
a human body are coming from the psychical body. They are psychosomatic. They appear first of all in the psychical plane, and then they appear on the physical body.
All hatred, complaints, bad health behavior, obstinacy, are poisons in the material body. And these things are giving a kind of self-punishment, self-punishment. There is not any punishing God or punishing Archangel. The Archangels are unceasingly working in our bodies just to limit all these illnesses, to close wounds, to join bones. We are poisoning our bodies and our self with the way we are living, we are thinking, we are behaving. So one should know that.
The so called weaknesses, jealousies, enmities, hatreds and all that have in them, already the punishment. And that should be careful about that. Now, using the mind, studying things and circumstances all around us, we can know certain laws governing life. We can study laws governing the physical nature and everything physical around the material plane. And we find out that nature is governed by laws which cannot be changed? The law of gravity, the law of cohesion, so many things. All the worlds and all the universes are governed by laws in the psychical universe. And as our material body, should obey and it is under those physical laws of the physical world, so is our psychical body under the laws of the psychical world. There are laws also in the noetical plane, the world of thoughts. So there are laws in the worlds of emotions, desires and of thoughts.
And as long as we use them to build up our present day personality, from them, we are just the ones responsible
35’00”
for what comes to us, as a result of our contraventions. By using the mind, and observation, we can find out these laws. And these laws are just to serve us if we are not going against them. So, one has to think, to observe, and insist to know. And that knowledge will come to him or to her.
Now, illness in the material body. Can we get rid of this illness? Which illness? Any kind of illness. If it’s not, of course, too late. How? By changing our attitude. Changing in such a way as to stop the cause of this illness, that illness will stop. Even cancers? Yes, many times I have seen
even cancers stop torturing a fellow. Why not all of them? Because all of them are not willing to change. They are not willing to become good people, good persons, loving persons. [(It’s a bad illness and he’s sitting) thinking? just phew?] in a day or two, to change your character, then one has to [suffer]. And that’s not possible for him or her. But I don’t think it is [impossible] if one wants to have that change.
That the cause of illness is guilt, subconsciously felt, we can see it in the Bible. First of all, Christ before curing someone, he felt the need to lighten that personality from the burden of guilt. Saying always: “Your sins are forgiven.” That was a kind of suggestion [unint.] a man believing it, he was cured. So there are psychological teachings in the Bible. Second is what we call faith. What’s faith? Believing? Believing? Can one fellow believe something which is not real? Impossible. Believing means learning, studying, knowing and believing. And he said “your faith has saved you.” So knowing the laws governing health, to make known the laws of the psychical world, is really healing a man.
Is that all we can learn by using the mind? No. Using the mind every day we have to learn new and new things, which we need to know in our life. You can learn the natural laws. Now for instance because [don’t] things come on our head, learn the law of gravity. You should learn by using the mind and observation.
40’00”
So, our lives should be a continuous study. Study life, what is in life. Study our material body. How to keep it in good health. Study, the most important lesson, our personality. Now this is the point. Who is studying the personality? Are we double? Because who will study, will concentrate, insist to know? And who is the other one, that self of ours, to be criticized, be studied with many many thoughts [faults?], many many thoughts [faults?]! Who will see these thoughts [faults?] now? And who will decide how these thoughts [faults?] will be corrected with the other self? Will you reason the thoughts [faults?], want to continue these faults, because first they are believing him. Now this is the point you catch your egoism. Then you know, “I’m not you. I’m your master. In this present moment, you are deceiving me that you are myself, making me to behave in such a way to be ashamed, making me behave in such a way which gives me pain! It gives you also pain.” But the egoism is a masochist. He
likes that pain, because that gives him the sense of living, but that doesn’t satisfy us.
So, using the mind, you find the relative truth concerning our personality. Relative truth. Because the real truth behind it is still something more. You are not the personality and deserve behaving as the personality, but we’ll find out that our self, behind the personality, is [just a glory?] Self. But even so, we shall study now the self, master of the present day personality. So find our Self, our real Self, expressing itself in various stages.
And we’ll study, what we call ‘awareness’, ‘consciousness’, ‘subconsciousness’, ‘super-consciousness’, but these are much much more difficult things to deal ourselves with for the time being. You cannot do that unless we are free from our personal egoism, who will disturb us all the time, claiming and claiming and claiming the satisfaction of desires, believing, that [our egoism?] is serving us. So it needs much thought, concentration, and especially observation. Nothing should escape our attention. Which means studying our life. Our life. Usually people going just to [interfend?] the level of the others. Criticize the others. Claim changes from the others. They don’t start from themselves. Finding faults in others. The same faults in them are not observed, they are going and maybe sometimes we find them as virtues!
So we have now to use the right measure. I had yet an experience. I was in a friend’s…his son…about twenty years of age…had something, that for me ‘that’s stupid and very bad’ to drink. If that fellow would have seen that done by the son of his friend, he would say, “Oh look at the stupid boy, why he is doing that? [That’s unreasonable?] he should don’t do it.”
45’00”
But because his son has done it, his son was ‘clever’ and he would just present it as “yes what a clever boy my son,” and he did laugh. Of course, really and unfortunately, [in a mannerly cypriot?]. And [I] don’t avoid giving slaps, of course not publicly [but I brought him from the arm..I went (unit.)] I said, “You need two slap now” [unint. fellow] After two days, he was speaking to some other things and he said “Daskalos, he doesn’t like me and he doesn’t like my son either. I thought he loved me, [unint.] but, no, he doesn’t like me.” [Can’t lose the opportunity. I said,] “Come here. You are mistaken, in reality, I love you, and I love your son. I don’t like
stupidity.” Then I said, “we’ll change your attitude toward your son, because you will spoil him. I like the boy, that’s why I’m pointing out that he shouldn’t have done it.” Now, I don’t know if he understood that, or not.
Now, what I want to say. We should always use one measure. For us, for our boys, for the neighbors, for everybody [unint.] And the right measure, that means not [while they are doing it] to be strict to the children? No. That’s very bad. To punish children, punish others, that’s still too bad. So I prefer, some of these measures to break them, to throw them way. Not use them at all. But use golden measures now. Not measures made of wood or iron, or other material. Golden measures, which means Love. If you are using this measure, which is love, starting, expressing love, and then pointing out things in a gentle way, the others are ready to accept it. Otherwise, they will not.
So we have just to study the character of the people, that means psychology. How psychology, and according to their character to use the method to change them? No, to enlighten them, not to change them. Not for the sake of changing them, but for the sake of making them feel happier, and more reasonable in life. Because [unless we are going] just believing that we should change them, we are not serving anybody except our egoism. Of course we should be very careful, because the egoism is a devil presenting itself as an angel of light. And I said before that the egoism of the personality is very very cunning. And we should be always very very careful.
Careful, not allowing the egoism to interfere, either presenting itself as an angel of light, even presenting itself as charity and goodness. We shall see what is behind all that, because in life, one should be always careful. Many many things are deceiving, and one should be careful not to be deceived. Using the mind again. In how many ways? In every way and always. This is what we mean, just to learn how to
50’00”
use our mind, how to use it as what I call ‘reasoning thought’. Nothing should escape our attention. Good, or bad. I don’t like the word ‘evil’. There is no evil man. No human being is evil. Stupid, yes. Ignorant, yes. And at the same time, unhappy, self-punishing, yes. But not evil. Because no human being, being a god in nature, can be evil. We must
have this in our minds. So hating a human being, is hating god. I cannot hate a human being. As I said and I repeat it, there are not evil people. They can be ignorant, stupid, unhappy people. Always unhappy if they are stupid, but not evil.
And something else, you cannot help any human being by criticizing him, her, or with enmity and hostility. Now, all human beings around us, those who we are calling [we call them] ‘evil’, are in need of our love. They are not in need of our hatred or complaints, or criticism. As I said that one should never criticize. You should have this in mind. You will never be able to help someone criticizing him or her, hating, despising, you will never be able to help them. So a real human being should have a heart radiating love, love as a bright sun. Just lighting the faces of every human being.
When the sun is giving us light, there are good people and evil people. Is He denying that light, the heat and warmth, to those we consider evil? No.
So, likewise, we are supposed to make our hearts a sun, [unint.] sun, radiating with love. Love for everyone. And this love, this light, everyone is in need of to find his way. And those we call ’sinners’, ‘criminals’, ‘thieves’, names given to people by the others, usually by those who are just the same as they are. Because if you are not like that, you will never observe that. So all these people are not in need of our criticism, they are in need of our love. Guidance? Guidance. Nobody will accept guidance, even your children. And Christ didn’t say “guide the people,” because he was the greatest psychologist in the world. He said “thus should be the light of what you do, your actions, so that the others will see it and follow it.” He said that in Greek. [Greek phrase] Not only that, “And glorify your heavenly father.”
Christ was speaking in the Greek language and in Aramaic. So in the Bible, written in Greek are the real teachings of Christ. What was said by the mouth of Christ. So, the people are not in need of our guidance, by asking them to change, but by following us.
55’00”
Seeing what we are doing. Now, one should try to find: I am doing this fault of criticizing people around me. Most of the people are doing this,
criticizing. Just gossiping? No. Usually in a society, there are many, many rumors. But for everything there must be cause behind it. The enmity of someone against somebody else. They are creating imaginary stories against that fellow. And of course these people like to spread out all these rumors. Are we sure, being in a place, hearing these rumors, are we sure we are using our mind and reason? Not accepting all those things, not allowing ourselves to continue interfering, and saying something we suspect. This is what happens in all communities. “But I heard so,” and because you heard so, you think you have the right to repeat it. What is the reason saying? Now we know that every thought is creating an elemental. Elementals are all around us. Especially the elementals of gossip. Do we strengthen these elementals, or by avoiding taking place, we try to disenergize them. Attacking those who are spreading the rumor? It’s stupid, because doing so, they will insist spreading more. So that’s not the best way. Best way is keeping silent, saying nothing, and sending just an elemental of kindness to both the accuser and the accused.
And just the warm wish that they should reconcile and love each other. This is the right behavior.
So, I have given so many ways, in using in the right way mind as thought. And that’s the proper behavior.
Tomorrow it will be last lesson for the season.
We’ll speak more about the elementals, from a different point of view now. As torturing devils, torturing demons. Because during these days, I see many many people coming to me just saying that they are obsessed by demons, and so many things. In reality they are under the battle of their own evil elementals. But the best thing is, instead of encouraging these things, advise these people to change their own attitude, their way of thinking. Because we are the first to be attacked by the malicious elementals we are creating. That’s clear. So one should be responsible for what he is creating.
Every moment human beings are using the Mind in their own way. Everybody is using the Mind but in their own way. Not as masters of the Mind, using right thoughts, but just in mixing up, in the gossip, in the way people are thinking around them, they are [adding] something to it. We should be now careful in how do we use this [unint.] super-substance of the
Mind.
60’00”
Because, we shall see the Mind not only as thought, but also as energy. Having form, as elementals, affecting the life of everyone around us and our life. So, if we are just to correct this world, we should correct ourselves in how we are using the Mind. Now, we’ll make an exercise.
60’43”
Take breaths, comfortably, deep breaths. And relax completely, your material body. Feel you are completely relaxed. Start from the feet, knees, belly, chest, you are completely relaxed. Now, relax yourself from every thought or feeling. Forget who you are. Feel you are in the whole body, and not in the head. Just feel your body, you are in the whole body. Free from desires and emotions completely, and all thoughts. You are now in your material body. Feeling it.
Now put the question to yourself, “I am living in this material body. This moment, the Holy Archangels are working in my material body. In every blood cell, in the blood, in every artery, in every vein, in every organ, everywhere, the Holy Archangels are working for me. For me, to feel I am living in this material body now, considering me a god.
“I am feeling my material body. I am in it, I have the right to be in it. Am I using the material body in the right way? Do I give, really love, with my material body? Just caressing the child who has my hand, giving a kiss, embracing somebody I love. Or I give slaps instead? And kicks.
“I am allowed to express myself through this material body many ways. Using the eye, seeing. Very serious work of the Archangels of the elements to keep the liquids of the eyes in such a state as I would see through my material eyes. Using my mouth not only in eating, but in speaking, talking. Am I sure I’m using my mouth talking in the right way? Giving love or wounding, offending, or humiliating the others?
“Am I using, really the speech, a gift of the Father who deprived it from the other animals around me, in the right way?”
Christ said, “What enters through the mouth is giving no harm, what is coming out of the mouth is very harmful sometimes, for which we should be careful.”
Who am I. How do I behave? Am I the master of my behavior? Or the victim of an egoism?
Enough.
68’01” {session ends}
{muffled speech, movement, sounds}
71’19” {recording ends}