2- The God of Life and Love Then he continued asking him on the accusation of Sahedrin who wanted him to be crucified. They said, you are the king of the Jews. Are you a king? He replied, you say so. Then continuing, my kingdom is not of this world. He meant his kingdom was the kingdom of the heavens. What are the kingdoms of the heavens? That was all his teaching. The kingdom of the heavens is in you. Within you. He spoke about these heavens. Now, orthodox science can find out these heavens calling them universes of various dimensions. Orthodox science is going to investigate now and find the truth. No matter they are using different terms. We can study the so-called ethereal plane, psychical plane, noetical plane, noetic planes. In studying these planes in our bodies. Because these bodies are of these planes. And these heavens or planes have different dimensions. Yes, of course, Joshua the Christ, the king of the kingdom of the heavens and of the earth, of course, but least of the earth. How could he explain to the governor what means the kingdom of the heavens? What is for us human beings interesting? Only the cross-material world without cross-material body. This means nearly everything, at least to three-fourths of the living people around the planet, civilized or not civilized. What they are interested with is their material body and the cross-material world and what is in the material world, getting it, stealing it, catching it, possessing it, saying it mine. What else? What is the behavior of human beings now on the planet? And, do they possess anything? They think so. Becoming millionaires. Reaching an age where they have to leave everything and go to another plane. Carrying to the other plane anything material is there a bank in which we can just lodge money to have them in the other side of the material world we have here? Of course there is. The heart. Sharing everything with others, not as charity. For me, charity is just a very, very bad word. Sharing with others what they call theirs in love belonging to the others as well. Whatever God created belongs to all. Not just a few gathering them, collecting them, keeping them, calling it their own. Of course, we can take in the other side what we can lodge in our hearts as love. Only love. I say, not charity. Charity is a meaning putting you in a state superior to the others, the others who are there. And, of course, you have that feeling of giving from your own. You are not giving anything your own. What you are giving is what belongs to God. And that what belongs to God belongs to the other fellow as much as it belongs to you. So giving what is God's is not making the other fellow indebted to you. Yet, there is a reward in it. Even if you give a glass of water it says Christ to the other. The water is not yours. Yet, that love of giving that glass of water makes a relation between you and he owes you that glass of water. There is something in it, but not by right. By the grace of God all these things can be studied. One, freeing himself from what I call his personal egoism, will see in a more clear way the reality. So, there is a bank where you can lodge money for the other side. Love and the heart. Giving not just as charity, but as love. Now, what is love? This is the most misunderstood expression. Distorted according to the quality of one's egoism. Love means loving you, honoring you to be with me, to be in my company as a wife or as a husband or as a child or anything. If you just flatter me and do what I want you to do or what I like, I will do it. If one is just going against the will of the father, the mother, the wife, the husband or anything, then you see them clashing. You call that love. Can you love the other as they are and not as you want them to be? Then it is love. Now, if you have dreams for a beloved one, put them down for that one to decide. And then that's again extension of love. Pointing out dangers and what you mean by that change. That's love. Force is not love. We must have that in our mind. No one can use force and call it love. Definitely. Now, what is love? This is the characteristic of our selfhood. God is love. There can't be anything other than love God. And the proof of it, whatever he does in his universes, he is doing it expressing his love. His will pleasure of manifesting itself is just that love. Protecting every creature, every living thing, caring about everything living, using its omnipresence, its total wisdom and almightyness. You can see all that, we said, studying things in the universe. You can find the love of the infinite beingness everywhere. So, one of the characteristics, the main characteristic of the infinite beingness of God is life love. For me, these are synonymous. Life love. The two run together. So, what is the duty of every human being? To find his or her place in universe. The cross-material universe, the ethereal universe, the psychic universe, the genetic universe, all these universes, by studying his own nature as a personality, studying his bodies, which will become a reality for them. Reality. We speak about the etheric double. It is the source of energy for the material body to be built up and sustained. You have to know it. By concentration and meditation and introspection and get control of it, use it, know it. Lessons are given, of course, in our system of research, how to acquaint ourselves with our etheric double, how to use it. By using it, we are sure that it exists. Otherwise, how can we claim that it exists? So, we must now try to study our emotional nature, which is our, what we call, psychical body. In our material body and in our personality, or rather part of our personality. We have to study what is in it. And we find in it what we call the subconscious mind, our subconsciousness. We will find all the elementals created by our desires, emotions and thoughts. And we find out that the sum total of all those so-called elementals, and every elemental has a form of its own, are composing our present-day personality, which is not ourselves. Yes. Life behind it is ourselves. Not in reality, the present-day personality as the bodies, because you find out that the bodies are not yourself. They are built up for you and you use them. You are in them and you use them. So, by studying the nature of the mind as thought now, reasoning, using it in a reasonable way, just controlling desires and emotions, studying them first to know their nature, then controlling them, you just develop what I call your neurotic body. You are just cleaning the three mirrors in which one sees himself a monster, distorted, an image of a monster. Yes, of course, weaknesses, enmities, and all those in the personality are distorting the cleanliness of the mirror. By so doing, you clean it and you see yourself, not as you are in reality, as a very, very handsome god, but at least you don't see yourself in it, I mean in the material body, in the psychical and the neurotic bodies, as a monster. Which is the first image you see in it after cleaning it? Which is not exactly you, yet it is part of you. You are a guardian angel. Who will just help you to clean this three-fold mirror? So, we have to do all that work sooner or later. Now, are people willing to do that? We don't have time. My business, in earning money, or in earning fame, or this and that, many, many, many ways in life, occupying our personality. We don't have time for that. And behaving in one and the other way, in this society, we are creating, quote, unquote the cause and the effect of our actions. Which is sometimes a very, very painful whip of destiny. Hindus call it karma. The mistake with the Hindu philosophy is that karma they mean always something bad. While it isn't so, according to the Christian religion, given by Joshua Manuel the Christ, whatever a man sows, so he shall reap. So, it's not only what you call karma, something bad, just to come to us, but also the reward. So, people are living like that now, in their societies, their nation, in the place the absolute intelligence decided to put them there, to get their next lesson. But they have also the chance of using the mind, the right way of meditation, reasoning, observation, and introspection to reach the truth. So, we have these two ways. One is the whip of destiny, when you do something bad, and the other is the way of thought. Of course, the reasonable ones are using this way of thinking, reasoning, searching. This is, after all, the reason why this system of the seekers of the truth had been created, to show people just this way of reasoning, searching, finding and knowing the truth. For the others, we said, it is the hard way. Of course, end effect. But, sooner or later, by bitterness and pain, everybody will get his or her lesson. Every prodigal son has to return back home. Home where? That's not a place. Back to their own nature, to their God-selfhood. So, in conclusion, all of us are even as a living personality, a God, never being a man or a woman. Our nature as life in the personality is divine. It is our selfhood covered by the bodies. We have to uncover it. A great strong light, if you place three shades over it, what kind of light it will produce just outside on your walls? Very little. We have to take the shades off one by one. Then we have blinding light, which is our real selfhood. So, we have to uncover the light of our soul, of our inner nature. So, I say, by the research of the truth, we are losing nothing and we are gaining everything. By putting away certain things from the light, then you don't have anymore the shadow. We are not losing anything because the shadow is not there anymore. You have the light. What is interesting to you is the light, not the shadow in the world of existence. So, we are not losing anything by putting the light in a better place, not casting a shadow. So, we have to find out that selfhood, divine selfhood of ours, our real self. And what Joseph the Christ says, just lighting a lamp is not putting it just under a table, but in a place to light the whole room. There is a meaning on these suggestions of Christ. Tomorrow we will speak more about the mind, how to use the mind now, setting it free from being the slave of petty desires, stupid desires and emotions. How using the mind as a reasoning, study the nature of desires and emotions to become masters of our material body, of our psychical body and our non-ethical body. We will speak more tomorrow on these thought-forms and emotion-thought-forms called elementals. How they are created, how they look like, how these elementals are influencing us according to their nature and purity. Now we will make an exercise. Relax completely the material body. It is not your material body, you can use it. By relaxing or moving about in your body you are not interfering with the work of the archangels in sustaining that body of yours, joining bones or curing wounds. Feel you are you even as a man or a woman. You can bring forward your name now and how you look as a material body. Now, you are you in this material body of yours. You can use your hands becoming even subconsciously master of the kinetic ether of your etheric body, of your etheric double. You can get mastery of your hands, becoming a painter, a sculptor, a great musician, a great anything. You can gain that mastership, that your present personality can do it. You can use the kinetic ether walking, going about, just exercising your body, playing football, anything else which has movement, motion. This is what your present personality can do. But now all the time your heart is beating to keep the circulation of the blood in the body. Who supervises this work? Who is making your material heart beat? What is the pulse of life? You! You cannot control your heart. It is super-intelligence and the holy archangels of the elements doing it. So you are sure of their existence and presence in your body. They are making your material heart beat and they can check the quality of your blood purifying it. They are masters of your whole body. If you have a wound on your body they will cure it. If you have a broken bone that bone will join. That will be cured also. They are in your body working in it increasingly, every moment, to keep it in good order for you to live in this material body. They are working also in your esoteric double. They are working also in your psychical body, trying to make it good for you to live and use it and clean it. They are working also in your noetical body. They are working in all your bodies, these holy archangels of the elements, of the mind elements. Thank them with your mind. Live in this material body, being grateful to them and not ungrateful. Just living in your material body is a grace from God and one should thank the holy archangels, the creators who have built it up and sustained it and working it for you, for your present personality, being a man or a woman. It is material to them, they don't care about it. They find in this material body a personality. For them, a God can study your material body and thank them for this most precious work closing down wounds, joining bonds, curing illnesses, if of course you let them do it by not exhausting the etheric vitality in a stupid way of living, getting angry, envious, jealous, fighting, hating and all those conditions which burn down your etheric vitality. Now feel you are in this body of yours and that's you, a personality and a God, a personality which has to live in this world in the circumstances the absolute intelligence has chosen for you. Difficult or not difficult or easy. It doesn't matter. You are where the absolute intelligence has chosen to place you to get your next lessons. You don't have the right to object to the divine will. So we have just to learn our lesson and live our life according to the will of the infinite intelligence, according to the will of God, according to the will of the everlasting life in us. We are that everlasting life. We are life. Expecting from us as human beings now who have established a personality to use it in such a way according to the will of God. Becoming something according to the circumstances in our society, in our nation. Put the question to yourself Who am I? A man or a woman? I'm living in this body. And this body lives just like any other animal around us. Am I an animal? Having only a body of bones, flesh, blood and all that as all other animals have all around me? Am I God? Now expressing myself according to the circumstances the divine plan to get certain lessons with other human beings around me. The lessons I have to get is to live feeling satisfied and happy and give the others around me this kind of happiness and satisfaction. To give love and expect love. This is the next lesson we have to learn. Others to be patient tolerant thinking personality reasoning personality not a personality in confusion we have been given everything a body everything has been given to us to make us at least satisfied even not happy the air to breathe and make our body live the supervision over our bodies of the Holy Archangels to keep it in good health for us gave us the oxygen, the air to breathe and make our body live you are breathing subconsciously. Who is making you breathe? And who is just turning that air and the vitality in you as life have two things you have to observe and thank the Holy Archangels breathing and the parts of the heart which is in their control we are living because we are the life the everlasting life you should appreciate that so, as everybody has the right to breathe and make his or her material body live everybody has the right to use the mind so that his or her personality breathes wisdom and live what we need to do now is to use the mind as a reason reasonable thought strong enough to control all kinds of desires and emotions control desires doesn't mean that all desires are sinful or bad because if that was so God would not allow it to influence us but we must use the mind now in a reasonable way to study the nature of these desires fulfill them or reject them the same with the emotions know them study them either use them or reject them this means life in the material world by a personality of a man or a woman and unless we are doing our duty to the life phenomenon we cannot understand what is the everlasting life which is our nature so breathe now deeply feel you are breathing you are breathing all the time without noticing it now you can do it feeling it breathe deeply and comfortably and feel your whole body with the etheric vitality because in the air you are breathing it is not only oxygen it is also the etheric vitality in it and as the lungs are absorbing the oxygen your personality is absorbing the etheric vitality I mean your etheric double of your material body breathe life it is life put your hand on your heart and feel the parts of life is that what you call it? those beats of your heart it is the words of God I love you in every part you hear that word I love you and you leave I am in you when you will be in me consciously? he is waiting patiently he is in us all waiting for us consciously to be in him also he is everywhere enough tomorrow the lesson will be on the mind and the elementals only two lessons every time we give them on Monday, Tuesday are enough for you for the whole lifetime to use them and develop only two lessons are enough only just to get the practical side of it and the theory and live with them