01 - Labyrinth Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifest in yourself, in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, our love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen. I welcome you to Cyprus. Maybe the most interesting thing for a human being is to understand what is life. We are living, as human beings. But if somebody will ask you, what is life? Can you answer? What can life be? And even if I tell you life, life is God. Again, what you will understand? What is God? What's life? Now, we are using words in all the languages without really understanding what is, or what it might be the meaning in this word. What is God? What is life? What is love? All these are synonyms. Now, by using our mind, of course, the sympathic mind, making it our own, by using it properly, by concentrating and observing things, we can come out of this labyrinth, out of this maze of ignorance. You say, but why there should be ignorance? Of course, this is something in the human nature. But what is most, most encouraging is that by using the mind, as we say, consciously, we can come out of this maze, and we can say that we know. But doing that, subconsciously, we are expressing a self. Who knows? Who can concentrate? Who can meditate? Who can use the mind? Then we come to another point. What is the mind? What are these means I am using to know? Then again, to know what? It's just something that needs much study. What can I know? What is everything around me? This I can know. But who am I? Who can know this or that thing? So meditation starts from the very beginning, and everybody can do it if he or she is willing to do it. So there is not any mystery, a secret way. What we need is to exercise our divine nature of observation, concentration, willpower, and come out of ignorance. Willpower. What is willpower? Again, what do we find out after observation and meditation? That we have, and we can get, what we call the knowledge, partly, and then continuing, more accurate, I would say. At the beginning, we don't get things, as I would say, accurately, and we need to concentrate. You say, why? Why can we not get things from the very beginning accurately, correctly? Because the human nature is to just be in a hurry, to get to conclusions. So we have to overcome this weakness of our human nature. And of course, an instructor will tell you, think slowly. Don't jump, don't rush. Concentrate. Now it comes, the point that you use your divine nature of observation. By observation, looking out, you can learn everything. Looking within, you can learn what you are, to make your study on your own self. So, so that all these things will happen, it means we are living, and that can be life. Now, it came to a point. What's life? We can study life all around us. I'm telling you, everything is life, and everything is living. There is not such a thing as death, because if death existed or exists, it means that God cannot be mortal and everlasting. So what we call death is the change. There is not something like annihilation of our so-called self-consciousness. Now we come to another point. What is it to be conscious? In life, now it needs much concentration and observation. Be conscious of something, of the existence of something, and subconsciously to know that I am what I am, who I'm able to know. So, it needs much, much attention, concentration, and our divine nature of observing, observation. But now again, what's observation? We shall see not from the outside things, but from the inner meaning and power of it. To observe is our divine nature, and it is what we call the nature of our selfhood. What's selfhood now? You say self-consciousness? Ah, no. Self-consciousness expresses the selfhood, but the selfhood is common. What we call selfhood is the nature of the absolute infinite beingness, a comprehensible way of selfhood. For us, limited now in a personality, then we have it in expression, what are called the locus selfhood, not lokoic, the locus selfhood, which is common. What are the characteristics of this locus selfhood, which is our nature, and we must find it out by using the mind. What is this? Locus selfhood. Now, we should try just to see the meaning, think the words. Somebody will say, the total wisdom. Definitely, it is the nature of the selfhood. The almightiness. Of course, it is. What is more important is love. Now, what is love? We are using the words every day, but what do these words mean to us? And how can we just study this, the nature which is behind all these words? What is love in matter, the material world? You say, God is love, and love is everywhere, either not manifested or manifested love. Now, let us come to the orthodox science, what the people find out, the scientists. We are put to a fellow, what is cohesion? What can he tell me? Unless there is not this love, cohesion, is that not what you call it? Matter would not exist. Attraction. What is attraction? What is this force, this great power? We can just now detect by observation and meditation, studying things in the cross-material world or around us. Nobody can deny, no scientist can deny the law of cohesion or attraction. We see two things or more things attracted and uniting, and we call that cohesion. But what is that? Why does that exist? I think we are in very deep waters. It is difficult just to enter in it unless we learn the introspection, the observation properly and how to use the mind. Where do we come in conclusion? Let us call it the will of God, more easy expressions. But now what is God? Don't try to imagine God, something beyond our comprehension and our daily life. It is everywhere. You must just understand what is God. When I was giving this lesson to some persons in their time, a fellow who happened to be a dignitary of the church, said, but you minimize God now. Minimize God? And can you see God better way in your imagination or imagining? And can everybody just have the same kind of imagination imagining God? Why should we not just find him, find it rather, in everything? How will we minimize its most divine majesty? Because you will understand what is this great force, power, let us call it almightiness, even in the smallest things, in the cohesion, in the formation of an atom. Because you can see the almightiness, the total wisdom of the beingness and the beingness in the smallest and in the biggest thing. It is just the same in an atom and in the galaxy. So we don't minimize God in studying an atom. This is what the orthodox scientists are doing now. They say just seeing an atom, they can see a solar system, nucleus, neutrons, so many things just behaving in the same way that all planets and all heavenly bodies are behaving in a solar system. There are many, many solar systems in our galaxy. Happily now, astronomy is a good science to make people find God as love and manifestation, manifestation in himself. Just now, let us see things imagining using the mind and the proportions. Again, what orthodox science knows today, sizes in space. The Earth, our planet, is not more than a small little marble. The children are playing now, according to the comparison we'll make. And the Sun, a mass, very mass, as big as this house, maybe not bigger. One million times the Sun is bigger than the planet Earth. There are other planets in our solar system. What studying can I observe? Motion, movement, the circular motion, around the center. And we know that our planet Earth is very, very, very big for us. Just comparing it to other heavenly bodies, it's just like a little marble, comparison to a mass just like this house, very mass. And we see it accurately, moving around its axis, the Earth, every 24 hours. And according to its position, going around the Sun, turning to one side or the other side, it gives to us every year, from old times until now, the same phenomena, winter, spring, summer. This day, last year, or before 20 years, 50 years, 100 years, the Sun was rising at the same time. It is not every day. Say that from Christmas, the day has a minute. It's not a day on the day, a minute. It goes like that. And you have shorter days and longer nights, and longer nights and shorter days according to the season. And one can study all these things and know which is this mind behind it. And within the rotation of the Earth around its axis, let us take now the Earth, that little like a marble. Is that marble we call it? Small thing, going around the Sun. Just make your imagination, have a marble. And the distance between the Sun and the planet is, say, 15 kilometers. Not more, I think, just like that. Just moving around its axis, and accurately in a year, in a year's time, it will make its movement around the Sun. Just put your mind now that distance and the size of the masses, the Sun, the Earth, the planet Earth. Who is hoarding this marble-like mass, which we are calling Earth and we are living on it, moving around the Sun and around its axis without changing? Only fools and people who cannot use their mind are denying this all-mightiness and the total wisdom of what? Of course, we say God. But again, I am telling you, what is God? Is it a human being and a human being? Not only a human being and a human being. Then we come again to our question, what is life? Now, you have to think deeply. I don't want the characteristics of life now. We'll study them later. What is life? Because unless we understand what is life, we cannot understand what is God. What can life be? The beingness incomprehensible, but it should be so that things will exist in it. What is life? Is that space? And space, not only space. Of course, it needs much introspection, observation and meditation just to understand a little about creation. Yes, Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ, the God-man, the most perfect expression of the Locust, had manifested all that in the Sefer HaTzirakh, the study on the creation given by him to the Essenes. Of course, the Jews, the Hebrews, the old Egyptians, and many knew something revealed to them by the holy archangels. But was the human brain able to grasp the truth about all this creative work of the archangels and of the Locusts and of the beingness? Now we come to study the words, the archangels. What are the archangels? We are using words, but we must understand what are the archangels. We should go step by step studying the phenomena and the causes behind the phenomena. Of course, when we say to a fellow an archangel, the human being and the human mind or brains understand something known to them according to their nature, not beyond that. This is the human nature, to try to bring everything in its measures, which is the mistake. We should not just decree truths, try to bring them to the measures of a human brain, but we should expand beyond that to understand the truth, beyond the limitations of what I call human understanding. Because we have just to decide from the very beginning, starting to study and learn all these things, we should remove the barriers from us of the limited way of common human understanding. When I say the archangels, they think that's one Michael, and they think that Michael is just like a human being, or a Gabriel, or a Raphael. I had a fellow the other day, a dignitary said to me, but are there many Michaels and many Raphaels and many Gabriels? I said, of course. Many billions, bigger number, yet one. What's that yet one? This is the point to understand. One in that kind, a nature of expression. But because a human being, a living God as a human being, is limiting its self-consciousness to an individual, to an individuality, cannot understand what is called the common existence, existence, and not the limited existence to a personality. Now, I'll explain it more. Studying a human being, a man or a woman, you cannot say that you know every other human being. Different way of living, all of them are living. Living means the common expression of infinite beingness to be as a human being living. That's common. But each human being, man or a woman, has his own way of living, his own personality, his own individuality. An individuality, but in individuality you enter in the common selfhood, which you find in very, very deep introspection beyond what I call ecstasy, using the mind in a more perfect and impersonal way. Now, of course, suppose I study the character, the nature, the way of expression of a human being. Maybe no other human being is expressing himself or herself in the same way. Studying one Michael, you know all Michaels, because all Michaels have their own, not personality, maybe individuality, we don't have a better word to use, yet there are billions and billions and billions of self-conscious gods in their common archangelic nature. The one and all, something unknown to the human being, living in the world of separateness, in the world of illusions. Because we are in very deep waters, we do not understand what is common locus selfhood. This is what Joshua Manuel de Crist came to teach us. He has taught the Essenes and all those about this common locus selfhood. It is that easy to understand it, understand it as an individual, as a human being, having a name, a form. The form is common to all, to the body name. 01 - Mind In The Worlds Of Existence Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifest in yourself, in yourself, in your total wisdom, in your almightiness, in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Living and thinking, being able to think, is a proof of the existence of God. I repeat it. Living and being able to think is a proof of the existence of God. Because it gives meaning to what we call life. Why? We see phenomena of life all around us. In the cross-material world. Of course, studying all these phenomena of life, of the vegetable kingdom, of the animal kingdom, we can see, we can trace, we can find the total wisdom behind every phenomenon of life. Sing it. You see harmony. You see that nothing is beyond the ability of an intelligence concerning that kind of life. You see many, many things in one kind of life. And you see in all things the total wisdom concerning that kind of life. Therefore, we can think and reason. So, seeing life all around us, we see that all those phenomena of life are living. Are they thinking? Are the dogs thinking? Are the cows thinking? Using the mind as thought? No. Of course not. They express obeying to that feeling of continuing existing, of prolonging their existence. We see what we call it instinct. But instinct is not thinking directly of the one expressing the instinct. We see all animals around us expressing the instinct. But instinct is not reasonable thought. There is in it the wisdom, the total wisdom of the Almighty and the intelligences who are creating those phenomena of life. And maybe they are living in these phenomena of life. Living in which way? Creating angels to control them. But who is controlling them? Behind the angels are the archangels. So, we can see the total wisdom of the phenomena of life all around us in the cross- material world. But all those phenomena of life are not expressing thought, as we call thinking. Some say that instinct is a kind of thinking. No, it isn't. Maybe it is the thinking of the intelligences behind the phenomena of life, of the archangels. Let's go into that. The archangels can think, are thinking, are manifesting a self. Now, we have just to see now the relationship between thinking, using the mind, in a special way, with the self. Yes, now we come to see that the self, what we call the self, the holy archangels are expressing an archangelic self. The human beings are expressing a human self. But there is still a self common to all, which is the absolute selfhood, which is proving us not only the existence of God, but the beingness of God. So what is God for us now? We see now God from a different point of view than we saw in previous lessons. See it in a more practical way. Because we say that God is the absolute, infinite selfhood in its omnipresence. There is no place, the sense of a place where we don't see the total wisdom. That means that expression of the divine selfhood. So, but who can do that? The cows, the dogs, the sheep? Not, of course. But a human being can do it. Why? This is the proof that a human being having, expressing a self is God. Similar to God. He has his divine being self, expressing it as a phenomenon of life, just like the other phenomena of life, but through that phenomenon of life we call a human being, we see the divinity. The right use of the mind in thinking. Now we are using the God-mind. We said in previous lessons that the absolute, infinite beingness, the mind is. But it is not existing in manifestation. It is. It is the nature of the absolute, infinite beingness. To feel is self-sufficiency. Now we see the mind in a different mode of beingness, not of existence. Now we see the mind in existence. We have to understand the two different things of being and existing. So the mind is unmanifested in the absolute, infinite beingness. Now how is the mind in the absolute, infinite beingness? Unmanifested yet. What we call the total wisdom. And the almightyness. It is there. So we find the total wisdom of the absolute, infinite beingness in manifesting in itself inwardly, not yet existing. The mind. So the mind is of much, much importance. And in the world of beingness, and in the world of beingness, and in the world of existence. We cannot understand what is the mind unless we study the mind in the lowest manifestations of it in the cross-material world. So, the lesson today is just to understand the mind in the world of existence. Manifested. Now we said in previous lessons, who is manifesting the mind? It is the nature of whom this mind, as we call it the mind's super-substance. Now what is the super-substance? We cannot know exactly, since it is formless. It is motion. Motion, but without anything moving. So how can you trace motion? If you don't have something moving to see it moving, and see it moving, you see the thing moving. Can you see motion causing the movement? So it needs much thinking to understand that seeing something moving, there must be motion in it or using it to move. So, can you connect now the mind, super-substance, and in all these manifestations with movement? Definitely. Unless you see something moving, how can you understand what is mind? What is thought? Movement in time. Unless you have that movement in time, how can you have a thought? That is rather a little difficult to understand that, but that is the reality. So, now, we just connect the mind to what we call movement, motion. How can we use this word, a better word? Motion, movement. It is the same thing. Then we see the mind in the manifested world. Manifested. Everything to exist, it is the mind. Now, we can understand what is super-substance. Because from that super-substance, unconceivable, we see coming out what is manifested, seen. We can see it now. It is creating something. And we said in previous lessons that all the universes have been created by the holy archangels, the holy intelligences, those selfhoods, in the lokoic selfhood, using the mind. And we said that this mind super-substance emanates from the absolute infinite beingness and divineness, and the holy archangels as a result of the willful pleasure to manifest themselves where? In themselves? Because they are omnipresent also. As omnipresent is the absolute infinite beingness. Now, more, it is not easy to understand. The real nature of all these things, it is not very easy to understand. Just using a handful of earth, we call it the material brains. But of course, we can know much more when we reach that state of our existing self, the time and place self, to be awakened in the higher realms, not in need of using the material brains, but using directly the mind. But then, we are not common human beings. We are solely ourselves. Having the same form, the human form. We are still human, but still we are on a higher level, away from what I call the ground, the soil, the earth, the clay, call it whatever you like. So, shall we say now that the material body and the material brains, that handful of earth in our skull, in our head, is barring out the reality from us? Is keeping us in ignorance? Definitely. This is what is making a human consciousness, no matter in which degree it expresses itself, to have the illusion, because that's not the reality, that's out of the oneness of the absolute infinite beingness, and creates a kind of separate self from all the other people expressing a self and, unfortunately, from the absolute infinite beingness. So, we are in the oneness of the locus, of the earth sati, of the absolute infinite beingness, yet being in a cross of material body, we have the feeling that we are different as something, not the absolute infinite beingness, that we get out of the oneness. This is an illusion in reality, because if it was possible to be like that, we wouldn't be able to live. We cannot get out of life. And now, we can understand what is life by studying the phenomena of life around us, and that phenomena of life, we call it our time and place self. Now, our time and place self, I don't mean the cross of material body. We can study the cross of material body by using the mind now, individually using the mind now. So, God the Father granted us the authority and the right to use the cross of material mind, even separated from its oneness. He was, this day, our daily bread. Now, that we have the right to use the mind, the proof is that we are using the mind as thought, only as thought. Now, we can use the mind now as emotions, as desires. Still, we are using the mind as super substance and substance. But we can't use the mind still as ether. Now, the mind as ether becomes energy, power. Power already manifested because the mind is power. But now, we see manifested that power and cross matter. The cross matter is the mind solid. But solid, what do we mean solid? It is something we must understand. What is solid? In reality, nothing is solid. Since x-rays can pass through your body, how is it solid? So, now, we study what we mean solid. It is something most important to study. I speak of my own experiences. Solid is something we understand by touching it with something similar to the same vibrations with that thing you are touching. Otherwise, it cannot be solid for you. Now, we have a cross material body. We know our cross material body. We call it solid. It is solid for us as long as we are living in a cross material body. We touch things cross material things. Why are they solid for us? Because our hands are as solid as that thing. That means that hands are vibrating to that rate of vibrations as the other things are vibrating. So, we call them solid. This is solid. Touching it. And what is solid in the cross material world is giving also ethereal or etheric feelings of cold, hot and other kinds of feelings which means that holding, touching something with my cross material hand something cross material I get feelings. Why? Because in my cross material body is also what I call the body of the feelings the etheric double and the psychical body exactly in the same form as our material body. Now, do you have the feeling of cold and hot and warm in the psychical plane? As you have it on the cross material world? No. But we have a kind of feeling there which is giving you that it is pleasing or displeasing to the various degrees of feeling pleasure or what can I call it? It is pleasure. We can use it. Something we don't want it. So, the same thing applies to the so called noetical world. Now, if I am out of my cross material body I say I am speaking from my own experiences and I come in this room now of course this is not an easy thing for everybody to do it. He must first be able to make self conscious exosomatosis out of the material body being there. So, if you can by practice by training just to express yourself except the cross material body have the self consciousness outside of the cross material body what body will be solid to you now? This cross material body? Yes. As long as you are in it you find it it is your cross material body solid and you can touch and see things which are solid cross material. If you are out of your cross material body not bound in the etheric double because this is a difficulty you have to overcome from the etheric double and be to the psychical world and be in your psychical body and you feel your psychical body then your psychical body is solid for you and everything vibrating to those vibrations of your cross of your psychical body are solid for you. So, you can touch things there and feel they are solid. Now, if I pass if I am here in my psychical body self conscious here I can see all of you. Why? Because you have a psychical body. I will not see your cross material body but I will see your psychical body in your material body. So, a fellow in exosomatosis that means in out of the material body self expression is finding the cross material world of course quite easy to approach though the cross material body is vibrating such way that you feel that is not your world to stay. So, you have to practice how to lower down your vibrations to be in the cross material world. This is the difficulty they find those who depart from the cross material body you call them dead to approach and be too close to the cross material world because even if they come here they find that attraction from another state they cannot stay they can be near their beloved ones see them try to talk to them but what is the first impression of those who are living in the psychical world soon after they leave their material body can they see their material body there dead some do but the angels the angels try to make them not see their material body dead there if they are self conscious of all these things they can just see it when they can see it if they know what we call exosomatosis getting out of the body self consciously and you can see your material body there entering it or going away of course it is not difficult passing away just to see your material body dead there then you know I am not dead it is the material body which is dead now but of course the angels are laughing yes that will not affect you see it there because you are practicing you know these things otherwise the angels try when a common man passes away not to see his material body dead but just to be convinced that they are living in their body in their psychical body considering it solid and it is solid of course the psychical plane is solid for them the cross material body is not solid for them they can pass through cross material things without even noticing them so they are losing the sense of solid so solid is something we are feeling and not something which is in reality so solid for a man leaving his material body is when he is feeling solid through a body vibrating to the same rate of vibration with these things they are considering solid so for a fellow who is living the cross material body even in exosomatosis one who knows how to do that and for those who are living the material body by the phenomenon of the death of the material body not of their death there is not death for the personality solid is the word vibrating to the same rate of vibration with the body they are living in so if I can be here in this material world with my psychical body and I see things because they have their psychical counterpart if I concentrate in these things I can see them can I move a chair in the material world many times I have tried it no because when I try my hand will pass through it that is not solid for me anymore living in my psychical body and if I want to move it it is necessary to move it I have to lower down the vibrations of my psychical hand to the vibrations of that thing and then I am able to move it but hot people there will understand that they see something materializing and moving it and if you want us to move something in distance never mind how far it is very easy to go there with your psychical body or even project an elemental of yourself and control it in far distant places but how is that elemental this is the psychical state not in cross material you have to materialize it so that it will move something cross material how by lowering the vibrations to the rate of the vibrations of the solid thing you want to move so those who are living in the psychical world the psychical world is for them real and not the cross material world and I say if they can descend descend why the cross material world is here the psychical world is here and many kilometers around the planet so they have to lower just to send them to the surface of the cross material world and I say that for those who are passing away there is an attraction upwards which prevents them to stay in the psychical atmosphere of the cross material world but by training they can come down suppose a fellow can come down to this cross material world from what we call they call it spirit world it is not yet the spirit world the spirit world is much much higher and here also they come here the spirits they see people these are certain spirits you may call them earth bound if you like who are influencing people living in the cross material world and then we have the phenomenon of spiritualism which I don't approve so what are the mediums are there sincere and real mediums who can come in touch by the vibrations just creating the vibrations the same with that are there mediums on earth yes of course they are those who by nature or by practice sitting for development as they say they become self conscious of their etheric double because that's the in between they can just be in attunement with entities or beings entities or beings I will explain that living in the psychical world with entities living in the psychical world I mean the elementals and the beings staying in the psychical world the beings of those who have departed from the cross-material body and they are living in the psychical world or in higher worlds the higher you are living more powers you have just to descend to the lower worlds that means development so why I don't approve spiritualism because as people now are using these mediumistic powers coming in touch with the psychical world they are not self-conscious to this world as self-consciously aware with this world how can they know that they come in touch with an entity they are always a being there an entity I mean an elemental so there is much deception they may be honest and sincere but elementals could come and must get it that they are the beings that's why I'm against spiritualism unless one is awakened he's self-conscious to distinguish and understand this is an elemental and this is a being and if one is able to do that why should he come in touch with these beings or elementals on the lowest plane, that means on the material world and not himself go there where there are less mistakes being more aware of that world so I say the psychical body of a human being is a reality for me yes because I can use it self-consciously the psychical world is a reality which is where and here and many thousands of kilometers around our planet beyond that not the psychical counterpart of the cross-material world our earth they say that every cross- material body in space has its own etheric double and it has its own psychical counterpart and I'm telling you no human being living on this planet living in a material body or living in the so-called psychical counterpart of this planet can live the planet he can be in the 49 sub-planes it depends of this planet the hells and the paradises according to the vibrations of his shell in which he is living but no human being with his psychical body can live the psychical so-called counterpart of the planet definitely even if they have gone to the other planets or they are coming from the other planets they are in illusion they are mistaken they think so I say again with the psychical body nobody can live the psychical counterpart of this planet of the earth paradises or hells but when a fellow a human being as a soul now self not as a personality even hearing to his name male or female feeling it being independent soul self still being what is his sex on earth as long as that fellow is living in a material body or so develops his self consciousness to higher levels to what I call to his noetical body he can visit the noetical world and of the planet and of any other planet why? of the solar system because though the psychical counterparts of any heavenly body cannot come in contact with the other psychical counterparts of any other planet the noetical is just the ocean in which all are in it so he can go would make it plain when one succeeds to be self conscious to use self consciously his so-called noetical body he can leave the psychical world of the planet he can go to the noetical world of any other planet of our solar system now I'm speaking again from my personal experiences being there can you come in touch with the psychical world of that other planet yes if you know how to lower down your vibrations from the noetical body to what you call your psychical body and then know and move about self consciously to the psychical counterpart of that planet and I'm telling you that's most difficult it is not an easy thing can you materialize on the other planet it's going down lower your vibrations to the cross material world of mars or of venus or of any other planet you can provided that that planet the cross material of that planet is not the same as our material world and so you have to learn to know the physics of that planet as you can through your noetical body create even create another psychical body an elemental on this planet and then even materialize it in the cross matter you have to train yourself for that you can do that also in another planet you put the question have you done that I don't have time for that there is so much cry of pain on this planet and you have given just a promise to the most beloved one to stay and serve here I can but I am not willing to do it neglecting my work of mercy on this planet so for me what Joshua Manner the Christ said in my father's house there are many many impassions it is not something he said and I believe it but something I know it's true it is yes in our father's home his father and our father are many many mansions that means many many worlds that's why I am using the word universes and not universe and all those wise ones who have lived before us said you are universes Allah are full of your glory many many wise words so this planet earth now human beings know much much much about this planet since they can go around it flying around it with jets and everything it's very small for the human beings now and now they want to search other worlds they make the mistake they want to visit other cross-material worlds the moon they try to go to mars why don't they try just to contact these worlds in another dimension this is what's wrong with the orthodox science now they are still bound on the cross matter what is their gain if they go to venus or to mars to moon they have gone to moon they went there walked there found the conditions there and that that that's knowledge that's good but is that the right direction no they are wasting their time they can study these worlds with other means by knowing the worlds of other dimensions and other dimensions it's much easier for them to visit these worlds and see even the cross material counterpart of those worlds that knowledge will be given to them seek the kingdom of the heavens and everything will be given to you this is great truth but of course searching the cross material counterparts of those worlds how do they know of the worlds of other dimensions connected with these worlds that means the psychical counterpart of venus or the psychical counterpart of mars or the noetical world of venus or the noetical world of that so they are on wrong direction for how long they will find the necessity now to see but after it is not only the cross material that counts they started already to understand that there are other worlds of other dimensions which they should study should know more about it and besides it is the world that sooner or later we have to go for how long a human being will live in a cross material body more than 150 years so god the father is giving us the lesson you stupid ones your life in a cross material body in this cross material world is not endless and you know now using the mind the animals cannot use the mind and know that there are other worlds and there is another way of life and what is even the meaning of life living instinctively but we are gods we can study and know our nature besides the cross material body as our emotions and come in conscious at the beginning conscious contact with our psychical body and later come in self conscious contact with our psychical body that studying and practicing can see that we can unfold ourselves ourselves to higher planes to come at the beginning again I say in conscious contact with the energetical world and later in self conscious contact with the energetical world which means coming to the reality what is life in the worlds of existence we are still in the worlds of existence so in the worlds of existence we find the cross material world all the cross material counterparts of all the heavenly bodies in the immense space but I said we must get to other directions to other dimensions and we must start from the fourth dimension of our cross material world how by studying our fourth dimensional psychical body develop it live in it be conscious of it and then self conscious of it and then for us living in the cross material world is possible and live at the same time in the psychical world of our planet that means getting to another room of our house so simple as that for me being aware that in our house is not the only one room we are living here there are other rooms bigger rooms bigger halls and I can enter them and see them what it is so so now I say the words of existence as far as a human being using its human intelligence can know are seven which are these seven words so 1 - Gods in Exile Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightyness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. The lesson today will be of great importance. Because it will state what do we believe as seekers of the truth. And also the proof that what we believe is right. That's why it is most important. What we'll hear today you cannot find it in books. Because those who have known these things could not just present things in words or in books. And I confess that what I try to do now is something very daring to do. But I will try, though I believe I will be most awkward in expressing everything I know in words. Not only in English, in any language. What I will say is out of personal experiences. Now, we said what we know about what we call the absolute reality. What's reality? About the absolute infinite beingness. About God, is that God is the everlasting life. So, the absolute life. But can one know what is an ocean by analyzing and seeing a drop of water from the ocean? In quality, yes. But in quantity, no. Anyhow, we can know something after we raise our self-consciousness to higher and higher levels of self-consciousness to understand what we are in reality. And then we understand what is the absolute reality. Absolute reality. Yes, but, now, suppose somebody will ask you, Do you know what is the sun? Of course you say, I know what is the sun. Just all of fire in the sky giving us light. Heat, during the winter we can sit out and get warm. And, of course, I'll ask you, do you really know what is the sun? You say, of course I know what is the sun. Because I can sit in the sunshine and get warm. I can see on the sky, not for a long time, because that will burn my eyes. Are you sure you know what is the sun? Just billions of times bigger than the planet Earth. If we say we know what is the sun, we'll be liars. But if we say we don't know what is the sun, again we'll be liars. Because we know something about the sun. In the same way, if we say that we do know what is God, we'll be liars. But if we say we don't know what is God, again we'll be liars. Can we just engage our material brains, a handful, I said, of soil, with what is the absolute infinite beingness? That's very dangerous. It's as dangerous to the eyes looking at the sun. It is likewise very dangerous to the human intelligence to engage itself with this absolute reality. To the human intelligence. Not to us. Because we are not only an expression as human beings showing a kind of human intelligence. As I said, we should know these things. After raising up our consciousness, we all know that we just express a kind of consciousness. Subconsciously though, if we raise that kind of our consciousness to higher and higher and higher levels, to what I say, super self-consciousness, then we know that it's not any more any danger in knowing. But are we that time really human beings? Or we are something more? Are we the animals just moving about with a material body not very different from the bodies of all the other animals around us? Of course we are different. We are gods. And we can just know by expanding our selfhood to what I say, self-superconsciousness, to know what? What we really are. Because we are not going to become anything we are not now. So we have double nature now. Our human, petty nature. The shadow of our self. And our real self. What is our real self? First of all, our real self, the self of every one of us is a spirit, ego being. Self-conscious, ego being. What are we? Even as gods. A ray of our self. Not the whole of our self, because our self is all the time in attunement with the absolute infinite reality. With the absolute infinite selfhood. But even that ray is our self. It's that great self. No need to know what's the ocean. I know now what's a drop of water from the ocean. But shall we see things as quantity? No. Just seeing things less, more, and still more is by comparison. Comparison, that's in the law of the world of separateness. We enter now in the world of the great truth. There is not anything as less or more, big or small. It is what is the reality. So we, even that ray of that self of ours always in attunement with the infinite selfhood. We are not less than our real self, that spirit, ego being. We are that, and that is we. Now we have just to reach to the so-called self-realization. How? Just seeing what the absolute infinite beingness is doing, and we do the same. Exactly. That's what we have to do. Now, we say that each one of us is a divine ray of our spirit, ego self, incarnated and humanized. How? We can study that. Observation, meditation, self-realization. Studying the petty self of our personality, which is nothing more than the shadow of that self of ours. We can study that. Who is studying it? Both. And our human material self having in it our real nature. They said yesterday that we, human beings, living even in a form, material form, not different in constitution by the other animals, yet we are gods. So we have double nature. We have, just by introspection, find it out. Did anybody before us, through all those centuries we call the past, have found that great truth out? Many. And they have just expressed that truth, again I say, most awkwardly, in a human way, as I am doing now. Most awkwardly. How can one express what is light? Unless we take you and tell you, see the light, and now you know what is the light. Otherwise, how you would know what is the light? Without seeing it. I am telling you that many, many in the past have reached that level of self-superconsciousness to make this self-realization. All others? In the past centuries? Now? Now, living on the planet, everywhere, in the material plane, in any nation, civilized or not, what are they? Concentrated on the shadow of themselves, which is their personality. Making the mistake, the expression of this time and place self, to think they are that, and live just only one step above all the other animals. Unfortunately, sometimes behaving like wild beasts, killing. You can find this in all the countries of the world today. You could find it in all the countries of the world at all times in the past. Now, great ones, amongst us, who I believe they have been sent on this mission, by the infinite beingness, to guide their brothers away from the darkness and the illusion, to find themselves have come on the planet. Until the God-man, directly from the locus, the locus came down to show us the way. Which way? Not necessarily of returning back home, but of living a better life. Until we return back home. Where? It's not a matter of place, to return back to our real nature. Our divine nature. Because I said, we are gods. When the petty shadowy self of the personality today will cast away from it, just, I'll call them, those elementals composing the personality, enrich the knowledge who is that real self behind it. This is just the great, the great achievement. To find who we are, and later what we are. Reaching our inner nature. Is it necessary just to reach to that? To leave our material body, the psychical and the neurotic body? Is it necessary? No! That's not the aim of just throwing away the material body. Because our material body, our psychical body, and our neurotic body, the one made of matter, the other made of substance, and the other made of purer substance, are nothing more but the shapes of our real human form in God. So our human form is what I call our spirit body, which is immortal, it lives its own life with us, eternal, incorruptible. So, on reaching back to our nature, it's not necessary to cast away the human form. Which is now our spirit body, our soul. Many times we hear about the soul. But who came just to describe to you what is the soul? What are you as a soul? This is the point. So we are not to just throw away our human form. But we can clean our bodies. Our cross-material body, our what I call the psychical body, by knowing what's the psychical body. By using now our etheric double of our material body, becoming to us now a reality, by now knowing the existence of our so-called noetical body, freeing the mind from serving the desires and the emotions. That means by cleaning these bodies in such a way to reflect the light of our spirit body. And then, our ego, present-day self, will just assimilate all that to the real spirit body, which is our soul. Our human purified existence. Existence. Now it's a different thing between existence and beingness. Existence is something in time and place-space. But beingness means in the eternal now, in the eternal present. You have just to study all these states of consciousness and self-consciousness. Though I know we are very deep waters, I think you can understand much. What is consciousness? We said yesterday that everything on the material plane is living. The sun, the rocks, the metals, the crystals, everything is living. But living means expressing a kind of existence at the beginning and for the human beings, a selfhood. And we said yesterday that the mineral kingdom has what I call sensitiveness, sensibility. The vegetable kingdom has a kind of, again, more developed sensitivity and life. The animal kingdom is showing what I call instinctive subconsciousness. The human being is expressing a kind of subconsciousness, calling it waking consciousness. We have to study this. Why we call it waking consciousness? Why it is subconsciousness? Now, psychology tries just tracing in darkness to find out a solution for that. For us, it's known. Studying what I call the subconsciousness, the subconscious mind. Then, finding out who is the thinker behind all that. What are we? Even as human beings, full of mistakes, errors, weaknesses, stupidities. What are we behind that? By concentration and introspection we find our way out from this darkness. What we find? That our personality composed of those elementals, of our impressions, likings and dislikings, and thoughts. These elementals are composing the present, the personality. We make the terrible mistake to think that it's our self. Now, by introspection, studying things, we start to find out, yes, now, who am I? Thinking behind it. Not being influenced by the time and place, space, impressions. Studying the nature of my so-called desires. Thoughts. Becoming master of it. Then we start tracing our self. To know who we are. Who we are, not what we are. Who we are? A self-consciousness in its bodies. A god in exile. That's the great truth. A god imprisoned in his bodies, which he has been imprisoned in them to purify them, to make them good enough just to reflect itself in the right way. And then get free of those bodies and enter and express himself now as his spirit body, which is just a human form. We are not going to leave away our human form. We have dressed ourselves with our human forms in the eternal past. Why did we enter in the human form unless it was within us all the time in a latent state of beingness, coming out to the world of existence? It's a very difficult thing to trace. I'm trying to trace it now, in this incarnation. That's why I told you, I express all this great truth most awkwardly, not knowing everything. Now, to find ourselves. It's discouraging. Somebody will say, to find what I am. Not something more to what I am. Of course you'll find much, much more. You are considering yourself an animal living in a material body. Of course you'll find out what we are in the bodies. What we are is later. We'll find our true nature as spirit, ego, sense. In the absolute, infinite selfhood. Then we understand and respect what is self. And what self is not what we think it is. Just a name, male or female, desires, weaknesses, impressions, or these are shadows in time and place. So important to our personality now. Yes, so important, yet without having a real value to our real selves as spirit, ego, source. That's the great truth. So, we believe that and we have a proof about that. That's the truth and the proof about all that. Because we can do what our brethren, the holy archangels are doing in the universes, all the universes. Now a man who reaches that level of self-superconsciousness can live self-superconsciously not only in the material plane, but in the psychical plane, be an invisible helper. In the innuendical plane, again be an invisible helper. And even beyond that, the innuendic planes. So, then that fellow knows what are the works of existence and what is the absolute, infinite beingness as the reality behind them. Now he realizes what is in the absolute, infinite beingness the self-sufficiency and what is in the absolute, infinite beingness as the holy archangels, the mortal beings, his brethren the will pleasure of expressing manifesting themselves where? In the absolute, infinite beingness, in the omnipresence of the absolute, infinite selfhood. And what he finds out more that he also, as a spirit solico being has this self-sufficiency yet he expresses the will pleasure of manifestation in which way? Some are coming down to be enchanted by matter and by the mind substance, a super substance enchanted. The same way a fellow is drinking wine and becomes drunk. Most of the people are like that. And there are some who came down, let us say that down to the emission to the beginning they didn't know what was that emission until during many, many, many incarnations they found it out. Not just to please, create and please a time and place personality enchanted by what is material and personal but coming down self-aware of who they are to serve their fellow men. A very, very difficult task indeed. Very difficult. Even for gods. So we have just these two expressions of those rays just expanding from the source to be incarnated and humanized. That's a proof. We are humanized. We are incarnated. We are human beings. We can study and know not only what our bodies are we can do that by using the mind and thought but now check our behavior know our personality and study it. Study our expressions the reactions from the material plane to whom? To that self of ours which in nature is God but now is under the influence of the words of darkness of ignorance and of the idea of death being a human being being a present day personality a man or a woman but now studying we find out what? That is not for a long time. Of course it is for a certain number of years expressing a shadow self a present day personality liking and disliking being pleased or displeased feel what you call pain or joy all these are vanities who was vanities and that's good it is so that they don't last for long no pain lasts forever and no human joy likewise that's very good because if that would happen then it will make those rays from our spirit ego being being misled in the world of shadows and darkness no many of you are not ready to receive this great truth being so much in love with your material self but after all you won't have it forever the material body which is changing everyday every hour, every moment because this cross material world is under continuous change nothing remains everything is changing we are growing all living beings are growing and then passing over everything on this material world you have to study in the course of existence has a beginning and an end then you have to find out our real self who doesn't have a beginning and an end but is what I call the everlasting life we are the everlasting life but who? Mary? George? John? Not them now what is our Christian religion teaching us? I don't mean the cardinals, the bishops and the archbishops the patriarchs they don't know what they say Joshua Emmanuel the Christ our most beloved one it's in the bible, you can find it and trace it that's all that so we have a proof having the experiences of the god man which we can have also and reach to the right knowledge about things and to the conviction that we are on the right way towards the truth now let us come a bit lower what the archangels are doing what is common between us and our brethren the holy archangels the archangels expressing their archangelic selfhood self-awareness according to its nature and cooperating together in a most perfect way they are using the super substance of the mind formless, having in it the principles, the ideas the causes, the laws weaving with them the words of form how? Using the mind meditating weaving out the laws and the causes into the words of the forms in this way, constructing the words of existence they work with what I say now time as present past and future these things are developing and give the sense of time going on therefore they have the power being almighty to materialize the mind into the universes to all material forms now in the universes and in the cross-material universe around us every kind of phenomenon of life having a material body, marvellous work and working in what we call the sense of time working what I said yesterday the circle of possibilities of each kind of phenomenon of life this is a marvellous work so they are working with the mind, with the laws the principles in what we say time and the course of things which are what? the locus the locus is the infinite beingness in manifestation and Joshua Emmanuel the Christ feeling himself being the locus he said I am the way, the course of things I am the way, the truth and life great truth in it which we have to find it out so what are the holy archangels doing? just being in attunement with the locus and definitely with the total wisdom of the infinite beingness and their total wisdom being in oneness in attunement with the Lord to use the mind that soon these immortal beings and the absolute beingness expresses when always the will pleasure of manifestation the mind emanates from them so they are using the mind and we said in a lesson that the mind is super substance formless substance substance matter, the ethereal world and cross matter cross matter is solid mind nothing is outside the mind now let us see how these holy brethren of ours are working they create in themselves and in the absolute beingness the sense of space something incomprehensible to us what space boundless space to work in it work with the omnipresence in space of the absolute reality of the absolute selfhood so meditating working on the principles on the ideas and causes them manifest the forms billions and billions of forms to be materialized all phenomena of life are materialized in the material plane but there are also other phenomena of life in the psychical plane in the ethereal plane in the egotical plane, one raising his self consciousness to those levels not only he can see them enjoy them in the same way he can enjoy nature here around him, forest, sea and everything, can enjoy also what his holy brethren are creating in the other heavens worlds of different dimensions and just there I think he can just understand better how they work because he comes in those worlds in contact with them, in self- conscious contact with them, what he finds out that they are just materializing the mind in all its states and frequencies of vibration of existence can the human being do that? definitely, being God he can do it is he doing it now? yes, subconsciously subconsciously a human being, any human being either aboriginate or highly civilized human being is just doing it subconsciously by creating what we say elementals which he cannot see with his material eyes but he is under their pressure sometimes they crush him psychology calls them fixed ideas but you can see them clairvoyantly Christ called them spirit, meaningless and mute, but you can find that in the new testament and what these elementals can do today drive a human being insane to the mental hospitals in the old, make him throw himself down and you have all those phenomena of epilepsy, most of them are not pathological you have to study all these cases so what is written in the new testament is not just lazy tales they are realities which we can investigate and see them even now as possessions so, a human being every hour, every day every moment is creating these elementals by using subconsciously the super substance of the mind giving it a form which he doesn't see with his material eyes but they are visible to a clairvoyant if he's not giving them himself a form by desiring having something, a jewel or something around him they get their form sometimes very hideous, very just terrifying forms especially when these elementals are created by passions hatred, envy, jealousy just the feeling of attacking and man is responsible for he either creates or revitalizes from the group elementals so instead of a human being man or a woman, living in this society in any place being always under the influence of these elementals his own personality because the sum total of these elementals are composing a man's personality expressed as the personal egoism so instead of just all the time being under this influence of these elementals feeling unhappy, unsatisfied miserable it's better to study their nature find out who he is and what he can do degenerate them control them don't you think that this is after all a great, great success instead of all the time being slave of, quote unquote, circumstances I will call it slave of the elementals he is creating or revitalizing or he is absorbing created or revitalized by others just vibrating on the same frequency of vibrations of these elementals which gives to him the responsibility we said in certain lessons though we are in an ocean now a psychical ocean around the planet of these group elementals theft, adultery homosexuality lust, drinking gambling, so many, so many group elementals we are in this ocean then we are responsible if we vibrate according to their vibrations and throw them like, seeks like no good man can be influenced by what we call evil elementals though a wicked person can be influenced sometimes by what we call the love elementals or the good elementals because everybody can find himself sometimes feeling being good so, throwing good elementals 1 Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightyness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. What is, was always, and will always be, is the absolute infinite reality we call God. The absolute infinite beingness. The absolute infinite beingness is self-sufficient. What is the absolute infinite beingness? According to the old Egyptian language and the Aramaic language, it is something human intelligence cannot reach. The only thing we can know about this absolute infinite beingness is that in its plurality there are being and existing billions and billions and billions of beings similar to the absolute infinite beingness, whom I call them God. And in addition, in this absolute infinite beingness is the pleasure and will of manifesting itself in itself, as this absolute infinite beingness is omnipresent everywhere in the sense of space and place. So, what we can say more is that when, and this was always, there was not any time, it was not, when this absolute infinite beingness vibrates in itself this will pleasure of manifestation, how? To manifest what? Itself as life and its total wisdom and all-mightiness. When the absolute infinite beingness vibrates in itself, this will pleasure, it manifests itself also, not as a second God. As the locus, or the manifestation, as the absolute infinite now beingness. You have in one the absolute infinite beingness and the absolute infinite beingness. We said that something to be manifested must have its duality. So we see the duality of the absolute infinite beingness. The absolute infinite beingness. And beings in the absolute infinite beingness co-vibrating to this will pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness to manifest itself and themselves, where? In themselves. Their omnipresence causes the emanation from God and from them of the super substance of the mind. The means by which everything will be created. What is this absolute infinite beingness manifesting now? Definitely the total wisdom in the divine plan. That means everything is predestined. And rather speaking humanly, well organized. So that it will manifest the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. And so we see now the absolute infinite beingness. The manifested now God and the beings in it classifying themselves in their orders, in their archangelic orders according to the work they are destined to perform. Becoming, as we might say, the all-lords of the elements. Elements? What are the elements? Definitely the super substance of the mind in its various ways of manifestation. It's an element. Everything is the mind. So, as human beings now, the enlightened ones, through these past centuries could trace and find studying what we call the worlds of existence now. Of the manifestation of the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. They have traced and studied seven heavens. Seven states of manifestation in the worlds of existence. Are there only seven heavens? As far as human intelligence can reach? Yes, seven heavens. There may be more. For other beings, except the human spirit, soul, beings. Who knows? We cannot limit just the absolute infinite beingness and the absolute infinite beingness only to the measures of our human intelligence. So, but enough to study, if possible, the seven heavens. Who has spoken about the seven heavens to the human beings in those centuries who have passed until now? Was it imagination? But again, what is imagination? Was it fantasy? Was there any proof about it? Because just something which has not a practical, a real proof, besides being dangerous, I call it stupid. And of course, these wise ones, these enlightened ones, through these centuries, in all the places of the world, of the planet, have described approximately the same things. Why not exactly the same things? It was their ability of seeing, understanding and interpreting things they have seen. Of course. Now, the Lord Buddha has spoken about the other worlds. Confucius, Lao religion, which means the way. Many other religions. The old Egyptians knew much about the other worlds, especially the so-called psychical worlds, in the lower states of being. And many others. So, that was not a blind belief, but I would say rather a subconscious experience. Now, let us see, to study the human being. Because if we don't know who we are, what we are, what are our abilities, we cannot understand something real. So, we must first study the human being, ourselves, and then study also the worlds. I'll put it more simply. We must know as much as we can about what we call the microcosm, the human being, and the mesocosm, or the macrocosm, which is the world of existence, and of beingness, and of beingness. Because nothing can exist unless in it is not the reality, the beingness. So, we must study now our nature, and the worlds we are living in them, in these worlds. Is that easy? It can be easy if we are not drunk by matter, and by desires, and by illusions. And all the time living even less than subconsciously. Instinctively, maybe. But I don't want to give to the human being just that very low form of expression. Though some of them are living instinctively, instead of living even subconsciously. Now, I have two things. To study ourselves, what we are, and study what are the worlds in which we are living in, consciously, subconsciously, or not being aware of them. So, following the teachings of the All-Enlightened Ones, we say there are seven worlds of existence. And the Son of God, the God-Man Joshua Emmanuel, dehumanized and incarnated directly as God and Man, came to testify the truth about that. He has spoken about the seven heavens. And he described them, of course to his disciples and to the others in his time, he made full descriptions of these worlds. But, who could just write about them? And make people understand? And with what words? How did Joshua Emmanuel succeed? Succeeded just to impress his listeners, and especially his disciples, disciples, healers and others, to know about these worlds, the heavens. Of course, it is ridiculous to speak to them about these seven heavens without proving their existence to them, and showing them how to approach these heavens. And what did Joshua Emmanuel say about these seven heavens? He called them kingdoms. He said the kingdoms of the heavens are in your spirit, soul, ego being. Which means? How? How are they in us, in our ego, spirit, soul being? Of course, that is a macrocosm. Now I say what is written in the Old Testament. And God said, vibrated his will-pleasure to his holy archangels, co-vibrating to his will-pleasure of manifestation, after creating the worlds of existence. Let us create man to our image and according to our likeness. That means to be just as we are. To be a god. Even as a human being, be a god. Not an animal. And so, they say the holy archangels, the lord of the elements, and the holy father, had created the human being, calling him Adam. So, Adam was, is, and will always be the human being, the image and the likeness of God. That means a macrocosm exactly similar to the macrocosm. A microcosm exactly the same as the macrocosm. I'll make it more plain. As the macrocosm has the gross material, heavenly bodies, a human being has his gross material body. And as God has his ethereal world, the human being has his etheric double, the ethereal part of his material body. And as God has created the four- dimensional world, the so-called psychical world, the human being has his so-called psychical body. As God and the holy archangels had created the noetical world, a human being has his own noetical body. And thus, the almighty God and the holy archangels had created worlds beyond the noetical, the noetic and spiritual worlds. The human being has his or her noetical body, noetic and its spiritual self. So, the human being, from this point of view, is the image and the likeness of God. Comparing the microcosm with the macrocosm. We are using the Greek words, not other words. Now, in which other way are we the image and the likeness of God? As the Holy Father has in it, because God is not male or female, maybe it's possible. As the Holy Father, the source of life, has in it billions and billions and billions, beyond numbers, beings. We call it its plurality. So, the human being also has his or her plurality, the personality composed by the elementals, which create the personality of human beings. As our material body has in it atoms, blood cells, so our material body has its multiplicity as well, in various ways. The organs, the blood cells, the tissues. Many, many things. So is our personality, composed, we said in previous lessons, by the elementals, we call them desire or emotion, thought forms, or purely thought forms, and I call them also human demons or human angels, which are composing our personality. So we see the similarity. So, a human being now, today, living either in a civilized world or in any other part of the planet, I don't see much difference. Because a human being is always under the pressure of desires, illusions, passions, weaknesses, whether he is living in an undeveloped country or in a so-called civilized country. All people are under the same pressure of illusions. What do we see now? That the human being, though it has all the qualities and the nature of the divine reality, yet he is not using, consciously, the bodies given to him. He is not living, as we say, according to the will of God. And we see now the human beings living a life not very different from the life of the animals around them. Not to say that some of them are living in still worse conditions. Now, studying the personality of a man, I said, the wise ones all through the centuries have spoken about the soul, about the spirit, and about the personality of a man. Now, they mix the personality with the individuality. They were calling even the personality of a human being as his soul, calling it sinning soul and pure soul. But it's better for us to separate these words. The soul is always pure, it's God. The soul is spirit, soul, self, pure. And what some say and are calling the soul as the personality, because it is manifesting qualities of the soul, that means giving the sense of a self, of a time and place self, which are qualities of the soul, yet it is not our real self, our personality. It is not more our self than it is our bodies, the material body, the etheric double, the so-called psychical body, the noetical body. The noetic is rather part of ourselves, and the spirit, the spirit is our self. But it is not a body, it is rather giving the sense of the body. It is our human form, not dressed in flesh and with clay, as our cross-material body. Now, we have described the human being as it is today. Bodies, so that they think to exist in the world of existence, should have a form, having its divine human form, which is always in the total wisdom of the Almighty and in His divine plan, and its real immortal self, the spirit, soul, self. The spirit, soul, self. Being manifested, the spirit enters in its duality, being spirit, soul, so that it will exist in its state of beingness. It is not necessarily duality, because it is the spirit, self. But what is our self as spirit, self, in all of the absolute realities, oneness, we cannot know. But we can know what we call our spirit, soul, self, having its human form. Brilliant, marvelous, divine form. And I described it yesterday. What is the human form? I said that everything to exist, it should have a form. And the law of existence is a beginning, a starting point, a process, is that what you call it? And then an end to it, or that end is the beginning of some other state of existence, which we can study. So we see now the human being having this human form, dressed in flesh. The human form, dressed in flesh, blood, and the gross matter, starting from the spermatozoon. Growing, growing, growing, growing, growing, growing, growing, to complete a circle of possibilities. Not beyond that. When I say our human form, as spirit, soul, self, is the complete circle of possibilities. Everything existing in it. But what about the appearance we had as human form, each one of us, in our course of living in the gross material world. And we have also the course of living in the psychic world. In the neurotic world. Completing circles, in circles, bigger circles, and in bigger circles, of existence. But enough to speak about our circle of possibilities and existence in the gross material world here on Earth. But that's not enough for a seeker of the truth. Now. The appearance, we know it. We see it. We see pregnancy, we see a woman giving birth, we see a child sucking the milk of his mother, just crawling on the ground and growing, growing, playing, becoming a boy, a nice girl or a nice boy, growing to adults, to young men and women like that. We can see the appearance of a human being. But you can see that each human being has the course of its own appearance. That is what I call the circle of each one's possibilities. Which is in our spirit, soul, self. There. Now it is rather difficult to understand these things unless you practice introspection and enter deeply in using the mind as inspiration. We cannot find better words. Now. We'll describe the kingdom of the heavens. Where? Around us. And around us. But the kingdom of the heavens in us. Is the kingdom of the heavens in us and the kingdom of the heavens around us not the same? Definitely it is not the same. Is the cross material world around us and our cross material body one and the same? Just immaterial? Yes, but it is so different. So we are the image and likeness of God having the kingdom of the heavens in our spirit, soul, being, self having the bodies granted to us by God and the total wisdom. That means the kingdom of the heavens in us in our spirit, soul, ego, self and in our personality also we see it from down up now is our etheric double which corresponds to the ethereal world of the planet. It is our so-called psychical body. I said yes, a mass of mind emotional of emotional nature given to us to shape and create our psychical body. The archetype of the earth of our psychical body is in the eco-fight with us holy metaphor the archangel who has been eco-fight with us. We have it there, the archetype which exercises much influence on us on us. To whom? To the personality. To shape the psychical substance given to her to the archetype through itself itself as what? There is a point just to think deeply as consciousness. Now we touch another point What is consciousness? What is awareness? What can be one day self-consciousness and self-awareness? This is what we study because by studying that, understanding that and exercising that we enter in the kingdom of the heavens in us, in our spirit soul-self and mastering the kingdom of the heavens in us we can enter just by right to the kingdom of the heavens of the fire. That means studying the laws of nature with our cross-material mind using our cross-material body slowly, slowly we can become the masters of the cross-material world and human beings, those subconsciously living have become masters of the cross-material world changing completely the cross-material world building huge buildings many things, doing what not likewise we do to the psychical plane the ethereal plane? No to the psychical plane the so-called psychical plane the second kingdom of the heavens is the world of emotions emotions in our so-called psychical bodies in the psychical world, what it is? Emotions, of whom? It is the mind there vibrating now as the real pleasure so now correspond the emotions desires, though they are dirty in a human being corresponding the real pleasure of manifestation so the so-called psychical world the 49 sub-planes or 7 planes are more real than the cross- material world because in them are working more effectively I would rather say the holy archangels of the elements so we have the world next above it we will not mention that there are doubles of these worlds which are the nautical world how can we reach there? how can we reach in the psychical world? self-consciously can we, unless we develop in our personality and individuality that soul consciousness? no because entering there will be slumbering like somnambulist as 90% of the people are in the psychical world because the time we are living in the cross-material world we are living with our so- called psychical body undeveloped in the so-called psychical world and with our mind body that mass of mind we are using as thoughts in the nautical world but how? to enter is easy because these worlds are in the omnipresence of God we are in them, they are in us but are we aware of these worlds? Joshua Manuel de Christ said that clearly the kingdom of the heavens is in you he didn't take out anyone but not entering the kingdom of the heavens is what counts but how do we enter in the kingdom of the heavens? I have given yesterday an example of a nice park full of good flowers, plenty of things they take their child 10 years of age take another young man, an adult and a scientist, a botanologist now, all of them enter in the park what they will see? what the child will see? what the adult will see and what the scientist will see? that is not the matter entering because we are there it is in us, the kingdom of the heavens is in us and we are in it but what counts is how we should be aware of this kingdom of the heavens because through them we are in them through our material body we are in the cross material world moving about through our psychical body we are in the psychical world moving about like somnambulists sometimes we get certain experiences we call them dreams either good, marvelous, lovely dreams or sometimes nightmares now we have to study all these things so we are living already in all the kingdoms of the heavens which are in us, in our bodies and we are in them with our bodies now what counts is to awaken our petty personality self male or female just to develop it to the level of what I would say our very permanent personality or our individuality our soul and then awakening ourselves to those levels we are using now the mind as consciousness in the various levels of development so what counts is to develop in our present day personality Maria, Kostas, Yannis, Helen develop in these persons just that kind of consciousness now they are using the mind as subconsciousness we have to study what is the subconsciousness they are using now the consciousness as waking consciousness to live self-consciously later where? and in the material world and in the psychical world and in the nautical world in the kingdom of the heavens how should we be sure that this so-called kingdom of the heavens apart from our bodies across material, psychical and nautical do exist of course they do exist the proof we have just to develop our present petty personality in expressing what we call self-consciousness now are human beings now even in the civilized countries living self-consciously no, they all live subconsciously when I say self- consciously I mean to know what and what they are to know things, what are desires, what are emotions what are thoughts and just how to use the mind control desires, emotions see the reactions in their personality of things existing in the cross-material world so the first school and the first classes we have just to go through is the cross- material world we should not expect more before we get our lessons in this class the cross-material world so we should start from the cross-material world entering by introspection in our so-called subconsciousness of our personality study it, learn it study it, learn it what does it mean? see now, using the mind how we were using the mind and what kind of elementals we were using composing our personality I put it more plainly study the reactions which are happening in us by receiving presentations from the other, from the outside world through our senses what they are doing in our personality what they are exciting and just study the whole course what is desire? why? why do I desire having that? knowing that and all that so we have just to study everything concerning our life using the mind now what is the gain? now I find out that I am dual who is using it? is the thinker criticizing the behavior is criticizing whom? himself? herself? even so the so-called egoism of the present day personality so the first thing we gain is to understand and realize our duality it is the first thing that we gain finding out that we are not what we think we are and we are much, much more than what we manifest as a personality tracing now our self-individuality our soul of course it needs much time much, much time, maybe centuries but let us start after all because doing nothing you are nothing but even a step forward is a step forward this is what we have to do someday because how long we will be just under the illusions of the cross-material world we have just to free ourselves from the illusions enter in the reality, in the truth behind the illusions to find out who we are and what we are now I have described many, many things and we cannot do that unless we start checking our way of living the elementals, their nature and quality of the elementals we are creating their influence in our personality in us then in so doing we start separating our self from the shadow of our self which we think is our self we start separating our self from the limit we see in the mirror thinking that we are that self and the mirror is the cross-material world so it needs seriousness decision and observation just to use our divine nature of observing things and using the mind properly now, if we start now from the cross-material world what will happen? we see more clear dreams we think they are dreams, they are not dreams they are experiences in the psychical world what do we see? we see now that we can use the mind in a better way reasoning and making better thoughts the afterthoughts, as people say which are wiser than the first ones which means that we start developing our consciousness in our bodies the so-called psychical body and the nautical body and in the course of time by introspection using our divine powers of using the mind as visualization which is an art a skill which we must have we are developing that expression of the petty time and place self to higher levels transmuting the personality into the individuality starting now to make the dual self in a wise one the result is that you will find yourself better adapted to the so-called psychical and nautical world now where is the psychical and the nautical world? as macrocosm and how is our psychical and nautical body in them? now, the psychical world and the nautical world and all the worlds are not located in a certain place of space but the difference is in the vibrations that means in the various dimensions now, in the cross-material world with our cross- material body and the senses we receive representations, impressions and everything in a three-dimensional way but the psychical world is the world of the four dimensions and the ethereal world of the planet or our so-called etheric body is in between the three and the four dimensions how just to study all that? by observation and using the mind as inspiration and visualization now can one live self-consciously? is that possible? in the psychical world? definitely if he starts living self-consciously as an individuality in the cross-material world he will find himself completely awakened in the psychical world in which level? the psychical world is 49 sub-planes 7 planes in the same space giving different sense of place according to the rate of their vibration what did Joshua Manuel de Cres say about all these words? because you read in the New Testament but not accurately as Joshua Manuel de Cres said because he said, Joshua Manuel in the absolute beingness of my father are many mansions and I go to prepare place for you the sense of place he didn't say in the house of my father even the temples or the churches he said in the absolute beingness of my father are many mansions they go to prepare place for you he said that in Greek and in Aramaic now prepare place for you how? Joshua Manuel de Cres would prepare place for his disciples not only the 12 and the 70 and the other disciples how? they have asked him and he had given a reply that time he said yes, by attuning yourself to me and myself to you you qualify yourself in such a way to take out of yourself the heaviness which not allow you to enter in those levels so I prepare place for you in this way so it means you should adapt your consciousness to mine to enter in the oneness so now describe the psychical plane it's very very very difficult thing to do suppose somebody could ask someone, even a scientist describe me the cross material world can he do that? just give certain information about trees, rocks things like that but can he describe the cross material world even the greatest scientist writing volumes and volumes of books no now just think how one can describe the psychical world which is a world of the four dimensions and explaining to you how you will understand being accustomed to see things as three dimensional things here another great difficulty and describing things in the splendor of the noetical world much much more difficult because this is the world of the five dimensions which means are these worlds not worlds of forms as we have the cross material world of course it is 1 Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom, and your almightiness in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. We said that the absolute, infinite beingness, God, is in its self-sufficiency. It is in need of nothing. What is this self-sufficiency of this absolute, infinite beingness is incomprehensible. But we said that in this absolute, infinite beingness is also its total wisdom, unmanifested yet, and also its almightiness, and the real pleasure to manifest itself in itself, because this absolute, infinite beingness, this absolute, infinite reality is in its omnipresence. There is not any sense of place, space, or anything in which it isn't, this absolute, infinite beingness. Now, that this absolute, infinite beingness has in it, as its nature, the total wisdom, no one can doubt. Because when this absolute, infinite beingness manifests in itself the real pleasure, to manifest itself in itself, that means to create worlds of existence, it must have the means by which these universes will be created. The first manifestation of its total wisdom is that from that moment it emanates from this absolute, infinite beingness, and all the beings co-vibrating with this absolute, infinite beingness, the mind. So we see the mind now as the means by which the total wisdom of this absolute, infinite beingness now, because it is the manifestation of the real pleasure of manifesting itself, manifesting its total wisdom in creating its universes. Universes. How many universes? Who can know? Only what we can know as human beings, even developing in us our nature, divine nature, is the world of existence. But what is beyond the world of existence, in what we call that state, which is no more any kind of world, of beingness, not beingness, nobody can understand. So, now we see, what we know, what the wise ones for centuries found out, is that this absolute, infinite beingness is in its plurality. In it, there are billions and billions and billions beyond numbers, beings. What does it mean, beings? A being is something that always was, is now, and will always be in all eternity. So we separate the word being from the word existing. So, now we see these beings, gods, it's only one god, the father, but in that father god are gods, similar to it, composing its totality. So we see them, all these beings, co-vibrate to the will pleasure of God or Allah, which is a sentence, for manifestation. No, not all of them. Why? Certain co-vibrate and certain they don't co-vibrate. Who can know? Maybe this is in what we call the divine plan. If an architect is calling certain people to work his plans, to become builders, laborers and all that, so it is. It is the fellow who is ruling, controlling the whole world, the world of the existence of the manifestation. Who knows? Nobody knows. You see, so that this will pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness to appear, to be manifested. And I see now the absolute infinite beingness as absolute infinite beingness now, manifesting its will pleasure. And the holy archangels co-vibrating and from them emanates the mind super substance. Now, it emanates the mind super substance to all of them in the same way. Now, we see that this will pleasure of manifestation, we can compare it with the light. It is the light. Life is light. Unless there was the light, the divine light and all the manifestations of light, there wouldn't be life manifested. What it would be? In the beingness? Who knows? Who can even imagine what it is? So, we must just now see life's light. There are two synonyms. So, I see the light. But the light has no color. Yet the light is presenting me all the other colors. Can you see the light and see a color in the light? No. But if you have a prism and the light passes from it, you will see the red light, the blue light, the green light, the yellow light. Now you see the light as colors. So, this divine light, life, which is the nature of these beings in the absolute infinite, now beingness, that light is colorless. Now they present their own color. So, this classifies these beings in the archangelic orders. Why? How? Nobody can say. Not even they. I have put the question to some of them. What makes you be a Michael and you a Raphael? Why do you see this difference amongst us? They cannot see amongst them any difference. But we can see this difference from our human point of view. So, they classify themselves in their archangelic order. And each order or all those beings in each of these archangelic orders is doing perfectly its own work. Different work from the one archangelic order to the other archangelic order. Yet, combining this work of them is giving us the universes. It's giving us the noetic and the super noetic universes. There, there is no distinction amongst them. In the super noetic world, you cannot distinguish and say one of these beings, you are a Michael, you are a Raphael, you are a Gabriel or you are something else. There, they are all the same, similar, colorless, white. Then they get their color. Now, what is the relation between color and sound? Now, what do you understand by sound? I think we don't have any other word to say, except sound. And we find the sound classified in seven kinds and orders. The same light. This is the relationship between the light and the sound. So, expressing their own light. These holy archangels are creating their own sounds. And these sounds, blended together, are creating the universes. So, they don't have hands just to create something. But they are vibrations. So, the sounds and the colors, the light and the sounds, are the means by which the holy archangels, first of all, get their name. Which we can hear. And their work to create the universes. Now, we classify now these archangels as far as we, human beings, can understand. Intelligences. Because these things you will never find in books. You have to live in these great truths. And understand them by developing your consciousness. Your personality to higher and higher levels. And come in contact, in touch with these archangelic orders. They can teach you much. Because they are willing, just their wisdom to convey to the human beings, who start becoming like themselves. Because they are the same as they. And of course, these holy archangels are not seen in a human being. It's a sinful, now wicked personality. But they can see in that personality something which is similar to them. That means the soul spirit. Now, what I know from my own experiences, being in touch with them. They are not souls. They don't express what we call a soul. Though, an ego they do express. An ego means a kind of individuality, expressing its own nature. They have their archangelic egos. And these archangelic egos have never been separated from the absolute infinite beingness. They have never left what we call the oneness. Now, what is the difference between our ego and the egos of all these archangelic orders? Becoming soul selves who enter in the world of separateness. They have never done that. Now, human beings are spirit soul egos. While the holy archangels are simply spirit egos. Not expressing a soul. Now, the difference I know, but it is difficult to explain to you. What is this difference? There is a kind, not of separateness, but of quality, that makes them being in this order, this archangelic order, or in the other one, or in the other one. Though, they don't understand it. They see themselves similar. But I say, from our human point of view, in seeing the creation, we can see a kind of difference. Do they transmit themselves at will, any moment they like, from the one order to the other order? Yes, but for how long? As long as they are pleased to do that. And again, they return to their own archangelic nature. That means, they have in themselves, these holy archangels, what we call the at-one-ment. It is something, of course, we cannot understand. How they can be in the at-one-ment and at the same time in their own nature? At least, I don't understand it myself, but it is so. Why I cannot understand it? Because I am in the world of separateness also. Being a soul, a human ego. Now, are they wiser than we are? Now? Of course, they are now. Definitely. Now, they are all the archangels, in all the archangelic orders, most wise. Because they perform their work according to their nature. Having before them the divine plan and their tasks to do in a perfect way. And in perfect cooperation amongst them. Because they are most wise now. Most wise in their work to create the universes. Of course, the universes are ruled by this total wisdom. First, of the absolute infinite beingness and all the beings in it. Now, when I say absolute infinite beingness, I mean the locus. The manifestation, the expression of the total wisdom and the all-mightiness of the infinite reality. So, now, our nature, as spirit egos, and their nature also, as spirit egos, is observation. Now, it is difficult to understand what I really mean by observation. Can you call it perfect concentration? At the same time, knowing. We don't have words just to express that. But our nature and their nature is what we call observation. We have it as our nature in the human being. But we have to express it and develop it when we develop in ourselves our inner real nature. That's why you don't understand what is perfect observation. But this perfect observation from their side is that that produces, presents the total wisdom with no mistakes. They never make mistakes, the holy archangels, in their work. Because it is their nature and it is in them. Of course, I say words cannot express these conditions of life, especially of the holy archangels. Now, these holy archangels are creating their elementals as we create our elementals. But the elementals of the holy archangels are perfect, creating elementals. There is nothing wrong in that, in their work. And the elementals of these holy archangels, of these super intelligences, are what we call the angels. And the nature spirits. These nature spirits are most wise who can see it. In their manifestation, in the phenomena of life, they supervise and they live in them also. Because I am telling you, every phenomenon of life, in the vegetable kingdom, also in the metals. In the earth, in the rocks, in the crystals. Every phenomenon of life has in it its supervising nature spirit, which is most wise. Most wise in itself or manifesting the wisdom of the ruling super intelligence behind it, which is one of the archangelic orders. Nobody can know. But what we can know is that there is, even in their manifestation, in the vegetable kingdom, in their manifestation, even in the animal kingdom, is perfect and most wise. But we say, we have just to exercise our divine nature of observation, using the mind now, as right thinking, to distinguish and understand this total wisdom. And what we see that, even the cross material world, our world we are living in now, which is the lowest manifestation of life, in it, it is the total wisdom. I say by observation, because I like to see these things. When you develop your consciousness to higher levels, and especially to the self-consciousness, you can come in contact and in touch, not only with these elementals, what we call the archangels, the nature spirits, and the angels, but also with your own, what we call elementals, especially what I will call human angels, the good elementals. And you can control, even dematerialize, so in yourself and in the others, those elementals I will call human demons. But it needs much work, training, and especially at all times, manifesting a perfect, shall I call it concentration, or observation. Better call it observation, to observe everything. Nothing will escape your attention, and nothing will be left without exhausting your thought in understanding what everything is and exists. Now, we said that the mind, these angels, and nature spirits, are using in their total wisdom, what we call in the vegetable kingdom, sensitivity. What I call it in the animal kingdom, sensibility and instinct. There you will find the total wisdom. How can you observe this total wisdom? Now, in the vegetable kingdom, studying, observing, bushes, even the rose bushes, everybody knows what is a rose bush, how to eat it. You see the thorns on it. Why? Why thorns on this bush? And on many, many, many other bushes you see thorns, small, big, bigger, even just like nails. Thorns. Who decided to place those so-called thorns on the bushes? What for? So that the animals, the animal kingdom will not be able to destroy them and eat them. Now, studying the cacti, the kingdom of the cacti. Oh my God, you will be wondering to see the beauty of those cacti, their thorns, many kinds of thorns on it, according to the degree of their protection. You will be amazed. Now, these nature spirits now, giving to those phenomena of life we call cacti and bushes, do they enjoy the life in the sensibility way and in the instinct way of living? They must. Can we human beings come in touch with these nature spirits and understand how intelligent they are? Yes, when you develop in yourself your self- consciousness, not yet the self-superconsciousness, you can come in contact with these nature spirits, provided you can come in contact with the ruling archangel and the angels above them. So, can come. Do they understand us? No, this is the point. Is a nature spirit, now people are calling them gnomes, fairies, and many, many other names. Are they intelligent to understand us? Now, again I speak of my own experiences. Yes, they are, and they are very, very wise. These nature spirits and the angels controlling this kingdom of life in the world of existence. If you show them love, do they love you? Now, I am speaking about the vegetable kingdom. Yes, they do. Of course they love you. Now, there was a time I had about 300 kinds of cacti, and I loved them, and I could communicate with them. They are nature spirits, who are willing, they enjoyed my love to them. They were giving love to me. Now, there is a kind of cactus, very, very sensitive cactus. With small thorns, but if something touches, they pierce immediately, and they become like hooks. Is that what you call them? This kind of cactus. When somebody touches anything, touching it, especially a human being with his hands, it pierces immediately. They become hooks, and they give him a kind of poison, they have in it. Of course, you cannot move away your hands, before having in your hands all those thorns, like hooks. And, of course, that cactus cannot live anymore. It dies. I have succeeded to have that cactus. Myself, the prince Petros of Greece, in Amazonian places, was sending me some of the seeds, and I have succeeded to have it. And from books I knew what kind of cactus it was, that kind of cactus. It was not very big, it was as big as a neck, with many, many, many little things on it. Well, I went to a fellow one day, who was selling flowers. They have seen it big, as big as, just much bigger than an orange, say a watermelon. He told me, look here, don't touch it, because, according to the books, it has these hooks. When you touch them, they enter in you, they give you poison and that. I started laughing. He said, are you sure? I said, yes! This is in the books, and they are very, very careful. And, of course, if they enter in your heart, it will be swollen in your heart. Then that cactus will die. I got it like that in my heart. He said, oh, what are you doing? All this will be in you. I said, are you sure? Yes. Well, I love it, and it loves me, and nothing wrong will happen. Because when it enters there, many hooks, I told them with my mind, no, I love you, leave it, don't do that. Of course, they obey. And after caressing it, he was in despair. Then I took my hands away, and nothing here. I said, nothing! And that will not die, I assure you. It had enjoyed what I have done now, I said. He was looking at me with suspicion. He said, yes, rightly they say you are a Marcus. You must be one, he said, because I know. I said, look here, human beings do not love nature, and nature does not love them. If you love nature, nature will love you. But understand nature, and enjoy nature. Now, love, what is love? Love, in this level, in the cross-material world, love. Do people love phenomena of life much lower than themselves? Say, in the mineral kingdom, we have seen the mineral kingdom, they like the nice stones, and the diamonds, and everything as possessions. But what do they know of these things? Loving them, nothing. Now, in the animal kingdom, do these elementals of the animals, expressing as their way of life what we call instinct, can love a human being? Yes, of course. Nature is ready to love human beings, if the human beings love nature. But, if your vibrations, even subconscious vibrations, you have in them, are hostile to these things, they have to protect themselves from the human beings. And these human beings, nearly all the time, are destroying this phenomena of life. Why? Because they haven't gone beyond the animal instinct of their material body. So, now, we said all phenomena of life are around us, in the world, in the cross-material world. They are expressing, in the way they are living, that use of the mind we call instinct. Now, not the phenomena of life, but the nature spirits and the angels, in them and behind them, are expressing it. How do we understand that? Because our human bodies have this instinct. So, our human bodies are living instinctively. There is nothing in the human body beyond the instinct. The instinct, of course, we have it. And many doctors have distinguished it. You touch somewhere here, you will see the skin just growing without even you noticing it. They made this experiment, the doctors. So, our human material body and all the bodies of the animals in the animal kingdom have the instinct. The instinct, which is governed by what? By whom? Definitely, by the holy archangels who are creating the cross-material body and are sustaining it. Of course, our human material body is under the order of the holy archangels of the elements who have created it, are creating in it blotches, organs, many, many, many things and are sustaining it. So, we said that the life of our material body is different from our life as a petty, time and place personality. But living in that material body, a human being, a common human being, without knowing anything about that human body and to know something you must get a book of anatomy and see and look at it and wonder, but do I have all these organs in my body? Clamps and everything. Who is looking after all those organs in your body to keep your body in good health so that you will live in it? So, by observation and study, concentration and using the mind properly, you can know the truth concerning this site of creation, concerning our human bodies. So, if you do that, in the course of time, concentrating and entering in yourself, one day you will find yourself in conscious contact with the archangels who are working in your body. You are angels in the heavens, as Joshua Manuel de Christ said. Are they hostile to us? Enemies? No. These holy archangels of the creation know nothing except love. They love a human being, being good or even wicked. They are working according to their nature in the divine plan, without using the mind to reason or to take a part in our life. And I gave an example the other day. Suppose you see two people quarreling. Very, very common thing in our human nature. Don't say it's a criminality or there is a better man. Both they have daggers and they have weapons. They like carrying these things with them. And you see them fighting, striking one another, wounding one another, very badly. And others interfere and separate them. And you find both of them wounded. You take them to home, to hospital, to look after the wounds. Of course, we know that in the bodies of these two, the saint and the criminal, the archangels do not care about it. Their work is to close down wounds, join broken bones, and restore health to that fellow. Then you say, well, the same way a saint wounded will be healed, also a criminal will be healed. From the side of the holy archangels, there is not a preference. Because they know only to love and to work, creating and sustaining the material bodies. Now, I say, they don't care so much about the quality of the personality of a human being. No. What they care for is to love the entity, the human being, seeing the child growing. When one grows, just to their measures, they rejoice. That's all they can do. Now, so, these archangels in our bodies have feelings. Feelings. Emotions. Yes, they do have, but not like our feelings. They are very, very, very different. They are feelings from our feelings. In what? In quality. They have feelings. Do they hate? No. Love? Yes. But in a way, not easily to be understood by human beings, who had harbored in their hearts complaints and hatreds. With much difficulty, I could just attune myself to their feelings of love. With much effort, not to have in myself the least complaint against anybody. Do they avoid us? Us, the human beings, the petty, tame and blessed personality of a man, with that heavily wrapped personal self, with the veils of darkness we call egoism. They don't want to see that. They avoid that. But they are in constant contact with our souls and with our spirit. They are. So, to contact these archangels, you must develop in yourself such a kind of consciousness to the level of the self-consciousness, and later to self- superconsciousness. And they rejoice. Coming to you as slaves, you are slaves. Why do this? Archangels keep themselves far from the petty personality of a human being today. Because the human being today, as he is now, is so egoist and so stupid to think that he must dominate over everything. He will dominate over God. Dominate over the archangels. Bargaining in a church with God, just with a counter-paradise. They are so vulgar. The human beings today call themselves pious and good people. Even in those people who think they are good, existence is asking, getting, seizing, catching, dominating. This is what is placing a human being in the world of separateness. Everything must be around their petty, stupid, little time and place personality. It is of so much importance. To them, to nature, to God, no. So, the duty at least of the seekers of the truth is to find the truth concerning life, their own life, who they are, how they should behave in nature, in the lowest, say, status of nature, to be worthy, to be given more, to live consciously and then self-consciously to higher realms in the world of existence of nature. Now, I say, by observation, studying around you, phenomena of life, of the mineral kingdom, of the vegetable kingdom and of the animal kingdom, you will see the total wisdom. As I said, sensitivity, sensibility and instinct, you cannot find anything more in this kingdom. Seeing them, even if you see in all this kind of manifestation of the mind, the total wisdom. You will be wondering, but they, this phenomenon of life, cannot develop what you call conscious thinking. They don't express a self. You have cows, all cows are cows. No cow will say, I. And no sheep will say, I, I am, or any dog. No. This I-ness is what we call the selfhood. And this I-ness, the ego, is God. This I-ness of the human beings and of the archangels are placing these beings now, because we are beings, we are human beings, because the animals all around us are existing entities. They are not beings. They don't have any soul. Now, we see the difference, the way of life. Their life is instinctive and nothing more. The instinct, even in its total wisdom as instinct, is offering them to the human being. The human being is free to use the mind in the right or in the wrong way. No animal can use it in the right or in the wrong way, the mind. Instinct is instinct, nothing more than that. So now we see the human beings. Now, here is our difference from the holy archangels, our brethren in Allah, in God. Using the mind in the wrong way, we are different from them. They use the mind emanating from them in the right way, in creating, sustaining, loving, expressing love. Now, we borrow the mind. We are granted the mind we are using in expressing ourselves as thinking personalities from God. Of course, definitely, the mind is not emanated. It doesn't come out of the personality of a human being. It has to be granted by God. While it emanates, I said, from the archangels, from the legos of the archangels. When a human being reaches the highest levels of its own nature, going beyond the instinct and ruling now the instinct, knowing the subconsciousness, cleaning it in its personality, gaining again its consciousness, the self-consciousness, can the mind emanate now from him or from her? Yes, definitely, it can emanate. But not before. Before, we have to ask this mind, and it will be granted to us as our daily bread. 1- God, Archangels & Human Beings Now, we will talk about Archangelology. What are the Archangels? And what is God? What is the absolute business? God, we will share now, is not from any books. Because no books have ever written anything about the Archangels. Why? Because people didn't have direct knowledge on this subject. They mentioned the books, the scriptures, about the Archangels. But no one ever said anything about the Archangels, or even the angels. They mentioned in the books, in the holy scriptures, about God. But no one described anything about this infinite beingness. Now, is it because they didn't dare to it? Maybe. But at least they could say something. At least to speak about the qualities of God, of the Archangels, and of our spirit ego. Who is God? So, to speak about these things is very difficult. Very, very difficult. But, again, to keep silent, it must be stupid. If I ask somebody to describe the sun, what can one know about the sun? We can imagine what is the sun. And our science knows that the sun is a heavenly body, burning, emanating heat and light. And they say that it is a million times bigger than the planet Earth. So they say, what can we know of the sun? Not being scientists, and having our telescope, and the means just to detect the sun. We can see it rising, just like a disc, giving us the heat. It gives us warmth, and giving us light. Yes, at least we can know that. We can feel the heat of the sun. If somebody would describe us, what is the sun? Saying that, yes, it's a sphere, it is rising in the sky, and we can get warm, it's giving us light. He is right. Yet, he is not absolutely right. Because the sun is a billion times bigger than the planet Earth, and in the Earth. Relatively speaking, it's just like a little macro, the children are playing with. The sun is as big as the Venus building. Anyhow, we can describe the sun. Even by saying that the sun is a sphere, a disc, just like a plate, rising in the sky, giving us light and heat. So far, we can speak about the sun. Likewise about the infinite beingness. What can we know about the infinite beingness? Just having the same thing in mind, we can speak about the infinite beingness. But we must be giving something accurate. Of course, I said the truth in saying that the sun is giving us heat and light. The dimensions, we should not attempt it. What can we say about the absolute beingness? In its self-abundance, my friend, very, very little. But to keep silent, it would be stupid. We must say something. We must try to understand something about the absolute beingness and its expression in what we call infinite beingness. Infinite will to express itself in itself as the locus and as the Holy Spirit. At least, we can know something. Locus means expression. Holy Spirit, again expression, dynamically. What can we know as human beings about the infinite beingness? That the infinite beingness and the locus and the Holy Spirit is the total wisdom, total love and total force of power. These three things we can understand by the symbol of a triangle. You can see in the symbol of life there. You see the triangle. Inside the triangle, we see a cross. What is the cross now? Is that the Christian symbol of sacrifice? It is that also. But for us, the symbol of life, it means something else. It is the balancing of the four elements. The upper part of the cross is the etheric or mental side, which is the ether vitality. The other side, left or right, doesn't matter. One side is water, the other side is fire. The lower part of the cross is the material plane. So for us, the cross means also the four elements and balancing the four elements. We are sure of the four elements. We have them in the material plane. So, who are the masters or the lords of these elements? Can we know? Of course we can. The lord of the vitality, you may call it in the human body ectoplasm, or vitality, etheric vitality, is a raffia. Its color is violet. You see it there on the symbol of life. The red color, blood red color, is fire. And the lord of fire and light is micro. The bluish color with all its hints, its space near the earth, around the earth, air and water, the element of water, is governed by Gabriel. The matter, the material world, is governed by a secondary archangel, if we can call him an archangel, which is Shammael. I think it's very little we are allowed to say about Shammael, because there should not be any connection between human beings and Shammael, if not being masters. He is the lord of separateness. People may call him the devil, but that isn't true. It's a necessary law for the creation. Now, what's a human being? What can a human being be? When we say human being, what must we mean? The present day personality? The soul, ego, self, or the spirit, ego, self? And these three, as long as a man is living in a material body. It's one ego, with three expressions. Now, as an ego, is he God? Yes, definitely. The ego is God. As ego spirit, as an ego soul, and as the shadow of the ego. So, again ego, which is constantly changing as a material body, as a psychical body, and as a mental body. These three together are making what we call the present day personality. But, the present day personality, these three bodies with the three doubles, plus the soul ego, is making what we call the permanent personality, which will be saved. It is the mortal part, which will become immortal, and the perishable one, which becomes imperishable. Perishable means in constant change. As a material body, as a psychical body, that means the body of the emotions, and as the neurotic or neurotic, or mental body as we call it, the body of thoughts. So, we see now the human being as a being, eternal God, and as an existing entity. Now I'm using a different word, the entity, which is the present day personality plus the permanent personality. Which will become immortal, because it is immortal in a sense, but in constant change. It gives the idea of not being immortal. It's imperishable, yet it seems to be perishable, since we are in that illusion we call time. We can repeat it, it's an illusion. And under this illusion, the imperishable seems to be perishable, and the immortal seems to be, or rather, the immortal seems to be mortal, because we see it in time as changing. Well, I'll give an example. When we come just to study ourselves and our behavior, rather, as a present day personality every night, before sleeping, and you bring in the surface of the subconsciousness into what we call consciousness, an event that happened during the day. You bring it up. So now you see time in a different way. You can see the event, succession of events, just as everything happened. Now, in what kind of time now you are seeing things? You can see them very, very slowly or very, very quickly. You have time in other dimensions. People are using it without just trying to study these things. So, you bring to the surface of the memory, again I say time, space, all the events have happened in the sense of space. A street, or an office, a house. Now, you bring again all those things in which street now you are in, just studying it, but in another dimension. So, what do you say for this thing you are doing now? Is that intelligence? Can you call it intelligence? The animals cannot do it. Using the mind, bringing the elementals in the surface, now you understand it after we gave the lesson about the subconsciousness, and the elementals, yes, so the elementals are living, and you can bring them in the surface any time you like, and see them, and study them, and just judge your behavior, and see what influence these elementals had on you during the hours now you are studying by remembering them. But now who gets the conclusions? Who gets the decisions now how to behave next day? You, who? The present day personality of that moment. God is now the so-called present personality before some hours. Has changed. You say, but no, that's me. No, that's not you. You are now the one who remembers that personality of yours before some hours, and how that personality, or never mind that you say, that's me, behaved. You now are judging, studying that behavior of yours. That time you call past. You have been a present moment personality. What are you now in relation to that which is past? That is the perishable which will become imperishable. That means all that elementals of yours, and the sum total of the elementals forming it, that you are calling you as an intelligence, as consciousness, is what you call the perishable, which in a sense is imperishable, but because it is under constant change, you call it perishable. That means nothing of you is lost. Everything is recorded in the cosmic consciousness. Everything that you have lived is living. That is a matter of bringing it into the surface. Now it's something I tell you, which very few know. The past incarnations, you can contact them in the cosmic consciousness. What is a past incarnation? From the moment of the conception until the moment of passing over inside the circle of possibilities and probabilities, because maybe the circle of probability will not be the same as the circle of possibilities. Maybe you have passed over prematurely. Yet you contact in the cosmic consciousness an elemental, the sum total of elementals of that life, you call that the present day personality, no, past personality. Now if you contact that elemental, is that elemental living? Yes, it's living, because it's composed of mind, and mind is not a dead substance, but life itself. So all our elementals are living. All the elementals we are calling past lives, now are living in the cosmic consciousness. They live their own life, as we live now the double life. They live a single life, as the life of the elemental. Now we are living a double life. The life of the elemental of our present day personality, a name where you are feeling and thinking, and yet living as ecosystems. This you realize after you become the master of the emotions and of the thoughts. But again, what is composed of a personality? Because we said that the infinite beingness has its plurality. We have our plurality also, and that's intelligent beings and entities existing, and that's bodies. You have the material body, you have billions of blood cells, billions of cells, other types of cells, and all those are composing what we call the various organs. The material body. And if you study the material body, we are calling it microcosm. It's just the same as the macrocosm. Also this is true for our psychical body, and our mental body, and the etheric doubles. That's true. So, the researcher after truth has much work to do, to investigate the truth, the relative truth, around his own entity and being, to different extent. I said in the morning that we are gods, or spirit, ego, self, and soul, ego, self, immortal, eternal, unchanging. And we exist now as an entity, as a human being. Is the soul equal to a human being? Of course not. Now we come again to the scriptures. Many are reading the Old Testament. They pass it, just like that, without just caring to think over these things. God said, said, expression. Did he say anything in words? Not necessarily. The expression is not only words or sounds. Thoughts are expressions. And God said, let there be light. And light, what is it? What is light, and what is darkness? We enter in the world of the opposite. What they call darkness, is a misconception. In the infinite beingness, there is not such a thing as darkness. Because God is light. And the Locust is light. In the creed of Thoth we say, I say that in Greek, I say that in Greek, Can you say it in Greek? In the German language? We are calling God light. And we call Christ light from light. So, what is light? Light. God is light. But what the light? The sunlight. And the sunlight. But that's not all. Because when we say light, we mean much more than the sun. Is light visible? No. Yet it's light. Even the sunlight, travelling in space, is not visible. You cannot see light. Unless it strikes on a solid thing just like a star and is reflected to you. And even so, you don't see the light. You see the star, you see the reflection. When you see the sky at night, it's dark. The light is travelling in space. Yet you cannot see it. Unless it strikes on a surface and is reflected. So we can see what we say light. When that thing as light emanates from a material object, a sun, or is reflected to another celestial body and returns to us. We cannot see light. We can see reflection of light. We cannot see the infinite beingness, but we can see its reflection. We cannot see life, but we can see the living forms. That's why they call light from light. What's life now? Infinite beingness. What is life in us, as phenomena of life? Beings of living forms all around us. So we can detect infinite beingness. Life being reflected in what we call living forms all around. In the creation. We can see it in what we call the words of the various dimensions, the heavens, the seven heavens. So, researcher of the truth should use his intelligence to pierce to the truth. Concerning what? Himself as a living entity, as a human being, and his eternal beingness, soul, and ego spirit. This should be the research after the truth. And how? We shall study the self of ours, starting from the bottom, from the material body, from the material plane, and knowing what we are so that we'll know later who we are, what we are, as an entity in the world of the opposites, of the material plane. A most wisely built up body, supervised by whom? We are human. We are becoming a man. Obey the idea of man, the heavenly man. Even Christ as Jesus, as Joshua, called himself the son of man. So, what are we as human beings, as, say, an entity living in a material body, in a psychical body, and in an ethical or mental body? That is our present-day personality, a composite entity, not me. Now I'll tell you how it is, so that we step in the archangelology. Any human being, as an ego spirit, is an archangel, belonging in the order of the authorities. This is a kind of order of the archangels. So, it says in the holy scriptures, and God said, let us create man to our likeness and image. To whom he said that? To the holy archangels. He said that to its plurality. Now, if you meet an archangel, any archangel of any order, and ask him, what are you? He will give those vibrations which will be translated by you as God, and he is right. Archangels are Gods, but Gods, we are also, as spirit egos, as I said, every human being is an archangel. Now, what is the difference between us and the archangels? We have billions, billions number of Michaels, billions of Gabriels, billions of Raphaels, billions of archangels of any other order. The same way we have billions of human beings. Now, there is a difference. Knowing an archangel of fire and light, as Michael, you know, every Michael, because their system, the church is calling them the system. So, one Michael is all the Michaels, according to the vibrations, and being lords of light and fire. All Gabriels are one, yet there are billions of Gabriels. All Raphaels are one, though there are billions of Raphaels. When the infinite being has said, let us create man according to our likeness and image, he didn't mean to create one man, one human being, but a human race. So, for each man in his body, psychical body, nautical body, is one Michael, one Gabriel, one Raphael, one Guria. Yet, attuned to, with all of its order, there is not the law of separateness in the archangelic orders. Well, for the human beings, not two men as present personalities are the same. Because we are living in the world of the separateness, as human beings. This is maybe what the church is calling the form of man. Now, time and space. It's an illusion that human beings as entities understand, but it does not exist in reality. Two archangels of any order know what is time, they say now. And after some time, you tell him, what is time? Now. What's that now, in time? It is now. He knows what is the eternal now. So, they cannot understand what is past, present, and future. They know the eternal now. Human beings can know what is eternity by knowing what is time. That's the ring the father gave to the prodigal son, returning back. A ring which is a symbol of eternity. Because infinite beingness is motion. There is no right to motion, there is no beginning, there is no end. Is the human being or the human archangel returning privileged? I say, yes. Of course he is. This is what really makes him realize that he belongs to the order of the archangels we call authorities. So, let us say the descent of man into matter. We said, matter is mind solid. Everything is mind. So, when an archangel, the orders of the authorities, seeks the desire, which is the desire maybe of the infinite beingness, to project for incarnation, he is definitely accompanied by a metatronius, an archangel of the infinite. The metatronus. Why? Who knows? Who can know? Even the metatronus doesn't know. But, accompanied by the metatronius, this echo fight becomes one with that. So, we have the coin with two sides. The one side with the head is the metatronus. The other side, showing the value, is the present day personality. The different value, each coin. The clean side is the metatronus. We call it dirty side, which has to be clean. The metatronus is the present day personality. Now, on the coin, what is our echo spirit self and our soul self? The coin, the whole coin. Now, when an echo spirit of the authorities, accompanied by a metatronus, starts, then we hear the words of the infinite beingness, let us create man to our own likeness and image. I said, to whom he said that? To Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel, and then one from each order starts building the new entity's mental body. At the same time, the psychical body, the material body. In time, which time? Now, they are working in the sense of time, but they don't understand. What they do is super-consciously in the eternal now. That means constant work on the circle of possibilities. So, the holy archangels are the circle of the possibilities for the human race. Circles, many, many circles on one circle of possibilities. One circle of possibilities for each human being. Many circles of probabilities concerning every one of us. Probabilities. You may not give the whole round on the circle. You may step out at any point. The law of possibilities is unchangeable, constant, and that's in what we call total wisdom of the infinite beingness. Everything is in the infinite beingness. The absolute ruler is the infinite beingness. The mind in our head, the seizure, is the infinite beingness. The two hands obeying the orders is the Christos, the Lord God, and the Holy Spirit, and the holy archangels. What is Michael giving to the human body? The work of the archangels, Michael, Capri, and Raphael, is giving us the red, warm blood. It's their work. Now, we have the skeleton, the bones. Different kind of atoms. Those are created most wisely by the daughters of the Balancer, that's Uriel, by Samuel, the Lord of the Earth, because the bone is just like stone. It's material. But then we have in the human body the various organs, composition of the elements, heat, light, water, call it magnetism, energy, just to keep a human body working, living in good health. Who is just working to build a human body? Definitely the archangels. In us, a Michael, a Capri, a Raphael, a Uriel, and still other workers in it, the Cherubs, and the Seraphs, and many, many others. How do I know it? Reading it in books? No, by coming in contact with them, and knowing them directly. Maybe other masters did not dare reveal these things. I don't see the reason why Yohanan will not speak openly. Why not? It's time that people should know the whole truth. Know the truth, and the truth will liberate you from ignorance. 1- How to become master of Time and Circumstances Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Who taught you that? Who taught you this kind of prayer? Yes, but who taught it? From where you got it? This is the same prayer at the time of Christ. Christ was giving this prayer in Aramaic and in Greek. How did it come to you? Just all this motion, because the prayer he had given, Our Father, who art in heaven, Abed-Matei Shmestaya, in Aramaic. All these movements were given by Joshua the Christ. And they have meaning. But I am wondering how it reached to you. Because it is the same prayer. Some other time we will do it in the Aramaic language. Through these motions. Yes, please. Go on. You sing, you sing. No, no, it was the prayer. That's okay. We say that in the Greek language. We say that now the prayer in the Greek language. Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, Jesus, was an Essener. Essener meant Greco-Israelite. The language Christ was speaking, it was the Greek language of its time. And also the Aramaic language. Now I say that in the Greek language as Joshua Emmanuel the Christ was saying it. Father, I am in heaven. Your name be glorified. Your kingdom come. Your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Jesus Christ came and spoke. He said, everything that happens, happens and will happen in the ages. The spirit of truth. The treasure of goods and of life. And cleansed us from all evil. And save us from the evil of our souls. Amen. God is always the absolute infinite reality. Whatever is, is the absolute infinite reality. It is the everlasting life. That means God. But because during the past, past and many centuries, the human beings in their ignorance, they have created many false gods. Even today the word God is tempting many scientists and many people. Even today the word God is tempting many scientists and many people. And because they need the word God, they give it names that no one can deny. We call it the absolute infinite beingness. Absolute infinite beingness. What is the absolute infinite beingness? No human being can comprehend. Except that this absolute infinite beingness is in its self-sufficiency. Need of nothing. It's life. But what is life? Before being manifested, who can say? We can say it is the spirit selfhood. Another characteristic of the infinite beingness. The absolute infinite selfhood. The absolute infinite selfhood. Which means self- awareness. How can we be sure about that? Because besides the self-sufficiency of the infinite beingness, because besides the self-sufficiency of the infinite beingness, in its plurality, many billions and billions of beings in it, another characteristic is its will-pleasure for manifestation. another characteristic is its will-pleasure for manifestation. Which means selfhood. That means the absolute infinite selfhood. Self-awareness. Absolute infinite selfhood. In billions and billions and billions of manifested phenomena of life. In billions and billions and billions of manifested phenomena of life. Absolute infinite selfhood. So now we see the absolute infinite beingness. Now we see the absolute infinite selfhood. Also the absolute infinite beingness. Also the absolute infinite selfhood. In this absolute infinite selfhood, after the manifestation of the creation, we see the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. There is nothing beyond its control. How can we be sure about it? Even studying any of the phenomena of life in the material world, we can see the total wisdom of the all-mightiness in its form, kind, growth. And the absolute infinite all-mightiness in the circles of possibilities for each phenomenon. How many billions and billions and billions of phenomena of life on the material only plane, the material plane, is one heaven. Now, what is the material plane? Everything exists in a form. The planet, the solar system, the galaxies, the galaxies, all the galaxies, is one heaven. The mind, matter, and we have, according to the human intelligence, seven heavens, seven worlds of manifestation, seven worlds of existence. So we see now two things, beingness, everlasting, eternal, and the worlds of existence, the worlds of change, the worlds in which we see this change, the phenomena of life, the total wisdom and the all-mightiness, and I use now the word God. Whether many people like it or not, God is and exists. He is absolute infinite beingness and absolute infinite beingness. Er ist das absolute unendliche Sein und die absolute unendliche Seinsheit. And also being and existing as the Logos, the El Shattai, humanized into Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. No. Before the humanization and the materialization of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, that humanized Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, did not exist. Of course he existed in the total wisdom of the beingness. What did he say? Before the earth and mountains had been formed, I am. So, Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, a young man of less than 33 years old, when he said that, yet as El Shattai, the Logos, he said, before the earth, the mountains and anything existing, I am. Not I was. I am. He said, before the earth and mountains had been formed, I am. Not I was. I am. In the eternal present. The eternal now. Because at all times, now and in the future will be a now. Because at all times, now and in the future will be a now. That is the expression of the selfhood. So, we mentioned about the first heaven. We mentioned about the first heaven. The mind matter. We spoke yesterday also of the second heaven. Which is the ethereal universe. Everything material has its ethereal counterpart. Every material thing has its ethereal counterpart. A whole world of mountains, trees, water, seas, and of everything existing on the material plane. Our planet earth has its ethereal counterpart. Which is in it, on it, and many hundreds or thousands of kilometers around it. This is the second heaven. Of our planet. I say, every material thing has its ethereal counterpart. Every other heavenly body. No, the third heaven. The third heaven is the mind emotion. Which mistakenly we call it the psychical plane. This is a world, mesocosmically concerning the planet, in the earth, on the earth, and around the earth many thousands of kilometers away. But in this third heaven, of all the heavenly bodies, each one has its own. Never touching one another. This is the world beyond. Which by mistake we call it psychical world. This world has its counterpart. Its ethereal part. Which is the fourth heaven. Then we have what we call the noetical world. Every material and psychical thing has its noetical and so our planet. In the planet, around the planet, and everywhere now. All the heavenly bodies are in the noetical substance. Now I have one word, noetical, everywhere, in the sense of space and place. And now I have the sixth plane, the sixth heaven, the counterpart of this noetical world, which is again everywhere. It is the etheric double of the noetical world. It is the noetic plane. And the seventh heaven? The spiritual. Spiritual. Not noetical. Spirit, Geist. We don't have any words in German. Now, what is this world? It's our real nature. It is what I said yesterday, our spirit body. It is a world. It is a world of causes and forms. It is a world of causes and forms. Principles and forms. I know these words. By personal experience. You cannot find all these things in books yet published. And I am wondering why all those who reach those planes did not dare to reveal them, except Joseph Emmanuel the Christ, who spoke of the seven heavens in teaching the Sefer Yetzirah, in teaching the Sefer Yetzirah, which means the teaching on the creation. So, we spoke mesocosmically now, and partly macrocosmically, concerning the noetical and the noetic. The common worlds. Are there no more worlds? Of beingness? Yes. Of existence? Who knows? The human intelligence cannot reach so far. The human intelligence cannot reach so far. The mind ocean is boundless. When asked by certain disciples, intelligent ones, about further than the seven heavens, about further than the seven heavens, Joseph Emmanuel replied, Did you understand and comprehend the human and the material things? And you want to know the heavenly things? And you want to know the heavenly things? At a certain time you will know. Nobody can know about the boundlessness of God. Nobody can know about the boundlessness of God. Now again we return to the Old Testament, to the Torah. We return to the Old Testament, to the Torah. It says, And God said, vibrated its will pleasure to the Holy Archangelic Orders, who had co-vibrated with the Absolute Infinite Beingness, the El Shaddai Logos. Let us create man to our image and according to our likeness, to our image, that means of all the heavenly worlds. that means of all the heavenly worlds. And according to our likeness, he will be God, as we are. he will be God, as we are. That is clear. And they created man to the image of God and according to its likeness. and according to its likeness. Which means, a human being, as Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said, the kingdom of the heavens is in you, the kingdom of the heavens is in you, in your nature. That means, as a human being, you have a human body, a material body. The first heaven. You have an etheric double. The second heaven. You have an emotional body. The third heaven. You have the etheric double of the psychic body. The etheric double of the psychic body. The fourth heaven. You have a noetic body. The fifth heaven. And you will have the counterpart of the noetic body. The noetic body. And the seventh is the spirit body. Beyond that no human intelligence has reached as yet. What are the archangels? Of all the heavenly orders. Just like God. Governors of all the worlds. Let us create man to our image and according to our likeness. That's clear. But each archangelic order got its own nature. To work on the divine plan according to God's and their own total wisdom and all-mightiness. Yet always speak in the oneness with God. If you ask any archangel of any order who are you? Of course he will vibrate in the natural way of its kind giving no name. Yet those vibrations give sounds and you hear the word Machael. Gabriel. Raphael. Urael. This is their name by their vibrations. And if you put them the question do you know what is God? Each one will say I am God. Rightly because they have never gone outside of the oneness. Which means that all the archangelic orders are in atonement with the Absolute Infinite Beingness. Only the human being has been in atonement separated as a personality only. Because as spirit souls we are in the oneness. But as human beings having a name male or female we think we have been separated. Without being separated. Because we wouldn't live if we were separated. Though we are in the oneness of the Infinite yet we feel separate. Each one feeling that he is alone. And this is the cause of the misery and the confusion of the human beings. So the kingdom of the heavens is in our nature and in our existence. That's what Jesus Emmanuel the Christ said. And he said that we should as personalities as persons enter and know the kingdom of the heavens which is in our nature in our spirit, soul, ego. in our spirit, soul, ego. That means enter again in the oneness. Because you are one with the Infinite Beingness. So we have described now the microcosm. Our bodies and our nature. And we have described the macrocosm and the mesocosm. The world of existence and the eternal beingness. I think we made that clear. Now, Jesus Emmanuel the Christ described the kingdom of the heavens. Kingdom. One kingdom of all the heavens. The kingdom of the heavens. Giving parables. By parables. He said the kingdom of the heavens resembles to a seed of mustard. That's smaller than the head of a pin. In it describing the law and the circle of possibilities that means the kingdom of the heavens in it. He said it resembles the kingdom of the heavens. You plant it. It gets water. Light. Best and growth. Becoming a tree. Under its branches the birds are singing. He said the seed of mustard. So he had described the circle of possibilities. Shall we say that the circle of possibilities is the kingdom of the heavens? No. The expression of the kingdom of the heavens is in that. Because the circle of possibilities has many, many, many circles of probabilities around that little seed. It is in the seed of every other phenomenon of life. Of the vegetable kingdom. There you can see the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. Nothing can escape from its circle of possibilities. Only blind in the mind cannot see that. And this is only on the gross material world. What about the other worlds and the other kingdoms? No. In the material world in the ethereal world we have the reflection of the forms and the phenomenon of life. It is the characteristic of the mind matter the form. And the ethereal world? The so-called emotional or psychical world is it a world of forms? No. The characteristic of that kind of mind substance is not the form. But it is a world of forms reflected by the noetical plane passing through it on the material plane. So, in the so-called psychical world which has 49 sub-planes there are mountains seas, lakes everything that is on the material world and many, many other things more. But that is not the characteristic of that substance. But it is the characteristic of the noetical world. So, in the noetical world which is more light there is really the world of forms. And in the noetical world the world of causes creating forms but entering in one of the causes' ideas you can see anything concerning that form. In God you call it the eternal now. Unfortunately there are no words to convey to you this great, great, great splendor of the creator to enter there. You have by attunement now of your personality to your spirit soul to enter in what you call super self-consciousness. Well, that's possible for a human being as a person to reach those states without losing his identity even his time and place name or the contrary. Entering there you will remember all the names who had in the past and all the experiences. That's why you call it self-super-consciousness. Now, I repeat what Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said the kingdom of the heavens is in your nature as the permanent atom in which is your spirit not Christ the spirit, soul, self your being the spirit self Now, another parable of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ There is not was, is it is a woman who had mixed three measures of flour had mixed them and the three became leaven eatable began to grow became bread what are these three measures of flour and who is this woman our personality mixing the material body the emotional body and the noetical body with their counterparts it made life as a phenomenon of the human being the human being so the personality has done that but what is the personality now first of all in the personality of every human being good or bad sad or criminal is the spirit, soul, life this is the woman who had mixed the three measures of flour you have to scrub them until one becomes a proper human being but this woman had to do that work to mix the three measures of flour which means everybody as a personality has to work to mix the mind matter with the mind emotions know them and control them just mix them not let them go here and there and the mind now as thought and reasoning to create a reasonable human being this is the meaning of this parable 1- In Reverence for the Lords of Host, Karma and Life Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Today we shall see what is a human being, what we are. Of course, we have double nature. The human and the divine nature, as human beings. You have double nature. We are spirit, soul, ego, selves. Immortal, gods. We are the everlasting life. A spirit, soul, ego. Yet, we are also human. And the human being is created. Created by whom? We must see the divine plan. First, it has been created through the total wisdom in what concerns the human being and the real pleasure of the infinite, absolute beingness. So, we are and we exist to different states of things. It is everlasting, immortal, beyond time. In the world of existence, there is a beginning and an end. It might be that end, the beginning of something else. Because everything in the absolute, infinite beingness, life is motion, vibrations, expression. This is how we are understanding life. But is that the real life? So, we have also, in starting life, to see two things. The everlasting life, which is the absolute, infinite beingness. And we shall see also, the life manifested, expressing the real pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness, becoming as the absolute, infinite beingness. Then we have the locus, the manifestation, the expression of life. So, I have life now, manifested. What is the absolute, infinite life, the real life? Not human intelligence can understand except that it is everlasting. Only that he can know what is life. Though we are the life as spirit, soul, ego beings, we understand ourselves by reflection, by the image we are casting in the mirrors of the world of existence. In the noetic, of course, the psychical, the emotional, and the cross-material worlds. So, as human beings, we belong to the worlds of existence. As divine, God, spirit, soul beings, we are in the absolute, infinite beingness as a spirit, ego. We are in the absolute, infinite beingness as a soul, reflecting a shadow on the worlds of existence, which is the human being. But now, who created the human being? Because a human being, as all other things manifested in the worlds of existence, are creations. They are created. By whom? The creators. But who are these creators? So, we know now the plurality or the multiplicity of the absolute, infinite beingness. You can know the various orders of the archangels, gods, the creators. Now, as human beings, we are related to them. Because they are the creators of our bodies, of our cross-material body, of our etheric doubles, the etheric double of the material body, of our psychical body, and the etheric double of our psychical body. And our nautical body, and the etheric double between the nautical and the nautical body. So, we have three bodies in the human form, and three etheric doubles. Now, the etheric doubles. Why? Are the bodies not enough? Must we have also the etheric doubles? And what does it mean, the etheric doubles? To have something, I must have the mould of it, in which it will be constructed. So, to have a material body, I must have a mould. Is that a mould? In which it will be constructed. And this mould is the etheric double. It is a mistake to think that some systems think that the etheric double is the reflection of the material body. No! It is the mould in which the material body is constructed. And it is under the authority of the Logos, of the Holy Spirit, and of the Archangels. It is not under our authority. We are living in a material body by grace and not by right, because we know nothing about it. Others are constructing it, others are looking after it, and we are living in it. So, the Holy Archangels are supervising and have authority over the material body through its etheric double. The work starts in the etheric double to have an effect of it, the creation of the material body. Now, what is the form of this etheric double? Multiple. Definitely, the mould is the form. But which form? Of the whole material body? Of the organs? Of the cells? So, it is not one mould they have in the etheric double, but many, many, many, many forms. The form of the atom, in it, in the material body, of the cell, of each organ. Each organ has its own form, its own way of functioning. Yet, we have the etheric double of our material body. So, that collective form, having many other forms in it, and just see, working perfectly. All the organs in the material body are working perfectly, so that we have what we call a perfect cell. So, the whole work starts from the etheric double. Now, I'll give more clearly this. Before the creation of the human being, we said, we were, and we are even now, spirit egos. Did we leave the absolute infinite beingness? No. Only one ray of our divine self is coming down. We are already in the absolute infinite beingness, spirit gods. That's our real self. The everlasting, immortal self. But, passing through the real pleasure of the infinite beingness, to the words of the beingness of the locus, for the manifestation, we enter in the divine plan. We enter in that state we call the locus. Then, that ray of our spirit ego self gets a form. The human form. And we are becoming ego souls. What is now that ego soul? Our soul. We are the soul. And we have bodies. In relation to the spirit ego self, the same. The same in quality, not in quantity. I'll give a poor example. Suppose I have an open window. I have this room. It's an open window. And the light from the sun comes through that window on the floor. Now, the light from the sun to the window and the light from the window to the floor is the same. No obstacle in between it. But now, I see on the floor a square light or a triangular light, depends upon the shape of the window. Though the quality of the light passing, coming from the sun and passing from the window to the floor is the same. So, our soul is immortal God. It is the same as our spirit ego soul. Now, all religions, especially the Christian religions, speak about the spirit and the soul without defining it. I think it's better just to define it. The ego spirit and the soul ego are the same. It's God. Immortal. Everlasting. What about the light on the floor now? The human being is there. So, the light on the floor has the shape of the window. So we have our human form. We, as human beings, are the light on the floor. But what's now this light on the floor? What's its relation with the light coming from the window down and from the sun to the window? There is much difference in the light. Now, I have the light flat on the floor. The other side, I have the light raised from the window to the floor. Then raised from the sun to the window. Now, what is the human intelligence now? We are expressing now the light on the floor, on the surface, not more than that. This is what I will call the common human intelligence. The common human consciousness. But is that human common consciousness not able to ascend and be at the same time on the floor and yet travel on the rays, become the rays of the sun? Of course, because the light is the light. So it is flat on the floor, or whatever it is. Coming from the sun, the light is always the light. So, this is our relation as human beings with ourselves, our soul. That's what I said yesterday, that even in the human being, in our bodies, our present day personality is God. God covered with clay, with earth, and with the mind substance, the vibrations of which we call emotions, desires, and many other things. Then thoughts. So, studying all these things, I reached a conclusion that I am not all that. I am not the floor. I am not even the consciousness on the floor or through that. What am I? Christ said that in Greek and in Aramaic. In Greek he said, when he was asked by the Pharisees, who are you? He said, I am I. And in Aramaic he said, I am what I am. That what now is our real existing self, in time, in expression, and in place. Now we come to another point. What is consciousness? Now we can study what is human intelligence expressing what we call human consciousness. But is that all? Is that what we call waking consciousness? Which is the privilege of every human being everywhere on the planet. Which for me is a kind of subconsciousness. Waking consciousness is not what we call the self-consciousness. What is this thing we call consciousness? This is what a seeker of the truth tries to find, to know it, assimilate it, and feel it is part of himself to express it. You have consciousness in various degrees of expression. We have mentioned certain kinds of this kind of consciousness. The instinctive consciousness, the subconsciousness, the waking consciousness, let us call it the self-consciousness, studying the human nature. But that is not all. Our real self-consciousness is the soul ego consciousness and further our spirit self- consciousness. So we have this what we call consciousness which is not again our self, it is our expression in the words of existence. I think it is rather difficult to understand all that with words. You have to experience them in making certain exercises in introspection, observation, concentration and meditation. But on the correct lines, because people are using subconsciously, not to say unconsciously, the mind in the wrong way. We have just to use their mind as light in the proper way, so that we will know what is our soul self beyond its reflections, beyond the image and likeness of God, to understand what is our real self, God. Now, we made the description. When a spirit, ego self, decides to reflect one of its rays to the words of existence, it means that it is accompanied by a ray of the archangelic orders we call thrones. And that ray is our archangel, guardian angel, that accompanies our spirit, ego self, becoming one with our ego, so that we live as human beings. So, we have from this point again a double nature, our being self and the ego fight, being of the Metatronios, which is our self also, being ego fight, yet it keeps its own purity. So, why? This is the real pleasure of the infinite being, and it says in the Bible, and God said, let us create man to our image and according to our likeness, just the same as we are. As the locus is and as the holy archangels in it are. And so, the Lord of the elements co-vibrate with this real pleasure of the El Shataih, the locus, to create a human being. But, according to the divine total wisdom, everything is there as the archetypes, which are in the authority now of the guardian archangel, the Metatronios, ego fight to our soul now consciousness. Perfect. On that, the holy archangels of the elements will start working. Nobody will start building a construction unless he has the plans. So, the plans are in the hands of the authority of the Metatronios, our archangel, the guardian angel. So, what is there? The permanent atom, the noetic course law, which will be reflected as a form, the human form, our form. From where do these holy archangels get that human form to work with, to build even our human bodies? Really, that was a great question for me also, and I got the answer lately to the archangel, Yohannan. He said, my love, you always had it in you, even being one with the absolute infinite beingness. So, we always, as spirit, egos, had that nature of becoming humanized, to become human beings. The other archangels? No. They have their own nature. So, we are never losing our human form, even after returning to our divine nature. We have our human form. This is the form of our spirit self, which is everlasting, incorruptible. Now, we said the archetypes of everything concerning the human form and expression is in the authority of the Metatronios. And on it are working all the holy archangels of the elements. Seven orders of archangels. My friend, I am not allowed to reveal their names, besides mentioning the names of four only, but there are seven. Seven orders, having in the bodies of each one of us one of their holy orders. Of course, those I am allowed to speak of are the Michaels, the Machials, the Raphaels, the Gabriels, and the Urials. These four I can mention. I am not allowed to mention the other three. They will be mentioned in the innermost circles, not openly, because there may be certain people who make bad use of those vibrations of these archangels. Because they are the lords of materialization, dematerialization, and of extending the light consciousness of the soul. But, extending it, upwards or downwards? I don't want to create black magicians, just abusing the super substance of the mind. So, the names of the three archangelic orders will remain secret to the public. They will be revealed, though, to those who are worthy of cooperating with them. In what way? In purifying their human heart to reflect the divine love and their love. So, speak about the archetypes. On the permanent atom, the archetype of which is in the authority of our guardian angel, the Metatronus, luminous, splendid, are everything concerning the human form and the bodies. The form of the atom, composing the material body. The form of the bones, of the various organs, of every gland. How many organs are in the material body, functioning to keep for us a material body, perfect to live? Even a doctor of medicine cannot know them all. And how the glands are functioning. And how the glands are just manifesting the total wisdom of God. So, the seeker of the truth is studying what is going on in his material body. He is wondering at the total wisdom of the holy archangels of the elements, of the Logos, and of the Holy Spirit. Now, what the seeker of the truth will find after investigating the cross-material body? He will find out, of course, the mold of it, the etheric double of the material body, which is the most complicated and the most perfect than the etheric doubles of all the bodies. So, studying the etheric double of our material body, we know the whole wisdom, the total wisdom of the creators. Studying the etheric doubles of the psychic and the neurotic bodies, we are allowed to do that. Of course, but these etheric doubles are not so complicated. And they are under the authority of the human being, and he has to work with them. As I will explain when we finish with this study of the etheric double of our material body. Now, the material body has its etheric double. The mold in which it is built up in what we call the course of time. It starts from the spermatozoa. It has its etheric double. The pregnancy, developing the embryo in the womb of the mother, changing every moment, ripening, is that the word? Just to become the child. So this mold or the etheric double of our material body is changing every moment. Changing. Who is causing this change? The total wisdom of the absolute infinite beingness of the locus. The Holy Spirit and the Archangels. A child is born. Becoming a different now entity from the mother. Starting its own life. Now the Holy Archangels start their work on the etheric double of the newborn child. Boy or girl. Growing it. So, they make the changes every moment on the etheric double. The organs and everything. And the effect of this change is the growing up of the material body. Growing, growing, growing. Till a fellow will reach what we call the old age. What is death now? Such a thing does not exist. Because what people make the mistake to call death is the change. But the change is every moment. And the change, we can see it. Everybody of you has been a child, a girl or a boy, playing on the floor. As a small boy. Where is that boy now? Or that little girl? Holding her arms. A doll and playing. And the other just holding the marbles. Or collecting stamps. Where is it? The child of five years old. Orthodox science says that every seven years not even a particle remains in the body. Where is that? What is that self of yours when you are a child? It's gone. Died? No. Changed. To become you. Now you are in this age. Suppose some of you keep this material body of yours living after twenty years. Not even a particle of what is in your material body will be in that body which you say, I, myself, what will become of your body now? Changed. And orthodox science found out a great truth now that matter is indestructible. It simply is under changes. Even matter. Matter becomes energy and energy becomes matter. And everything is what we call the mind. And we have the mind as mind super substance formless. This mind substance reflecting the causes, laws into forms. And then we have the mind in still lower rhythm of vibrations and frequencies that causes what we call emotions. And then we have the solid mind which is the material. All around us, our material body. Everything is the mind in different rates of frequencies of vibrations. Nothing more than that. But now who is the one in these worlds? Complicated worlds of existence. Living in a so-called material body. You say, I, who? Who is that I? Well, this is the aim of the seeker of the truth to find out who he or she is. Or rather, what he or she is. First he will study his image. He is the image and likeness of God. The image, you can see it. You can see our image of the material plane. Our cross-material body. Our expressions as a personality. Intentions. The way of living. That is the image. But the image is not the likeness. We have been created as an image of the locus according to its likeness. So this needs much study. Study, how? Introspection. Expressing our divine nature, which is observation. Training our present-day personality to concentrate and then use the mind in the proper way in meditation. Thinking in the right way. So, this is the way. The way of finding out. Now, as I said, the third example of the material body is the most complicated. First of all, it has in it the Holy Spirit. It has the form. Perfect form. It can never get sick. There cannot be sickness on the etheric double of our material body. Yet, all illnesses and sickness on the material body will pass from the psychical body through it on the material body. Though it never becomes sick. The etheric double. Keeping in it the whole, we call it creativity, of the Sekinah. Yet, all illnesses will pass through it. Why? Because all illnesses on the material body of a human being is the result of his psychical condition. The way of thinking and feeling. Now, the orthodox science says it is psychosomatic. Let them explain to us what they mean by psychosomatic. Of course, they are. They are using the right word, but they don't know how. So, I said the etheric double of the material body is perfect. We can trace it, find it, know it, and use it. This is the aim of the Seeker of the Truth. And I have defined it according to the way it is functioning, at least to four classes. The first is what we call imprinting ether. It is that quality of the whole psychical body, the vibrations of which are to be used by the personality in creating thought forms, mental forms. To use it in the proper way of visualization. The second is what I call aesthetic ether. From the word, the Greek word esthesis, or the feeling giving ether. This is what we are using subconsciously to know that we live in our material body. When I gave you yesterday the exercise, feel you are in the material body. In reality, you are in the so-called etheric double of your body. Moving from the toes, from the feet, to the knees, to the thighs, and so on, and going back. And then in the whole, as you see the material body, you are on the etheric double. Because all the organs in the material body are not an obstacle in your movements from one place to the other. So, your work is on the etheric double. This is what we do. You are feeling what? Feeling the existence of your material body. That is the aesthetic or feeling giving ether. But I wanted it on higher realms. To feel who you are, and what you are. This is a more complicated work. In passing from the etheric double of our material body to the etheric double of our nautical body. I make the analysis now. How? This is taught in the inner circle, not in the public. Now, we have the second kind of ether. Ether of the etheric vitality which is composing our etheric double. The first is imprinting ether. This is what is aesthetic or feeling giving ether. Then we have what we call the kinetic ether. When I said, feel your toes, the knees. That is a movement. You are moving on the etheric double. Now, on the head, you are moving there. So, we have what we call now motion. In the etheric double. Later we will know how to move out of the body. And be anywhere you like. Because you are a god. You are not an animal. Just a poor human being. This is the work to be done by the seekers of the truth later. So, we have what we call now the kinetic ether. Kinetic from the word kinesis. Or movement, motion giving ether. Then we have the other which is the creative ether. For that, no one is allowed to speak. That is that nature and kind of our etheric double which has in it the etheric vitality, creating, constructing. No human being should know that. Of course, when one, even as a personality, reaches higher stages of self-consciousness, he will know. Who will teach him? He will find out by the instructions of his guardian archangel within him. In deep meditation, observation and concentration. First he must pass through the hall of ecstasy. Contemplation. Increase his self-consciousness to higher, higher stages. Then he will know. He cannot be taught by anybody else, a master, or even read these things in books. It needs training. The books and the masters will show only the way. But one has to try himself. And what is encouraging is the parable of Joshua Emanuel, the Christ, the God-man. I repeat again the parable of the talents. He gave, let us say, two talents. Only that part of the parable. And when he came back, he gave him four talents. He said, Master, you have given me two. The material body, the etheric double. I made it the cyclical body and the nautical body. I made them four. What did he say, the master? Well done. Faithful worker. You have been faithful to little things. I will give you more. Come in the joyousness of your master. Which is the joy of our master? Of the ecstasy, of the locus? The creation. Then you are entrusted by the creative ether of your etheric double. Now, what they have observed, many, many doctors and doctors. They have amputated a foot of a fellow. Now, part of the body is taken away from the main body. A leg, an arm, or something like that. Did he amputate the etheric double? No. That cannot be changed. And many, after having a leg amputated, they are feeling pain. Years after, they want to toss. Which means, it happens to be able to feel the etheric nature of their etheric double. As they said, etheric ether and feel it. So, amputation of the material body is not affecting the etheric double. Because that is the mold. It is not the result. It is the cause. Now, the work of the seeker of the truth is to work on his etheric double. On the three natures of his etheric double. Imprinting, kinetic and aesthetical feeling giving ether. And then, the fourth quality of it will be added to him by the locus. There are another, of course, ways that this etheric double is functioning. It cannot be given publicly. I said, if he knows how to use the other nature of the etheric double, he can work what people call miracles and wonders. And our aim is not to show stupid people around us phenomena just to applaud us. Because the seeker of the truth is free from a stupid personal egoism. He is approaching things with reverence. So, we said that the etheric double of our material body, the most complicated etheric double is in the authority of the Shekinah or the Holy Spirit. The El Shattai or the Locos, or the Sons of the Light, which means the Holy Archangels, the Michael, the Raphael, the Nouriel, the Gabriel, and three more. So, now, we see that we have the same human form in what we call our psychical body. Now, it is a wrong expression, because the soul is not in need of the human body. We might call it rather the emotional body. Some occultists are calling it the astral body, and they confuse it with the soul. No, this is just the form of the human body, the form of it, with substance. Are there organs in the psychical body? No! I move with my psychical body after I have made it perfect to use it as an independent vehicle for me. But seeing it, I cannot see any organs. But it is a whole, and I see centers of vibration. And there, you have to learn how to control those vibrations, which are causing what we call emotions, desires. Seeing the psychical body through the etheric body of the psychical body of a fellow, you will see centers of energy in a variety of colors. From the colors, you will understand that fellow as a personality in what place of development he is. So, humans know the meaning of the colors. And from the colors of the etheric body of the psychical body, that fellow, after leaving the material body, will classify himself in the relative part of the psychical world, which he deserves. So, in the etheric double of our psychical body, we are building the shell of our paradise or our hell, in which we are living even now. So, three changes inside this shell, paradise or hell, are for us to do. The Holy Archangels, just keep guard, are giving the etheric double of the psychical body with the necessary substance, as a mother is giving her breast to give milk to the child. Nothing more. You have to use it or make bad use of it. So, I say, on this psychical body of every human being, there are no organs. But they say, yes, you see the form and you see the psychical body of a man. But in the other side, eyes, yes, he has the form of the human body. But he can see from every particle of his psychical body, if he will train himself to do so. So, in our material body, through our etheric double, and developed now, we see through our eyes, in the psychical world, when one is trained, he can see from everywhere. And, of course, distances are different than what they are in the material world. This is what gives the sense of the fourth dimensional world. And this is what brings a new comer to the psychical world, or the one who is going consciously in projection during this life there, to be in confusion. Unless he has those who will teach him the laws of the psychical world, the laws of the world of the four dimensions. And now, concerning the etheric double of the so-called psychical body, there on it are the centers of energy, colored according to the development of that personality, of that person. None more than that. What about the medical body? It is just the same. It is formless. And you will find also in the cognitive body, the same things. The same centers, colored in the same way. That is why many call it the psycho-ethical body, because they are united. There are certain badly colored with deep colors, centers. In the psycho-ethical body there are at the same time, in the psycho-ethical body also, because one is affecting the other. So, though the material body and the material etheric double of our body is in the hands, I said, of the Holy Spirit, of the Logos and the Archangels, the etheric doubles of the psycho-ethical body and the psycho-ethical body are in our hands. And we are responsible for that. We are given simply the substance, which we make good use of or bad use of. We are given the mind. Always is the mind. We are making it good use or bad use. Yet, in the Holy Archangel are the archetypes, which are exercising on each person an attraction. And subconsciously we are feeling how our etheric doubles of the nautical or the psycho-ethical body should look like. But this is done subconsciously. This attraction will lead us one day back to perfection. But we are free to color our psychical and nautical bodies as we wish. But we are living in worlds of existence governed by laws, going against those laws we have to undergo the consequences. This is what gives the sense of Karma. Karma is a Greek and a Hindu word. Because there is a great relation between the Sanskrit and the Greek language. The Greeks call it Krima. The Hindus call it Karma. But there is a misunderstanding now. People in the West, studying what the Hindus are teaching about Karma, think that Karma means to suffer something bad for something bad you have done. That is not the case. What we might call Karma is given also by Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. Whatever one sows, so he shall reap. Which means doing something bad, the consequences will be painful. But doing something good, you have to receive relatively what good you have done. Even he said if you give a glass of water, you receive it back. So, for us, this term must mean the law of cause and effect. Relative cause, relative effect. It is again a blasphemy in certain religions to think that something a fellow has done is a sin. For that he is doomed in eternal hell. There is not such a devil God to punish human beings in this way. That is a blasphemy. God is most merciful. What happens to us is violating the laws, becoming in order of the law, we are facing certain consequences. And a relative cause is giving this relative result. Not more, not less. Because there is perfect justice in the authority of Uriah, Uriah the Lord of justice, order and equilibrium. So, we have mentioned four Archangelic Orders. I am allowed to speak a little more about them. The Machaels. Billions and billions and billions of Machaels. Yet one. How is that? You cannot know what is human nature. Or the heavenly man. By studying the character of a human being. Of a person. Because each one is separated from the other. We are in the world of separateness. The Archangels are not. So, billions and billions and billions of Archangels called Machaels. They have their individuality, each one of them. Yet they have their common Archangelic self-consciousness. They are one. Now this is rather difficult to understand. Before knowing what is common self-consciousness in the Logos. The same with the Caprials. The Raphaels. And the Urials. And each of these individual Archangels is destined to do a certain kind of work. Nothing beyond that. And all of them cooperating amongst them are giving the total wisdom of the Father God. The one God. Though there are billions of Gods, still it is one God. They are in the one great reality and authority. So, what is the work of Machaels? And what is the point they are cooperating? Machaels is the Lord of Fire, Light and Heat. I completed the triangle. How to use these three qualities? I am not allowed to say. But it is the three qualities. Creative and dissolving. Not distracting. There is no such a word as distraction. Dissolving. Just an expression of it. So we have the Machaels. The Lord of Fire, Heat and Light. Now we have Raphael. Raphael is the Lord of the Etheric Vitality. Machaels color is blood red. And all these shades of red. Now we have Raphael. The color of Raphael is a violet color. It is the Etheric Vitality. It is darkness to the human eyes. Yet it is the super light. Which is not related to the light of the sun. Under the domain of Machaels. He is the Lord of another kind of light. And unless you know it. You cannot understand what it is. Is there not heat in the Etheric Vitality? Of course there is. Maybe more heat than you can find in the rays of the sun. How you work with these qualities of the Etheric Vitality? Again I say it is the work of the innermost circle. So we have now Gabriel. For these three we can speak. The element of liquids. How many kinds of liquids we have on the planet? We have kerosene. We have oil. Different kinds of density. Yet you have fire in it. You can light it. So even in certain cases. Of the expression of Gabriel. I have in it Machaels. This is what I call the cooperation amongst the Archangels. Where do they cooperate? In our bodies. In our material bodies. They are cooperating. In nature all around us. And in every form of life. In every expression of life. In every phenomenon of life. They are cooperating. How? You get ready-made. You call it food. Prepared by the Holy Archangels. Liquid. The animals you are consuming and everything. It is light. It is water. They are cooperating to create many, many billions and billions and billions of phenomenon of life. In all the vegetable kingdom. In the animal kingdom. Human being is consuming them as food. Who is just changing? This food you are eating. We call it digestion. And each Archangel will get its own substance. So that he will make it creative. In your bodies. Here he will store fat. Here it will be muscle. Now everything. The work of the three Archangels is giving you the red warm blood. Circulating the whole body. Can you imagine how splendid and magnificent. Work is done. Now, this moment in your material bodies. In the blood. Now. The creative method they are using. Suppose I stab with a knife. And open a wound on your leg. Or on your arm. You see that it will not be contaminated. It will be cured. Healed. Closed down. How? You don't do it. You don't know how it is done. Yet it will be closed. You are running. You are breaking a bone. On the leg. On the arm. Something else. That tends to join. It is more splendid work. On the solid bones. Who is doing it? How it is done? Cooperating with the Lord of Earth. Shamel. But it is done. You see it. You can see it. Yet, who is observing it? And as a human being, we give thanks to those Lords of Creation. Preparing a perfect body. For him or her. To express themselves in it. Who is giving thanks? Why should we not? Why should we not respect their work? For us. And is that great and splendid work just in vain? Without any cause. So. A human being expressing a divine self-consciousness. And a human perfect intelligence, if he wishes to express it. Should understand this creative work. In his own body. More splendid work. He will understand. Starting the etheric double of his material body. Starting his psychical body. And nautical body. For which he is responsible. To give them the right human shape. And qualities. So. The material body. And its etheric double. Perfect. Is in the authority of the Holy Archangels. Of the Locusts and the Holy Spirit. But can be given even to us. To a seeker of the truth. Who will use observation, meditation. And purify himself. To use it. Cooperate with them. But what concerns us is now. The psychical body. Which is our present day personality. Our emotions. Weaknesses. Our subconsciousness. Our life which is not the life of the material body. The life of the material body is completely independent from the life. Of the person living in it. Though he is influencing the health of the material body. By burning up the etheric vitality. With a non-sensual way of living. Because this he will learn by observation. By learning what is life in the material body. By knowing and understanding who. He is in reality. And who he thinks he is. Which is not. Which is imagination. Now we will make an exercise. Breathe deeply. With the air you are breathing. In it is also the etheric vitality. For the etheric double of your material body. And your material body. There are many, many kinds of etheric vitality. Breathe deeply. The air is filling only the lungs. In your chest it will not go anywhere else. By breathing. Yet by breathing you can feel. The etheric vitality. Going to any part of your material body. I mean the etheric double of it. An ascetic ether. Now see that every time you breathe in. This etheric vitality is in the whole material body. You feel your thighs. You feel your legs. You feel your feet. So the air enters only the lungs. Yet the etheric vitality you are breathing. Can go anywhere you wish to go. By concentration in your material body. Through the etheric double. So feel your feet. From the place you are sitting on the chair. To the toes of your feet. And feeling them. You will feel they are getting warm. There is warmth now. In this etheric vitality. Feeling your feet. Thighs. Knees. Legs. Try to feel this warmth. Yogi's in India living in mountains. In the Himalayas. On the ice. They can just get this warmth. Giving etheric vitality. And keep their bodies warm. Feel this sweet warmth. Your etheric vitality. On your legs. Thighs. Knees. Legs. And say with your mind. I want perfect health. To be in these parts of my body. Subconsciously you are working for it. The holy archangels will be pleased to see that you acknowledge what they are doing. They see you. They feel you. They know you. You don't know them. Breathe deeply. And store this vital energy. Now in your abdomen. And the legs. And the feet. Feel your abdomen. Continue breathing deeply. And feel the air in your lungs. And the etheric vitality. In all your material body through the etheric double of it. Deep and comfortable breaths. Fill the whole body with this etheric vitality. Feel you are in the material body. You are existing now. As an individual being. Enough. I take from the mind of three or four of you. Studying certain books. In yoga. Yet being in confusion. And I will give you a certain explanation so that you will be out of the confusion. When you read in your books. About a pyramid. You don't understand what does it mean. Of course these are things in our system of the inner circle. And the inner circle. The whole material world. Everything material. Cross material. From the galaxy. To any kind of form. Has as a symbol of it. A pyramid. With a four sided base. This is the law of the material world of the three dimensions. And each side of this pyramid. Is symbolizing the four elements. I have spoken about today. So imagine now with visualization. Any size you like pyramid. On four sided base. Four corners. Therefore it has. Four triangular sides. Every side. Of this pyramid. Symbolizes one of the elements. So you must have it balanced. And. According to the four sided basis. Is the construction of the triangular sides of the pyramid. Which means keep in order. The material. The ethereal. Your cyclical nature. And your nautical nature. To construct in your nature. This four sided complete pyramid. Which will be a perfect personality. I have given to three or four of you. The hints. Work on it. 1- Live an Examined Life I Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your all mightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. One is born in this world as a human being, a man or a woman, coming to this so- called material plane, this material world. Growing, after being born, starts growing, growing. Reaches an age in which he or she is understanding something happening just around, around him or around her. First of all, the family. The conditions in the family. The life in the family. And so, growing, develops a human material body. Man or woman. Of course, the material body. Continuous growing, growing. Living its own life, the material body. There is a completely different life in the material body from what we call our life, each one of us, as a personality. Now, growing appears an entity, an I-ness, a personality of a man or a woman. Now, comparing the bodies, the material bodies of all human beings, men or women, the material bodies are somehow the same. Bones, flesh, blood, many organs, the same organs, in the material bodies of men and in the material bodies of women. Studying the material body of a young man, we know what is the material body of every other young man as a human being. Likewise, studying the body of a young woman, we know what are the bodies, all the bodies of all young women. Same conditions, same possibilities. Yet, in growing these material bodies, all in the same way, taking food, breathing, drinking water, and developing the material body. But who is doing that? Who is responsible for the material body? The form, the material form of the human being, and then, what we call life in a material body. Who is looking after that material body? To keep it in good health? That's another matter to be considered. But we see that in this material body of a man or a woman, is developing an identity, a personality, which is very different from all other persons around them, even members of the same family. So, you cannot study the personality of a man or a woman and say that you know what is the personality of other people. In the same way, we can do it studying the material bodies. So, this kind of self now, let us call it self, is not a product, definitely, of the material body, of the food we eat, or of the way we are living. Because in a family, you find children growing, in the same environment, eating the same kind of food, eating on the same table, hearing the same lessons and instructions from the parents, getting, as we say, the same way of growing up, the family way. Yet, one becomes a saint and the other is a criminal. Why? What is the reason? These are things we can see and study every day, in every community, in every place of the world, everywhere on the planet. So, what is the personality of a man or a woman? But now, who is putting this question? Inevitably, sooner or later, these questions will be presented to certain persons. Some persons take life just like that, without caring about anything else except considering their material bodies as their own self, I, showing on their material body, taking care of the material body. How? How? It is the holy archangels of the elements who are taking care of the material body. Anyhow, just to show the surface of that material body to the other people, dressing themselves better, or this and that. Many are just behaving in this way in the society. They don't care about anything else. They get a job just to earn their living, or others are taking that care to look after them and feed them. This is just as you can find them everywhere in the world, living a life which is not even worth living. Some of them come to despair, and even they commit suicide, because they find that life is not worth living. Who taught them what is life? And really, what is life? This is the problem that everybody has to engage himself with and understand what is life. Now, we said certain people. Other people, of course, being under the burden of necessity and the conditions, everywhere, even in their own place, in their own family, in their own community, in the nation they are, they must get a job to earn their living. But they are not satisfied with that. They start putting the questions to whom? Definitely to themselves. Who else can answer these questions? Who am I? What am I? Am I a human being? Yes. They have to face this and this and this problem. How? Is it reasonable? Because in this class of people, you find many, many people in the various stages of development. But, after hard thinking, they find the way, at least to what I call the relative truth concerning life in our time. What is life? It needs much, much more just introspection to reach this answer. What is life? Now, during the past centuries, many past centuries, such persons, I call them the great ones, were not satisfied only of seeing things happening around them. And even finding all other human beings around them unhappy, fighting, killing one another, putting the question, but why? What for? All these things. They start just trying to understand what is going on in themselves at first and in the others, in the others, as a personality, causing all these things. So, they start studying what I will call now the personality of a human being, a man or a woman. I am telling you, studying this subject, you will never find even two people the same. There must be some difference. Even twin brothers or twin sisters as a personality. Then comes the question, must now we study the physical body in which we are living and we make the mistake to consider it that it is our self, or just that kind of self we are expressing. Each one of us as a personality now has to make an analysis on both sides. Studying the material body, yes, the orthodox science is doing it now. And just opening a book on anatomy will remain wondering how many organs are in the material body? How is the material body? But, that is not enough. You must put the question to yourself. Who did really create all these organs? And what for created these organs? Who created this material body? I call mine. Now we come to another point. We don't call it ourselves now, but we call it ours. Mine, my body. Of course, this is a very serious branch of study of the reasonable ones. The orthodox science, yes, I can dare say that it has done much, much progress. But, there are much, much more which remain unanswered. And, of course, in future they will get the answer. For example, what are the glands? What is the work of the glands? By studying now how the material body of a man or of a woman is functioning, they will reach to the conclusion that a super-intelligence most wise we call it the locus, the manifestation of God as the locus. Locus means manifestation. It is using what we call the absolute total wisdom. Yes, there is the absolute total wisdom in the work in which the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit and the locus is doing in your own body. In your own material body. There is much wisdom. Then we come to the conclusion Why? Why so much trouble? From the side of the Holy Archangels. Then another branch of study. What are these Holy Archangels? The Lords of the Elements. Now we have another branch of study. We cannot deny their existence. Definitely. Because they are working in the material body of every human being. Only. And of every animal. Of every living form. In the trees. In the flowers. Everywhere you see in the world around you. These Holy Archangels following their order doing their work which the absolute infinite beingness implanted in them are working most wisely. So the world of creation around us is a very vast field of study. And we find what? That each phenomenon of life in what we call the world of existence the cross-material world the world we get knowledge of it through the senses and especially through the sight is governed by that total wisdom. Serious study of these things studying this phenomenon of life around us. We come to certain conclusions. We come. Anybody can come to that conclusion. But the great ones of past centuries have pointed us the way they have followed to reach this conclusion. We should not accept something because somebody as we call him a great one just said that. We ourselves should know the truth. Should understand it. So we see that. In this world of existence the material world something to exist that something must have definitely a form. A form. What form now? Since we see all around us on the material plane billions and billions and billions of forms from the worm the amoeba the ant, the butterfly many kinds of colored butterflies everything all around us how many phenomena of life do we see around us? We can detect around us billions and billions and billions of phenomena of life and each of it has its form. And we see that something to exist must definitely have a form. But we see just one thing having that form. Or billions and billions again things having the same form. And we see that each kind of phenomenon of life has what we call its circle of possibilities. Just this is proving us that behind everything is the total wisdom. Studying one kind of life we know what it is in that kind of life for every form of that kind. This is what we can find. Who decides about all that? So now, studying what we call the world of forms seriously we can reach to the conclusion that behind each form is the total wisdom of the builders of that form. Of the builders of that form. This is our first thought which is mistaken. Because they, the Holy Archangels do not create the forms. But they trust the forms with their elements. So, a kind of life of any form of the billions and billions of these forms around us has its place in the everlasting life in the world of the ideas, of the causes of the laws in the Divine Plan. And the Holy Archangels of the elements Michael, the Lord of the element of fire. Gabriel, the Lord of the element of water and of space around the planet. Raphael, the Lord of energy, magnetism, the etheric vitality giving existence and life on the material planet the Earth. Then another kind of Archangels keeping the balance and the order. This is just proving us that Uriel giving us that every kind of form around us has its own circle of possibilities going around it. Cannot escape from it. Has to complete the circle of possibilities provided it is the wish of the Logos to complete it. Otherwise we have the circle of probabilities around the circle of possibilities. So for every living form for every phenomenon of life, one and only one circle of possibilities exists, which you can study. But being in the world of the effect from the causes we see around every such circle of possibilities many circles of probabilities. Just entering the wisdom of these circles of probabilities, I assure you it is not an easy thing to understand. But studying the laws of possibilities of each form in life we are wondering at the absolute wisdom, total wisdom of the intelligences. Let me call now the Archangels of the Elements intelligences. Now to these intelligences the Lords of the Elements, the Archangels have a form a form of their own. Of course each order has its form. But they can get any form since they are working in all the forms. What about the human form? Can we see a Michael? A Gabriel? A Raphael? A Uriel? In a human form? Can we see them? In the material body of every human being a man or a woman a Michael is working giving that body the necessary heat. A Gabriel is working giving to the body the liquids in the material body. A Raphael is working giving to that material body what we call the etheric double the etheric vitality call it magnetism, call it personal magnetism, they give many names now to this energy. And a Uriel is there balancing the elements. You are growing not only time growing there must be a balance. Starting this we reach, I said, to the total wisdom of them. Now do Michaels get a human form? If they want to have it yes. Since they are right since they are working in your material body they know it they know it molecule by molecule atom by atom the organs and everything keeping it in order two Raphaels can get a human form of course Gabriel of course of course Uriel I have never seen any Uriel in a human form though I have seen many Michaels, Gabriel and Raphaels in human form Uriel I have never seen because the balancer is avoiding getting a material human form others other Archangelic orders less personal because they are personal as the Cherubs and others they get forms yes the human face yes sometimes but not completely a human form I am speaking of my own experiences so can one conduct these Archangels? how? they are in your body working every moment making your material body grow they are responsible for the growth of your material body which is not you so as I said it is a mistake to say I ensure your material body because your material body lives its own life whether you care about it, you know it or not once born the material body that will continue growing according to their decision if they want to complete for you your circle of possibilities ending it as the circle of probabilities any stage of the growth it is up to them so you are a different entity than your material body your material body is the animal as every other animal life all around you it has its own instinctive consciousness instinctive consciousness subconsciousness no consciousness no it has its own instinctive consciousness we can study it is this instinctive consciousness of the material body having to do something with our subconsciousness our subconsciousness not its subconsciousness yes as the storehouse of the energy, yes but not its quality and I am talking now only about the material body the material body a human being can know with the five senses but that's not all because developing a kind of self we are using other bodies also which are in our material body the so called psychical body the body of the emotions and the nautical body the body of the thoughts and even other conditions of life but we are using them as a self now to other living things around us I don't call them beings the animals or the animal life around us express a self no no living form phenomena of life around us on the planet expresses more than what I call instinctive consciousness which is the result of the angel behind it behind it now I use another word angel because before I said archangels they are two different things fortunately the church does not make distinction because they don't know personally all these things so an angel or a nature spirit is the elemental the mental thought of the archangel animating that form giving it the form getting the form from the world of the principles and the holy archangels dressing those forms through the angel with their elements now who is creating that spirit or angel of a form of an animal we said that the archangel Michael is working the archangel Gabriel is working, the archangel Raphael is working, Uriel is working, and Arthur is working which of all those is creating the so called angel it is the emanation or the expression of which archangel now of the holy spirit the holy spirit or the absolute intelligence impersonal intelligence is providing to every animal life the angel and through that angel the holy archangels are working of course more I am not allowed to say so we can know what is going on in the world of creation by studying we who we what are we can an animal any kind of animal you call it intelligent do this work feeling having a self and using now self- consciously the mind to study and know know why? because they are not gods it is the parts of life and not life itself they are phenomena of life all are phenomena of life in the vegetable kingdom and the animal kingdom what is our difference now from all this animal life around us we are gods Christ said that or the enlightened was said that you are all gods sons of the almighty male and female are there male gods and female gods? somebody had put me this question I said no a god is neither male nor female maybe both both but not in form and in expression but in quality so the soul also first you are soul beings gods which is a great difference now from what I call God the father the absolute infinite beingness yes if we get one drop of water from the ocean and make an analysis you know what is the ocean salt water you can know that but a drop of water is not the ocean in quantity at least so spherical shape of the drop of water is your soul is the soul god? yes definitely the soul is god so we are gods are soul spirit egos and you can find that by introspection looking within searching and finding according to Joshua Emmanuel the Christ the kingdom of the heavens which is in you in your nature as gods now this is a vast field of study which needs many many centuries and incarnations to reach to that stage now what is life from this point of view you can put many questions which life you presented now many phenomena of life in the vegetable kingdom I didn't mention anything about minerals, crystals and all that that's also life the vegetable and the animal kingdom is life and now we are presenting the life of our so called material body and we didn't mention anything else about anything about the psychical body and the nautical bodies bodies belonging to different dimensions to different worlds of existence and then we speak about life and Christ is speaking about the everlasting life what is this everlasting life we know life as a phenomenon birth growth completing a circle or not completing it of possibilities and passing over to another condition these are death what do we mean by death now death which means dissolution of course there is of the material body when it completes the circle of possibilities or ends its existence in any place of the circle of probabilities definitely there is the death of the material body which means dissolution either under death when it is interred or by cremation there is an end to it so death of the material body, yes but is there what you call death of our personality of our self no because this selfhood is the everlasting eternal life and we as a spirit soul self we are immortal that is why I said we are gods we had never been born and we are never dying in future we who we now we see double self the real light and its shadow so that I have the shadow of the light I must have the in between something which will cast a shadow can you have a shadow even if you have life life is everywhere unless you have something in between it and that in between something will give a shadow of the light on something else again unless you have a surface or a floor can you say shadow no no what do we care about our shadow or the light which is our self everlasting god everlasting life you say yes why don't I remember and I put you the question who is putting the question now the shadow or the light who are you now you are both and the shadow and the life you are the shadow because you cast the material substance and matter unless you had this matter and substance and even super substance you couldn't cast a shadow in the world of existence but these are worlds of time and place space it's not what I would call the absolute reality the absolute selfhood so come again tell me yes of course but now as I am a shadow what am I as a shadow who is inquiring now me the shadow shadow or the spirit now I put you the question who wants to know you show to yourself I want to know I who now you are speaking about an I-ness which I God God is not in need of knowing anything because as a God you know everything you know all as a shadow yes but now let us study that self of yours as a shadow and find in that shadow the light which is really you you can find it through what you call introspection and reasoning at the beginning until you learn now as a personality the great great state of attunement to attune yourself with your inner reality yourself with what I would call attunement sometime or oneness you becoming that you say but I am a shadow can the shadow become the light yes of course it can be absorbed by the light and this is what Jesus Christ had taught us we are not going to lose even our present day personality he said the phenomenically mortal will become immortal and the continuously changing will become unchanging you will find all these things in the new testament in the teachings of Christ so even your present day personality can become immortal you say how is it it sounds as a nonsense how the mortal can become immortal I tell you what is your personality now the course of events in time and certain place now you as a spirit soul had hundreds of incarnations why don't I remember because you are the shadow now when you attune yourself to your inner reality you will remember it is because now you are using only a handful of clay a handful of earth which are the human brains to express yourself as a personality when you start by introspection attuning yourself to your inner nature to the kingdom of the heavens which is in your nature then you will remember you can remember now as a personality you don't remember things which you have done before a year or a week even or even yesterday you are forgetting so it is the inability of the present day personality of yours which is not remembering but you are not supposed to remain that now you have just to be reborn as Christ said in the Bible he explained all these things to Nicodemus but unfortunately the priest the first priest cut off many parts of it why? because they wanted to deprive from human beings second opportunity they said no, now either now yourself or eternally you are dumped because they had been dumped fools they have presented to the human beings the mess he forgot the Father as the worst saddest and criminal which is foolish 1- Mastery of The Holy Mind and the Life of the self Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation. Deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Just a revision. What is, always, was always, and will always be, is the absolute, infinite beingness. God the Father. What is absolute, infinite beingness? Nobody can know anything. Except that this beingness is in itself sufficiency. In this absolute, infinite beingness are billions and billions and billions of beings. In it, it is the beingness multiplicity. One God. The absolute beingness. Now, these beings in the absolute beingness are similar to this absolute beingness. In what? In the selfhood. The absolute beingness is the absolute, infinite selfhood. Now, in the absolute beingness, apart from the self-sufficiency, is also the will pleasure to manifest itself in itself. Now we can see what we call the total wisdom. To manifest itself in itself, is in it the all-mightiness. Now we don't see a second God. We see a manifestation of God. And God, the absolute beingness now, we call it absolute, infinite beingness. Through it will pass beings for manifestation, to express the will pleasure of manifesting the absolute beingness itself in itself. Where? Since that absolute, infinite beingness is omnipresent, omniscient. So, we call now this expression the locus. Of course, the all-mightiness of this absolute beingness, now expressed in the absolute and through the absolute beingness, we call it the Holy Spirit. Now again, the Holy Spirit has nothing to do with Geist. Fortunately, the Germans call it Heiligengeist. It has nothing to do with Geist. Geist is the mind. And the Holy Spirit is the absolute, infinite beingness, in expression, of course, through the mind. This Holy Spirit will express its majesty in its works, in the creation. This is what we call the macrocosm. The absolute, infinite beingness is and exists. It expresses itself. Now we have in the macrocosm the universes. Now, the universes, after the will pleasure of the infinite beingness now, to express itself in itself, causes the emanation from the absolute, infinite beingness, the locus, and from all the similar to it beings, the archangelical orders, the emanation of the mind. Now we have the mind. We call it Geistes. But that's not the Holy Spirit. It is the material, the substance by which the universes, all the universes will be made. But who is going to make them? The mind is the means. It is the holy archangels, the lords of the elements. Now we have the mind, as far as we human beings can understand it and conceive it, as super substance, substance, ethereal substance matter, and matter. Matter is the mind solid. Nothing exists which is not the mind. The mind in different vibrations, in different frequencies of vibrations. And we spoke yesterday about motion or movement. Call it whatever you like. Which is one of the characteristics of the locus. One of the characteristics of life now expressed through the locus. So, life or everything living will have in it motion and a form. Now, the form. When we see the mind as super substance, in what I call it noetic plane, there the mind is the unextinguishable light. And in it are the causes, laws, principles, the radiation of this in lower frequencies of the mind, are giving us the forms now dressed in the mind. Because these forms, all forms, are in the absolute infinite beingness in the total wisdom. This is what characterizes the total wisdom. The emanation from the principles, from the laws, from the causes of the billions and billions and billions of forms. Then we have the forms reflected from the causes, laws, principles of the noetic plane as follows now in the noetical plane. The noetical plane, there, the mind will call it substance. Not super substance. Then further reflection of these laws, causes and forms, we have them in what we call the psychical planes. Still more. We have them in the ethereal planes. Still more extension. We have the material planes. And the church and those wise ones who have formulated the various religions speak about seven heavens or seven universes. But maybe there are many more. It's seven that a human being can understand, comprehend and express himself in them. So, we'll define them. The noetic plane is everywhere. The super substance of the mind. Now, what is the noetical plane? Each planet, each heavenly body has its own now noetical plane. And in it, the noetic super substance. There is no place where there is not the noetic super substance of the mind. But now we have the noetical plane giving us space as place. From this point of view, we can just observe what we call space. And again, what is space? Who can know what is space? A human being, how can a human being conceive what is space? Unless we see that in lower vibrations of the mind, lower than the noetical plane, to the psychical plane, to see it more formulated. And then, we see it as solid heavenly bodies. The galaxies. And in the galaxies, the solar systems. The planets. Everything is solid now. Can you understand life in this course existing without motion? The center of the galaxy goes around its own axis, projecting fiery, huge pieces of it, according to their size, to their substance, nearly the same substance. The holy archangels of the order of the Urials are classifying them in certain distance from the mother source. They rotate, they go around the center of the galaxy. And again, those big fiery masses, who are the suns, will do the same thing, project going around what we call the planets. You know how many millions of solar systems are in our galaxy? Now, orthodox science has to say much about this thing. Many solar systems. Each galaxy has its own solar system. Each solar system has its own planets. Each planet has its satellite. And so on. And how many galaxies can a human being see? With the means he has of seeing. Some. Yes. Some of them. And all of them are in what we call... But now, we understand what is space because we see it as a place. That something is taking place there. Now, studying all these things, we see that the macrocosm, as we understand it, is the absolute infinite beingness, self- sufficiency, and will-pleasure of manifesting. The absolute infinite being, and now the locus expressing the will-pleasure of the infinite beingness, and its pleasure, of course, and the pleasure of all those billions of archangels, of the archangelic orders, just formulating what we call the superstructure of the mind to work with. They classify themselves then to what we call orders, archangelic orders, lords of the elements. What are the elements? The mind in various frequencies of vibrations. Then we see their work using, we call it now the divine plan, which is in the total wisdom of the absolute infinite beingness, of the absolute infinite beingness. That's the macrocosm. Then we see the psychical planes, each material object, each material satellite planet has a psychical counterpart, has a noetical counterpart, and is floating in the absolute, what we call, noetic plane. This is the macrocosm. What is the microcosm now? Which means a human being, we. We correspond to the macrocosm. The absolute infinite beingness in us is our real self. The God in us, our own nature, as spirit, ego beings. Spirit, ego beings. What are we in that state? Who can say? And then we have this, what we call, absolute infinite beingness, the locus, macrocosmically. Macrocosmically. Our relation is our self now, spirit being. And we have, what we call, the expressions of the absolute infinite beingness. The real pleasure manifested. We see further creations, which we call now, the noetical and the psychical planes. In us is our soul selfhood. Soul, ego being. Then we see the material universes. We have our material bodies. So we are, according to the Bible of the Old Testament, the image we are made to the image and according to the likeness of the infinity. Now, what are we as human beings? We have just to analyze that also. As human beings, we are in the world of creation. We have been created. As everything else around us is created. Everything, even the planets, satellites and everything. I said, to exist, we are in the world of existence now as human beings. Did we leave the world of beingness? No! Because the worlds of existence are definitions of a place in space or in the beingness and in the beingness. We have not been separated as spirit, ego beings. We have not been separated as life itself. As the everlasting life. But now we have the reflection of our real self, the life. We are living now. Living beings. So we must understand the difference between life and living. So, according to the Bible, and God, the infinite beingness, and the locus, the manifestation, sent to whom? To the holy archangels, the lords of the elements. After they have created the worlds of existence. In the first day, in the second day, in the third day. Then, in the sixth day of creation, the Lord said, in which language? Of course, in the language of vibrations. That the vibrating, the real pleasure of manifestation, having in it the human being in the total wisdom, and the holy archangels in it, the absolute infinite beingness, co-vibrate, expressing the will of the Father as their own will. Creating. And so, let us create man. A human being. To our image and according to our likeness. Not different. To become the microcosm exactly similar to us as the macrocosm. And so, a human being is created. A human being is created. Now this is a point that needs much, much thought. What is that? That creates that. Which is reflected now to create the human being. Of course, we said, as far as you know human beings, our ego, spirit, being, vibrates as its own vibrations and its own will to the vibrations of the absolute infinite beingness and the absolute infinite beingness to express the human form. Wherefrom do we get our human form? Why do we not get another form, an archangelic form? Or any other form? Because that is our nature. The human form is not imposed on us. We are that in the absolute infinite beingness and the absolute infinite beingness. So we were always in the human form in the everlasting, unextinguishable spirit. Let us call it body. Which is our real nature. So nobody will lose its human nature by being a spirit, ego, god. So it was our own will that we have been humanized and materialized, incarnated. Now something you cannot find in books. I am telling you of my own experiences and knowledge. Our material body is built in the mould, we call it our etheric double. This etheric double is perfect. It is the perfect expression of our spirit, ego bodies. As the mould and the storehouse of the mind in all its forms through which the holy archangels are creating, building up and sustaining our material bodies. By introspection and knowing, studying the material body, you will be wondering at this marvelous and splendid work of the holy archangels of the elements in building a material body through and in the etheric double having in it the total wisdom of the almightyness as far as it concerns the human being. So our etheric double is the reflection, it is the reflection but it is also part of it, of our spirit, ego, eternal, everlasting form, human form. It can never be mutilated. Maybe an accident will happen and our material body will be injured and let to go for an operation, a part of it to be amputated but not on the etheric double. The etheric double is intact always. Intact in what? In form. Now some mystics say that after the material body dies the etheric double is dissolved. No, it isn't. And Blavatsky and all those who made a great mistake the etheric double is discharging its energy withdrawing in its own self the human form in our spiritual body. It is withdrawn. It is not dissolved. So it discharges only what we call etheric vitality and energy which is gathered by many, many ways. By the locus, the Holy Spirit and the Archangel just to serve to the Holy Archangel in building up the material body. So the form and the force and the power in the etheric double remains withdrawing in its own nature to our spirit, ego form, human form. This far we know about the etheric double. What about the psychical body now? Again, these things you will not find them in books because those of you who may know it do not reveal it. We will. So that our psychical body now has exactly the form of our spirit, ego body which is the etheric double manifested. And through it, with it, the Holy Archangels are building our psychical body, good psychical body. Now again, I speak of my own experiences. We have the archetype of our so-called psychical body which is in the total wisdom of the infinite beingness and which is held by our guardian Archangel. Luminous, brilliant, splendid psychical body. But we are given a mass of psychical matter. Mind again demands psychical matter. The reflection of our soul to be humanized, let us make man. To become a man, we have to work it in many, many incarnations until it will make it by working it similar to the archetypes in us of course kept by the Holy Archangel, our guardian Archangel. So now we have a perfect psychical body in the equified Archangel, our guardian Archangel. And we are given a mass of psychical matter. Come, work with it now. It is the same thing as you give mud and clay to a fellow seeing a nice statue and say, now, make one like that. Until you get the skill to make a perfect statue. That's why all people are different one from the other because it's different. They are psychical body. So on the psychical body we have to work and not the Holy Archangel. That means in our personality we have to work. The Holy Archangels remain neutral. They only work on that splendid archetypes. The same thing happens with our noetical body. Perfect. Splendid. Just in the Holy Archangel, our guardian Archangel. But we are given just the authority to use now the mind to work on it to create our own noetical body. So that we'll make it so perfect, pure, clean to transmute it into the archetypes. It's the archetypes we call it. That's why two persons are not on the same level in thinking, reasoning. So we have now our splendid divine nature in the Holy Archangel equified to us and exercising a constant influence on us how to work with that mind substance psychical substance and the mind noetical substance just to form and make our own now psychical and noetical bodies. How? We'll make them. Having in us our divine nature we have in us the ability of doing it. That means we have in us and in the personality our soul, ego, self. Having our soul, ego, self we project what we call the permanent personality so that every time we are incarnated creating a separate personality to make it more perfect, to coincide with the permanent personality and with the soul, of course. So a human being has to work for its deification. Now, are we going to become something we are not now? As soul, ego, spirit beings? No, we are gods. But as human beings a time and place based personality we are not. And we have to work on it to disentangle that personality from the influences only of the outside world entering in our nature in the kingdom of the heavens which is in us so that we will transmute this personality to our soul, ego, self. This is what Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said the perishable will become imperishable and the mortal will become immortal because in nature it is immortal but in expression it isn't because our present personality is changing every moment. Our material body is changing every moment and our psychical and nautical bodies are changing every moment. And when? When it will not be changed and purified? Christ gave a parable, Joshua Emmanuel. A woman, he said, got three measures of flour. She mixed them up in such a way that three of them became living. Is that the word? What does it mean? Which is that woman? The personality changing three measures of flour. The material body, the psychical and the nautical it's matter, substance, super substance of the mind the three measures of flour mixing them, working with them till three of them became living. That's what Joshua Emmanuel the Christ meant. So, that woman or our present personality has to do the work to transmute herself and the bodies into the divine nature which is our spiritual body form which is intact there but we have to get back to our real nature. Joshua Emmanuel the Christ gave also the parable of the lost son. Everything is stated properly. But it remains for us to understand what the God-man meant by what he was saying. Now, we know we have I would rather prefer to say we are our etheric table because in it is our real nature the human form, the mould in which the holy archangels will build up our material bodies. The material bodies, as Joshua Emmanuel the Christ says is the temple of God of our self, our ego-self being to live in it. And, we have now given the mind a psychical substance the mind as no-ethical substance to work with it and make our own kind of time and place self perfect, pure to coincide with our real nature our ego-spirit-self. Somebody would say, but what for? Why? Had been allowed just to cast a shadow of our divine nature being what? To create a human being, ourselves enter in it consider this human being as our self it is our self and it isn't it's both. Why? What for? Again, he gave the parable of the talents he gave it so that we even as spirit, ego beings gain experience of the worlds and in the worlds of existence. I'll give an example, a very poor example my own example because I'm very awkward in giving examples myself never mind. Suppose you are a good architect you know everything you have at the university you can sit on your desk and make what you call them, the plans or the blueprints you know everything you can just sit and even being expert in visualization what you have put on the paper just live in it see it the rooms everything, the corridors and everything you are an expert now architect that's different from coming down get the mud and the clay, the iron water and everything and order the servants come on, let us build it and see it now materially that's another pleasure it's not enough just knowing it is living in it Why? It's the real pleasure of manifestation we cannot understand more and really myself I don't understand it I am sincere but so it is so it is so the absolute infinite beingness in its divine plan giving to the beings everlasting eternal beings in itself one of the beings is ourselves, our spirit, ego, self and also the holy archangels expressing the real pleasure in creation, in manifestation building universes living forms phenomenal life around us Why? They know why it's also building our bodies to live in it we call it the divine plan I can repeat nobody can understand why and what is this divine plan except that to gain experience to become masters of matter masters of the mind substance, ether and the masters of the nautical mind, super substance to become expert there is no other just purpose in it besides our life our whole life is that living in a material body prepared for us by the holy archangels to live in it not by right by mercy because why it has been given to us we know so little about our material bodies they are caring about it yet we develop in it a kind of personality time and place personality given the mind as substance and as super substance as emotion and as thought to work with it to gain experience again I say Joshua Manuel de Christ gave the parable of the talents there is a purpose in it to work and make them more has been given to us the material body the etheric double the psychical so called body the nautical body to develop them how? now we come to the main point how? the material body we are using it or I rather say we make very bad use of it the material body others care about it others build it others keep it in good order now we as present the personality are expressing emotions desires feelings we have to study them to check them to control them to change them living subconsciously we have to live consciously that means by studying and knowing the nature of our desires of our feelings studying our weaknesses entering in our so called subconsciousness we have to work in it understand what is a desire what is an emotion what is a feeling check it control it change it definitely the feelings are not ourselves though we think we are the feelings this is the great mistake they are not our feelings ourselves because we can change them we can see them we can replace them we have to make use now of the thought to raise our so called waking consciousness to a more how call it conscious consciousness a super consciousness better self consciousness check our thoughts compare the thoughts with the emotions don't think it is an easy work to do it is difficult because all the time that devil we call the personal egoism will interfere and I am satisfied with that I like these emotions I like this way of thinking and you find that you are not the egoism of the personality this is the most precious lesson you get I am not the egoism of my personality I am strong I am the willpower of my real self while my personality which I make the mistake to think it is mine it is rather expressing a kind of unreasonable obstinacy and not right thinking so we have now the right thinking and the way we were thinking the way we are thinking as egoistic persons was leading us all the time into many many troubles pain despair it formulates our way of living the way we are living while we are the life and not the way of living we were living I am living living as everybody else that's my nature now how is my way of living as a personality all of us live the same but all of us are not living in the same way of living which is our emotions our weaknesses our thoughts our intentions you have to check that now here is the point checking all that you find that you are not all that because you can't control them you can't change them you are not the psychical body and you are not the material body and you are not also the ethical body because you are master of the mind as thought after experiencing and checking the emotions and everything this leads you to a very precious conclusion the mind or geist is not the holy spirit the mind or geist is not me it remains I am using to express myself in a certain way what you find more than I 1- Our Material, Psychical, Noetical body Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. God of life, love and mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Today, we will speak more about the bodies. We are using already our material body, our so-called psychical body, and our noetic body. Of course, all wise men in past centuries, not only knew about the existence of these bodies, but they were using them. They were making good use of them. St. Paul mentions these three bodies. You can find this in the New Testament, the letters of St. Paul. We have a material body. We have a psychical body. He is calling it a psychical body also. And a noetic body, we say, St. Paul, is a spiritual body. But to separate it from the spirit, we call it a noetic body, instead of a spiritual body. Because spirit is the absolute beingness. So, the material body of everyone is the same. Bones, the skeleton, flesh, blood, the various organs. Studying the material body of a man, a male person, we know what is the body of a male person. Studying the body of a woman, of a female person, we know what are the bodies of all female persons. So, the material body of man, male or female, is built by the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit according to the divine plan. What is the divine plan for the human being? What we call the idea of man or the heavenly man? God, the Locust, as God-man, honoured this idea of man. And we hear Christ calling himself the son of man. He didn't mean son of Joseph, because he was not the son of Joseph, he was the son of God. But he called himself the son of man, honouring the idea of man, the heavenly man. This was misunderstood by many, thinking that Christ had brothers and sisters, by a father and a mother. Now, the bodies, the material bodies, of all human beings are alike, in form and in constitution, from the same stuff and substance. And the body, the material body of a man and a woman, is built. All the bodies, the human bodies are built. Now, the psychical body, the so-called psychical body, of course, that psychical body is under the same laws. Are the psychical bodies of all human beings, male and female, or male-female, the same? No. Definitely no. Because you cannot find two people expressing the same present-day personality. So, the qualities of the so-called psychical body are our emotions, our desires. We, as present-day personalities, expressing an ego, are living more in our psychical bodies instead of our material bodies. Because a human being knows very, very little about his physical body, how it works, how it's built, how it's kept in good health. Leaving all that to the holy archangels, the lords of the elements, and the holy spirit. Because we can study, and we must study, meditate and know our material bodies. Because it's said that the material body is the temple of God. Yes, definitely. Of our real self. So, now, what about the psychical body? I said in a lesson that when a spirit, ego, self- super-consciousness is going to be humanized or incarnated into a human being, he's accompanied by another archangel from the orders of the thrones, Metatronius, which immediately ego-fight with that spirit, ego of ourselves, to be humanized. Making the other side of the one and the same coin. You can never find a coin unless it has two faces. So, are we that ego, spirit, self-consciousness of that Metatronius ego-fight with us? Are we becoming one? No. Definitely not. Give an example. If I have a candle, and I see the flame, and I make another candle touch it, and meet, and I see one flame. Yet, if I make these two candles apart, I see two flames. Turning them again, I have one flame. But after you have two flames. Though we have one flame, in reality you have two flames. So, the ego-fight, archangel, that Metatronius, is not our self, and is not the twin soul, as many people think. Why? Though, he, let us call him he, is ego-fight, becoming one, by attunement with our spirit ego, self-super-consciousness, yet he keeps his purity and his identity, and keeps it, always. We may live our own life in the material body, in the enoetic body, in our psychical body. He lives with us, not confined only in our bodies, but living at the same time in its own nature. is this archangel, the Metatronius, self-consciousness now, minimized and becoming smaller to our measures, or it is perfect, always. Definitely, that Metatronius, the guardian angel, as we call him, is an archangel of purity. He has never been influenced by the life of the human beings. He is ego-fight with. Why ego-fight then? To understand, guard and guide. Guiding what, Goya? Yes. Though he keeps his purity, he reflects everything human without being himself stained or becoming dirty. Think a big, crystal-clear mirror. You put in front of that mirror many things. You see them in the surface of the mirror. Nice, good things. You see them in the surface of the mirror. Dirty things. Even you see them in the surface of the mirror. Putting any kind of dirt, dirty thing, in front of that mirror, you see it reflected there. Does it make the surface of the mirror dirty? Is anything reflected by a mirror staining or making dirty? The mirror? No. Likewise, everything is known to our guardian angel. Our guardian angel is reflecting everything as thought, emotion, and behavior of our present- day personality. I say, he knows everything, yet he is not stained. He is not influenced. Now, what is the role of the metastronious? Accompanying that ego, spirit, our self-superconsciousness to keep the records, to keep the divine plan, to be in attunement or attunement with the heavenly man, the idea of man, to keep the models. So, when coming down, he is putting in what we call the permanent atom, which is our spirit, ego, self-consciousness, everything concerning the circle of possibilities and existence of our humanization. So, in the guardian angel, we have a perfect noetic body. We have a perfect so-called psychical body. And we have also a perfect image of our material body, on which the holy archangels and the holy spirit are to build the bodies. Now, what about our incarnations and reincarnations? That spirit, ego, self-consciousness of ours, is making a shadow. And that shadow are the bodies and a time and space created personality. Time and space created personality of a man or a woman which is the bodies and a kind of identity which is our ego or I-ness yet colored with that personality. I am Church. We are using our identity, our I-ness, our ego, yet I am Church. The woman will say, I am Mary. I am Mary now and Church are time and space created personalities yet having the divine, eternal I-ness colored now, covered now with the material, the psychical, and the mind body. Now, we can pretend that now I-ness or ego has its own life. In time and space, we get its own experiences. Though our real I or ego is not in it to have an experience. Our soul is perfect. So is also our spirit, ego, self-super-consciousness. But our inner self is allowing its reflection to live its own life. Now, who is responsible for the behavior of a present-day personality? Our soul, ego, self-consciousness? No. Is the father responsible of what the prodigal son was supposed to get experiences? No. There is not any sinful soul. The God in every present-day personality, God, is not sinful. There is not sinful soul. The soul of everyone is perfect without any sin or stain. But, yet, it lives its reflection to get its own experiences. Then, who will be saved, according to the Church, in the last day, as they say? Yes, that I-ness of the present-day personality. That will be saved. The present-day personality is the prodigal son. Of princely nature, because everyone is using that word I am. This I-ness, giving him the self-consciousness, is divine. So, we must have in mind, who is going to return there? Definitely, the prodigal son has to return back home. Which means that I-ness of George and Mary will return. And that I-ness is responsible and has to get experiences. So, we see now the role of Metatronius. Having the records and the plan, the divine plan, ecophied with the man, is to follow that spirit in its teachings, expression, in time and space, and keep the records. So, the present-day personality is given a perfect shape of the numerical body, yet the material of it is to be shaped by a human being and his experiences in time and space. Also, a perfect psychical body, and yet, in it the material to be used to shape it in that form. Do we have truth and psychical bodies? Yes! A perfect, which we should be and the mass which we must shape. You have one material body, yet you have two so-called psychical bodies and two nautical bodies. One kept in the guardian angel and the other, the staff of it, you have to shape it. This is given to the present-day personality. So, what is reincarnation? Experiences, many, many experiences. Now, the eye of George and of Mary must become a kind of sculptor. They get the material, they see the model, make it. Make it as perfect as you can. And enter in it to go to deification. And so, from incarnation to incarnation, breaking what we have done, not resembling completely to the model, we are given new staff, new material body, new staff, new so- called psychical body to start working in it. And a new nautical body. So, we are the spirit, ego, self-super-consciousness, having in us the model and the guardian angel egotized with us to guard and guide. Guide in which way? Leaving us alone to get our own experiences. Only when we overdo it, then the guardian angel is interfering and is interfering us, we feel it as stinks of consciousness. Then and only then, when we overdo it, the guardian angel is interfering. So, the guardian angel, Metastronio Secovite, keeps the clean records and images and likenesses. Where are they? In us again. Because we are the permanent atom. Everything is in the permanent atom. Our ego, our I-ness all the time. So, a fellow passes over. The guardian angel is accompanying him in the psychical plane. The same way he was guarding him on the material plane, he is guarding him in the psychical plane. Now it's the time to show him what he has written and what he should have written. Make the comparison. Casting away even the psychical body later, he will be in the hypnotic body. There again, the same guardian angel will guard him and guide him. Guide him and cool the soul. No, it's a reflection of the present personality. And then, after getting the experiences of that present personality, maybe, if it's necessary, we'll have a period of sleep. Maybe? No. Then be reincarnated, reincarnated, in putting on the permanent atom now, what kind of material will make its material body, its psychical body, its hypnotic body? That means the new reincarnation. And that I-ness now feeling different to the previous one, yet one. Feeling not completely responsible for the force of previous incarnation, yet responsible will start from where it had stopped. Its work has finished a day at school. You'll go back home. The next day, return again to the same classroom to continue its lessons. So, every incarnation is a day at school. Are we punished by what you call mistakes? No. If the guardian angel all the time interferes, showing us the models what we should do, it's not punishment. It's love. It's care. Now, we spoke about the holy guardian angel, the only one, ecophyte, becoming in some way one with us. Michael's, Gabriel's, Raphael's, Uriel's, and all other authors, Cherub's and Seraph's, are not ecophyte. They are keeping their own nature. They are workers. They work for the building up of the bodies. They are the lords of the elements. In the body, material, it's etheric double. Psychical, it's etheric double. The neurotic body, and so on. There is one Michael. Billions and billions and billions of Michaels. Yet for every living being, human or of the animal kingdom, there is a Michael. The lord of light, fire, and heat. There is one Gabriel. The lord of liquids, and a Raphael. The lord of etheric vitality, energy. Magnetism, electricity, call it whatever you like. Call it energy. And a balancer, Uriel, who is the lord of metabolism in the material body. To put the elements in harmony. And so it's built the material body. Who is the supervisor? These are the workers. Wise, of course, definitely. But who is the foreman of all this work done in all the human bodies and the bodies of the animal kingdom? The absolute beingness itself, with its expression as total wisdom, total love, and total force of might. We call it the holy spirit. So, one, by observation, meditation, and realization, will come in conscious contact with this holy brothers of ours, the archangels, and the holy spirit. Because they are in our bodies. Only an innocent person cannot detect and understand that great work done in its material body. But still, greater work is done in the so-called psychical body. We said in a lesson that the material body definitely should be built in a kind of mold. That mold is the so-called etheric double. We, as researchers, should know not only its existence, but how to use it. And then, after that, we should know about the existence of our psychical body and we'll find out we are face-to-face now with our subconsciousness. And this is our task. To see the nature that present moment we are searching of our subconsciousness. We said this subconsciousness is the sum total of the elementals we have created in the past. In this incarnation and even in previous incarnations also. So, now, what is expected from the Holy Archangel, our guardian angel of us to do? Just to understand who we are as the entities which can think, study and understand. We should just stand before that quality of our so-called psychical body and start work. That means start to analyze our emotions, desires and of course the outcome of it. Our behavior, weaknesses, way of behaving, anger, hatred and all that. And start now knowing the present state of our psychical body and make corrections. How? By being influenced by the perfect psychical body, again in us, which is not for us to use, but to use it as a model to shape the stuff, the psychical stuff to make it like the bright, brilliant, psychical body model of our guardian angel. What is the role of our guardian angel? Does our guardian angel interfere? Is he interfering? Indirectly, yes. Directly, no. Why? Not directly. Because even to the present day personality in us is given the freedom to decide. We are not poised in the hands of our guardian angel or of any other intelligence. We are free. Free to choose, but face the responsibilities. This is the duty of every researcher after the truth. To analyze his emotions, desires, way of living, way of behaving and consult even subconsciously his guardian angel. When we will get that decision, then the guardian angel will help. He's keeping the records. He's keeping the purity of these bodies. We see it subconsciously. But he's not telling us anything. Follow it or not. That's up to you. You face the consequences. But if you ask me, then I will help you. So, the same way we are given the noetic stuff. Our noetical body. Now, what about the purity of our noetic body? And what about the purity of our so- called psychical body? Now, our noetic body and our psychical body are making what we call our subconsciousness. Which is the storehouse of all the elementals we have created and are creating every moment subconsciously. Now, consciously we have to study their nature and their purity. And make corrections. In how? We'll make corrections. In dis-energizing those torturing us and standing in front of us on our way and replacing them with now consciously created new elementals pure and clean. Now, it's not enough to dis-energize an elemental which is torturing you without creating an opposite elemental of purity to take its place. Otherwise, it's much easier that elemental which has been dis-energized to be re-energized by you. So you have to fill the place of it in your subconscious. So, now, we know that we have a material body which by mistake we think it's our self. Yes, yet it isn't. It is ours. Not we. We have it's etheric double which you have to study and work with it for our material body and for the others. Now, I'm speaking about the psychotherapists. You have to study what's energy, wherefrom we are getting this energy, the nature of this energy. Then I said, we have to analyze say, our behavior. Analyze our emotions, desires, thoughts. And see what we can do. You will see all around you that all people are not in the same condition in this life. They have body similar in composition, yet they are different as personalities. Yet, inside every present day personality of a man or a woman is the I-ness, the ego. Ego now, in two forms. Shadow in the mirror of time and space which are egoists and ourselves reflected in that mirror. Have this in your mind. We are reflected in our egos. But we are not the egoists that are lost before a mirror. Gazing on the face of that mirror and say, yes, I am that, showing the reflection in the mirror. We are not that. Because if I break the mirror, the Holy Archangels and God is doing it by taking us out of our material position, passing over. Yet, we must have that in our mind. We are not the reflection on the surface of a mirror. This is what we have to find out. So, I have showed ways how to separate and know now the difference between the ego and egoists. We have to do that. There is no other way. There is no other way to free ourselves from the illusions of time and space and being influenced by the egoists. Now, in studying our egoists, that means the behavior of our egoists, not our behavior, what do you see? Is the egoism expressing a kind of willpower? On this point, I want you just to think. Does our egoism possess a willpower? Do we express the willpower? Is the willpower our nature as gods? Definitely, it should be. Because out of the qualities and natures of the absolute beginners, is the will, the willpower. Now, is our egoism expressing the willpower? No. It is expressing what I would call obstinacy and bad habit, not willpower. We can use the willpower to change things. In meditation, observation, and realization of the truth, we have the willpower to disenergize our elementals, which compose the egoists. Yes, we meet an obstinacy of those elementals, that means of our egoists. But you can cope with that obstinacy, which is not the willpower. We express the willpower. Because if that was not the case, human beings could never go forward and change. So, we must deprive from the egoists that obstinacy which we may mistake as willpower. They are not a willpower to the egoists. Now, what happens if we trace the egoists in certain of its expressions? What we will observe that the egoists will present itself claiming that it is our self. That is the point we have just to say no, no, no, no. You are not me. Yes, you are a creation in time and space of mind in the way you yourself is shaping it and not myself. But you are not myself. I am life and you are not life. You are a phenomenon in time and space which changes all the time. This is what I call observation and self-realization. That's what you mean by self- upliftment or spiritual development. But unless we do it in this way, don't expect any success because one should be definitely sincere with himself. Who? Yes, the present day personality, I in S, now tracing the truth and turning its face towards her own self. This is what one sincerely should do. 1- Out of the Labyrinth and into the light I Now, we have two ways, nature and ourself. What is a human being now? We are human beings, but what is a human being? They said, starting a man or a woman, the life in their bodies, we know what is a woman or a man in their bodies, in their material bodies. But what about the character? Can you know all male or all female persons by studying Mary or George? No. Now, we have to study what is the self in a personality. You have to study now this kind of self, colored, not bright color, but colored. Study that. And start to separate what is common and what is personal. Now, this is interesting us now. We leave nature around us for the time being, though a seeker of the truth is doing both. By observation, studying and using the mind, he is studying everything taking place around him. Because unless he will do that on the material plane, he will not just have that tendency of observing things in the other planes. Don't think by studying a book or yoga, just knowing that there are centers on the material body, or rather on the etheric double of the material body, called chakras. We call them centers of energy. And opening them, and this and that, you will be self- conscious in the psychical plane. Nothing more misleading and stupid. Because I have seen many, many people who happen to get a book on yoga from this, trying, as they say, to wake up their chakras, who became neurasthenic. We are getting many, many letters for the day. Oh, it has opened the Kundalini, or that, and that, and that, and that. And what I see is forms of schizophrenia. These things lead to schizophrenia and neurasthenia. Not that these centers do not exist, they do exist, but it is under the authority of the holy archangels of the creation, doing the whole work. And the seekers of the truth should be serious to observe this creative work in their bodies, and then understand and cooperate with them. And not just try to violate the laws of nature. So, it is by observation, introspection, and using the mind in the proper way that you can find yourself self-conscious in the psychical plane. And make what we call exosomatosis, meaning knowing, having the self-consciousness independent from the material body, and not by other means, which are leading, I said, to neurasthenia. So, these are the means we will be using. Our divine nature of observation, and learning how to use the super-substance of the mind, the greatest gift given to human beings by the Father God, so that we just see the truth and proceed now with reverence. Because nature, even the material plane, for a true seeker of the truth, is a church, a temple of God, and should live just in a serious way of studying and understanding the ways of the absolute infinite beingness, if God is tempting some, the creators, and the creator. So, what is the duty of every reasonable human being? And what human beings calling themselves intelligent and reasonable today are doing? Joshua Manuel de Christ spoke about all these things. He said, what is the nature of a human being now, as a man or a woman, being born, growing, growing, growing, and what? In growing, as a man or a woman, in their environment, in their family, in their home, in their society, are to do to increase within them that feeling of possessiveness, catching, getting, and calling that and that thing their own? Now, by observation, we will find out what creates this feeling of ownership and enslaving the mind in this, I'll call it tendency, not to say desire. You must understand the difference between these two words. In this way, we start to study the character of the human beings, not only one, all of them, because all of them are under the same influences, under the same impressions, living today. So we have just to say, what is desire? What is the human body? We have to study the human body. By studying the human body and the total wisdom of the Holy Archangels of Creation working in our material body. Just study this thing, a book on anatomy. What do we find out? That we are not the human body. Because the human body of any human being, man or a woman, is the same always. The same is the body of a woman with the bodies of every other woman. It is the same the body of a man with the bodies of every other man. It is shorter, taller, that plays no difference. You know what is a male person? You know what is a female person? This is the common thing in human beings. But now we are coming to another branch of study. I don't say that we will leave that behind, not study it. The same way we are studying what is going on in the nature all around us. That our nature, divine nature of observation, we should use it any moment. To use it in what we call waking consciousness. Now, and just get the habit of using it during the time your present personality is sleeping, going to the other dimensions. So, what is now desire? And what is this desire doing? Is desire always a sin? A necessity? You have just to study it. You should not just jump from impression to impression and reach to wrong conclusions. You have to study the nature of desire. What it is? It is our so-called psychical body. We find our psychical body. And what we find? That we are using this psychical body all the time, subconsciously, without knowing its existence. But using it. And being under its influence. So we have to wake up. Know who we are and get control of this psychical body. But you cannot do that unless you have mastered already the physical body. Studying what is the physical body. Who am I? And what I am in that material body, using it. So I shall study the nature of other bodies, of the psychical body. So I have to just step by step using the observation and the reasonable thinking as meditation, to know as much as I can know of the relative truth concerning the matter I am studying. So a seeker of the truth should study what is desire. You say, what is desire now? I am telling you. Both an angel and a devil. And who is making that angel a devil? You. By becoming a devil, you make it a devil. But being or becoming an angel, it is an angel. So the desire is a mirror in which you reflect your own self. But now we come to another confusing point. Which self? But is that image I see in this mirror of desire really my self? Because we will not extend on this matter now. I say, by studying, I find that similar to this kind of expression of a personality I call desire, I see that combined to it is the way of thinking. And you find out that you have been misusing subconsciously this divine gift of the mind as thought and slaving it to the desires. That is making the desire a devil. Under the reasonable thinking of a reasonable being it is a blessing. It is a necessity and not a curse. Then I find out that apart from what I call desire, now studying the psychical body which has its form because everything to exist must have a form. I see that I find myself in another body. What we call the nautical body. The mind body. I can't just use the word mind body because in mind body I have also the nautical not only the nautical body. The higher mental as some people call it. So we have just to study its nature and what it is. What is the mind? Not now the mind as the super substance but as I made it part of myself. My mind. I got a drop of this mind from the ocean of the mind they have colored it now in a hot way. Of my present personality. My weaknesses, my vices, my virtues. Many, many things. So now myself using again observation and the right thinking by coloring the mind and seeing what is behind the mind as my desire. What do I find? My own personality. Now here is the critical point. My own personality. But who is doing it and what is that my present day personality as mind and emotion? Then you separate yourself from that. I was making the mistake to think that that kind of personality the sinful personality the transgressing personality is not the reality myself. I am something else. Then you feel dual while you are one. You make the mistake that your so-called egoism of the personality is yourself. But it is not yourself. Now you are reasoning. Now we give exercises which make you by introspection observation and meditation to separate this petty call it selfhood which is the present day personality from your real self. Your real majestic divine self which is God, you. Not God in you, but you. Then it is the time to understand who you are as a soul self. Now studying the personality you can study your petty self as a man or as a woman in the phenomenon of life. But now reaching this point finding your soul self there is no sex there. When they have asked Christ once Who are you? He didn't say I am Joshua, Emmanuel I am a human being. He had shown how to think. He said to the Jews in Aramaic I am what I am. And in Greek because he was speaking the Greek language being a sin himself. The mother language of Christ was Greek and Aramaic. He was speaking as the soul and the soul of a male or a female person has no sex. But it's an archangel. It is that kind of self we should find as being ourselves that self disentangling our real self from the image we see in the mirror of emotion and of thought. And what is God doing to us every few years? We see as ourselves a distorted image of ourselves in the threefold mirror of matter, emotion and thought. You look at it. You have to clean that mirror to see yourself. You see it much distorted. You see it now like a monster. Looking there you make the mistake to see I am that. The desires, the weaknesses, the emotions the thoughts on this or that matter like that. God is breaking those threefold mirrors every few years. Is God evil or most merciful? Most merciful. To make us sleep, see better and clearer and then giving us another mirror and another mirror and another mirror to make it more clean. We have to make it clean to see ourselves reflected in it properly. That means incarnation. So, what is the real gain of a seeker of the truth? Man or a woman? To find the real self. To find the self reflected on the mirror and not make the mistake that the image in the mirror is the self. And one of the aims of the seeker of the truth is just to annihilate his personal egoism because unless the personal egoism is exterminated annihilated the real self, the son of the real self will not arise. And you will make the mistake that you are desires you are thoughts, you are emotions. When I gave this lesson before some years to the inner circle a fellow who is a poet told me, you know, you have destroyed everything good in me. I said, why? You deprived me of my emotions and of my thoughts. What remains to me? I said, your own self remains to you. Just find that self and you will understand that you are not losing anything. You are gaining everything. Because you think what you are gaining just because you, the self as the sun shine there and you know you get notice of what you see. Be the sun yourself and you can have everything. Know what is what Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said the kingdom of the heavens which is in us. He described them. And what did he say? Seek the kingdom of the heavens and you are losing everything. Did he say that? No. Seek the kingdom of the heavens and everything is yours. It is a great mistake to think that reaching that stage it means throwing away everything. It is just clear that you have different now things to love. Higher things to love. That's true. And things that now are interesting you will not mean much to you. But reaching that, everything is yours. Seek the kingdom of the heavens and everything will be added to you. Everything. And you have to select. Suppose you are a child, a boy and you have marbles playing and playing and playing and collecting stamps and getting stamps and you make a nice book with collection of stamps and you grow up. You don't need anymore collecting stamps. Now you are collecting money. Banknotes. Pieces of paper which are called money. For me it is not much of a difference. But there is a difference for the people. Collecting stamps and now collecting money. But as one day this fellow now collecting money and banknotes and everything those stamps mean nothing to him. Believe me someday when you have the heavenly things all these things on the material plane will mean nothing to you. So you are not losing anything. You are gaining everything. Well, am I losing all this? Who is just depriving a millionaire to get again the book of his stamps and enjoy his stamps if he wishes to? Nobody. You don't need to throw away things. You can have everything. What you are losing is the fascination of things. And what did the Lord Buddha Bodhisattva Buddha was teaching? Disentangling yourself from the illusions. But do now Buddhists know the truth that this great Lord and Master had taught the world? Disattachment? I don't believe that all of them know it. As all Christians, most of the Christians have lost the sense and the truth in Christianity so the Buddhists have lost most of them the real teaching and sense of Buddha. Because if you know the truth behind the teachings of both the Lord Buddha the Enlightened One and Joshua the Christ, the God-man it's the same thing. The same truth revealed. A fellow Buddhist one day taught me Oh, pity you are not a Buddhist, sir. And you are a Christian. I said, who taught you I am not a Buddhist? He said, are you a Buddhist? I said, definitely I am. There may be better Buddhists than you are. But are you not a Christian? Of course I am a Christian. But now I don't see any difference in the truth. Truth is not the monopoly of certain people colouring it according to their ideas. So the seeker of the truth should see the truth as it is. What is the truth? God is love. Just under this light you can see clearer everything. When the sun of love rises you can see everything nicely. If there is darkness and you go with a candle in your hand a coloured candle, you will see things in a different way. In your own way. So, wisdom comes to a human being every human being if he or she wishes to see the truth by observation making reasonable use of the mind concentrating on the things one wants to study but freeing himself at that time from all illusions and attachments on things influencing him or her. That means taking away the personal egos. What do I call this work? The system of the seekers of the truth the science of sciences because the highest science is to know the self the expression of the self the local self and our place in that kind of selfhood and just clean. Now somebody says shall we give up our so-called personal self, the egoism? I say no. Annihilate its expression because in it to exist as egoism in a person as part of it as yourself you are that and you are not What you are not, take it away and live what you are. Now it is difficult to understand that before exercising separating the real self, its nature from its expression. Tomorrow the lesson will be more on the use of the mind. I will make an exercise. Relax completely your material body Relaxing it shows that you are a god and that material body of yours given to you feeling you are living in it is yours now make it yours. The holy archangels creating this material body and everything most wisely in the material body will not object, calling it yours but deserve to be the master of this material body. Feel that you are in the material body relaxing it completely absolute relaxation you are breathing now breathing deeply but comfortably you can select the rhythm of your breathing breathe deeply and the time you are breathing feel you are in the lungs but at the same time you are feeling you are in the lungs you can feel you can be everywhere in your body the air and the oxygen is going only in the lungs in and out but something else you are feeling that is your etheric double the whole body the time now you are breathing and the air is confined only in the lungs getting in and out you can feel the whole body be in your whole body in the fingers, in the face, in the feet everywhere feel now you are in the body and feel that is yours also this is the etheric double you are concentrated on the aesthetic or feeling giving ether it is not only the air and oxygen that matters but also the etheric vitality you are using it subconsciously now you can use it consciously just feel in your body you are breathing oxygen etheric vitality and God, Life you are breathing etheric vitality and through the lungs but at the same time you breathe it with your whole etheric double feeling it you feel it this is the super substance of the mind uncolored now what I tell you is rather difficult and it needs much practice but I will say that and feel it we are in God God is everywhere in us out of our bodies and in our bodies feel it I don't say him feel God as the highest intelligence to which you can attune yourself enjoying total wisdom its almightyness its total love that he understands and he feels what you are feeling now it is stupid to believe that the one who gave you the eyes to see is not seeing the one who gave you the ears to hear is not hearing the one who gave you that handful of matter you call brains to think with is not thinking you can talk to him, he is talking to you just listen Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, the God man spreading his hands out to the Essenes was saying I am the Lord you are God in you you are God in you you are beingness and the locals were saying I am the Lord, you are God in you you are a human being self just enjoy that human beingness self try to understand what is life what is you are soul in life and free yourself from the false impression that you are an isolated personality having a name of a man or a woman Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said you are God's offsprings of the infinite Father find your immortal everlasting self life those who believe in me and know me will taste no death but will live in eternity breathe deeply comfortably feel your heart and clean it to reflect love nothing except love love to all human beings 1- Out of the Labyrinth and into the light II Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation. Deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Lighten our minds to understand you as the truth. You are manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Many people in the past, wise people, wanted just to know the truth. What is life? Who is man as a human being on the planet? What is life in the manifestations of life, in all the phenomena of life all around us? Yes, these were the wise ones. Very few. Most of the people at all times had different things to engage themselves and their minds with. Delusions. Just the way they were living. Living subconsciously under the impulses of their time and place, let us call it self. Why not self? And we call it self because in reality it is the reflection of the self and not the self. It is that reflection on the mirrors of matter, that image in the mirrors of matter, emotion, and thought, the mind, that we make the mistake to think that it is our self, which it is not. So, if you ask any man, any person, male or female, around you, what is life? The only thing he will say, I am living, that is what I know, that I am living. Yes, but tell me what is life? They cannot say. Then we ask something else. Instinctively, people believe out of necessity to the existence of a god. Why? How did this idea about the existence of a god or gods came to the human beings? We said out of necessity. During the past, from the time of the cavemen, the human beings were facing many, many dangers. They were feeling that they couldn't cope with life alone. They wanted to find something or somebody to help them superior to their power of just to cope with life. So, that necessity made the human beings create gods of their own imagination. And studying just this matter, in the past, we find out that human beings at all times, in all periods of time, have created such gods, which were having their own characteristics. Their cruelty, their vices, everything. Now, while studying this thing, we will find it out. And we'll understand by the gods. These people, on certain periods of time, they are worshipping, are reflecting their own character, their own way of living. But what is interesting is not the gods. The gods, the stuff they are made of, is the same. All the gods who have existed during all the time in the period. But the gods are different now. Different names. They get names. They give them names. And the way they needed them to help them. Of course, now we know what were those gods. And I'm asking you, did these gods in the past, all these gods, all over the world, in all the periods and in all the places on the planet, did they exist? How many are these gods? Thousands of gods. Some we know the names, some we don't know. Did they exist? I'm telling you, yes, they do exist even now. They existed and they exist. What were those gods? Mind. Shaped, taking the form and the characteristics of those creating them. Now we know, because now we know what is the mind. A super substance. It's one of the studies a seeker of the truth must engage himself with to know what is the mind. It's another branch of study. But we know that subconsciously the human being on the planet, all the time, from the primitive man of the caves living, was using the mind subconsciously, without knowing it. You say now, are people now not using again the mind subconsciously? I say 80% of their life is subconscious, which they call it waking life, but not self-conscious life. Now, who said? We live. Nobody can deny that. He is living. Breathing, walking, under the same niche, just to keep the material body alive. This is the instinct. We call that instinctive consciousness. Many human beings are living. That's life. The phenomenon of life. Human being is one of the billions and billions and billions of the phenomenon of life on the planet. But what's the difference between a human being and all the other phenomenon of life around us, on the planet? It's life. We said yesterday that the rocks are living, the crystals are living. What science says, inorganic matter is living. It's undergoing certain changes. Then we have from that inorganic matter, we call it matter, in reality it is mind solid. We see the elements, water and all other things, there is life in them, there is life in the water, in the seas, in the lakes, in the oceans, everywhere there is life. Then I see life on the land. Billions and billions and billions of phenomena of life in the vegetable kingdom. We said we have also life in the animal kingdom. Again billions of phenomena of life. But what is the place of a human being in all these phenomena of life? What we are like all the other phenomena of life and what we are different from the other phenomena of life? What are the similarities? Now this is something a seeker of the truth has by observation and using the mind in the right way, meditation, to reach at least the relative truth for the time being. Which means that the human being can use the mind in a different way than the other phenomena of life around him are using the mind. Though subconsciously he is doing that, he expresses a kind of self, time and place based self, which the animals around us are not using, are not expressing. They are living, they are expressing life, they are just expressing not a kind of self but a kind of living existence. Now what are the things that are common between us and all the other animal life and vegetable life? All phenomena of life to exist, now we enter in the world of existence, should definitely have a form. Nothing can exist without having its own form. Not one form, there are billions and billions and billions of forms. An ant, a worm, a plant, a flower, an animal, any animal, any kind of animal, everywhere to exist should have a form and get a name. A name. Who is giving this a name? When I say having a name, I don't mean the name we are giving to that phenomenon of life. Its name is different from that phenomenon of life having a name, because names are words, sounds and so on. Something, different people are giving different words. Water, Nero, Moya, Aqua, it's the same thing. Yet the name is different. But what is the real name of everything having a form? It's vibrations. And not these sounds we are using just to give a name to the things. So, nothing in nature has its proper name. You are giving it a name. But of course, everybody is seeing a glass of water. Doesn't matter if an Englishman will say, oh it's water, there is an aqua. I say, Nero, what is just the impressions giving water to a human being? That's its name. The vibrations and the ability of knowing and understanding what it is. So, for everything we should enter in the meaning of that thing and not simply in the words used by certain people for something. Now, what's the name? Not in words, but in reality, common to everything around us. The meaning given to us with the words we are using, meaning life. Even for that we are using different words. So, I'm asking you now, what is life? Can you understand what is life? To understand, yes. To know, not yet. But we can know sometime. For the time being, that petty kind of self, each one of us is expressing, making the mistake to think that it is our self, cannot know great truths. But even so, the heart of our time and place based petty self is the self. Now, we study more deeply the problem. If I have 20 people here, men and women, and ask them, who are you? Everybody will give me the correct answer, veiled with an illusion. Which is the correct answer? When I ask somebody, who are you? He says, I am George. The other, I am Peter. The other, no, I am Alex. I am Mary. I am Helen. I laugh and I say, yes. You started well, finishing with an illusion. Everybody said, I am. That's your name. That's what you are. The other is artificial. You may say, I am a man. I am a male person. I am a woman. Even so, these are characteristics of the phenomenon of life of a human being on the planet now, today. We study, why? Why it has been a man and a woman? Then looking around in nature, I see these two kinds of the nature of life. I can see it in the animals, male and female. I can see it in plants. I can see it everywhere. Now, it's another branch of study. Why? This is why you are said, just to have a manifestation of life as a phenomenon, I must have the two, let us call them poles. They say positive and negative. No. Positive and counter positive. They are not negative. It is wrong expression. Positive and counter positive. And then it continues again, just in great numbers and when you see it, what is positive is the counter positive of something, further and before it. And then, when you go there, the positive becomes counter positive. So, it's positive in a different expression. But I have now what are called the duality. I'm afraid I'm not allowed to speak more about this duality because you enter to the divine mathematics. Divine knows much. It can even make materializations and dematerializations. So, I stop to this point. What I can say is that the law of duality is necessary for the manifestation of the phenomenon of life and maybe the creativeness in it, maybe. Now, we are living on the planet, being either a man or a woman, having the attraction, live this common life, union and making a family and children. This you can find it in all the countries, all around the planet, in the world. So, we study what we call general things and behavior in life, but we shall start to understand what is life. Life is far different to what I call way of living. What we have common is life. But we have the way of living which is very different. The way of living of one person from the other, of a man from another man, of a woman from another woman. So, a seeker of the truth is studying all these things by observation and right thinking and meditation, which means that a human being is different from other phenomenon of life around us. Just lambs and cows and dogs are living, but they never engage. They are phenomenon of life, I don't call it self. With these problems, all dogs are living, animals are living their own life. They don't care and they don't bother about what is life. But a human being now faces different problems. Who am I? What am I? Which means this, just I call it tendency of knowing, of using better the super substance of the mind, which is not the mind ourself. It is the means we will use. It's giving certain characteristics to this form of life I call a human being, which is leading us to the same conclusions always, to the conclusions all these wise ones have come to through the centuries, to understand what is self. Now, this is a very, very difficult problem and matter to deal with. What's the self? And why it is difficult? Because human beings make the mistake to think as themselves, their own self, their reflection on the mirrors, the mirrors of the mind as matter, emotion and thought. So it needs just much observation and hard thinking, deep thinking to find out, but who am I? Am I that reflection or I am something else? Reflecting a kind of time and place self on these mirrors of the mind I call material body, psychical body, body of emotions, the ethical body, the body of thoughts. If I tell you, yes, you make the mistake to think that these mirrors is yourself. Shall you accept it? Many are willing to accept it. When they say I, they show on their material body and they think that their material body is the self. Now they say, how do we come out of this labyrinth, of this maze of illusions? By breaking the mirrors. God is doing it every few years for us, to wake us up. You are not what you think you are, but slowly, slowly, slowly to understand that we are the real self and we have just to take out from our self what we think is our self, the things we are covering ourselves with. Nobody is ready now, living in a material body, to accept that he is not the material body and that kind of self expressed as emotions and thoughts. Yet this is the truth. So, what is the work of a seeker of the truth? To start studying its image, the reflection in the mirrors, that is the material body. Study the emotions, everybody's own emotional life and make comparisons. They begin to compare the material body with the material bodies of others. Now, compare the emotional life everybody is living. And then there will be a burning why. Why that and why that and why that? What it gives this kind of character to this person, male or female? And then, is that my only expression as a self, as a human being? No. It is the way of thinking now. But people are not thinking in the same way and then study the union of thought and emotion and then separate them to study them separately. It's all the time the mind. Yes, it is the mind, but it is the different expressions of the mind now. I have it as an emotion and I have it now as thought. And what am I doing? Mixing them up, mixing water with earth, both clean and nice, to make a bad smelling mud. That's what we are doing, human beings, by mixing up matter, the emotions and the thoughts in a way which is not the proper way, you are creating that muddy, bad smelling self of yours, which I call it part of the subconsciousness. We are using many times this word human subconsciousness, but very few know what we really mean when we say subconsciousness, subconscious way of living a man is not only vices, weaknesses, sins, and the evil way. The seeker of the truth by observation and hard thinking, this is what we call subconsciousness, the time and place, space expression of the superconsciousness, because it is through the subconsciousness whole you will enter in the superconscious existence and beingness. I think it's rather difficult to understand what I mean now, but you will know it after you practice what I call the right meditation, always the observation in it, and hard thinking, in what I call introspection. Now again in introspection, all the life of human beings now today, it's being out of their real self, and being influenced and enchanted by the phenomena of the world outside of themselves, the phenomena of life all around us, and of course these influences on the petty time and place kind of self is destroying the interest of this self. The fellow just sees that around us is matter, matter in various ways of existing, subconsciously, emotionally, he feels first of all the need to know what it is, anything around us, we call that desire. So a human being, a man or a woman is under the influence and the pressure of what we call desire without knowing what is desire, because if they knew they wouldn't just give up and surrender to desire so easily, they should study it before. So this kind of desire at first of knowing what it is, we approach, we see, we touch it, we are using the other senses, not only sight. First of all a human being doesn't care to know what he's seeing, to study that, so there are many, many things one should know. Now touching and finding something, something, the beginning, all created by the holy archangels in nature or around us, at the beginning, the desire becomes a need. The man thinks it's a need, in reality it is not a need, but it's just an influence of having it, at first knowing it, getting knowledge of its existence and then having it later. Man created from matter and from what he found already in nature, diamonds, jewels, precious stones, all are already made and make something that he thinks it's nice for him to make and then that thing again, because that's the nature of matter, has in it just this influence to influence people to have it. It exercises this influence, everything around us, on human beings, seeing things, to have them, at first to know what they are, what it is, and then have them. Now a thinker of this too must find out what is this feeling of possessiveness, from where it comes, and where this feeling of possessiveness is leading us to, to a crime maybe, sometimes, many times, stealing, or thinking probably how I will have what I call the legal ways of having it, buying it, having the means of buying it, but there are many, many things a seeker of it too has to engage himself with, to know. First of all, what is desire, and how that feeling, let us call it feeling, is impressing and affecting me as a seeker of the truth. Now, more sober and visible thought now, using now what I said, observation, it is not only the think, it is the how, which means the thought, how can I have it? What subconsciously a human being is doing, or nearly all human beings have done until now, enslaving subconsciously what I call the super substance of the mind, making mind and thought slave of the emotion, of that desire, to serve the desire, instead of the mind being the master, now it is not the servant, the slave, that's what's wrong. And, of course, in the process of all these things, this petty time and place kind of personality, which is not the real self, is entangled to it. Now we find a person, a man or a woman, just in this maze, in this labyrinth, of illusions. Now we see the petty time and place self-reflected in the three mirrors, matter, the material body, things all around us, the material things, the emotions, the feelings, and their influences on us, having it, getting it, possessing it, that we have many, many, many things we can have. If somebody else is depriving us from that something, we call it ours. Now it's a different thing, by what right we call it ours. With this feeling of possessiveness, we have also this illusion of calling things ours, as belonging to us. If somebody will deprive us of something, the last thing, a jewel, a house, something else, what is now the reaction in that petty time and place personality? Now this is something we must study. That reaction, creating what? Enmity, hatred, and who are these things leading to? Leading to a seeker of the truth just to learn the ways human beings are living. We said life is common and general, but the way people are living is different. Now we have to separate these two things, life itself and the way of living. That life, I said, is common. Nobody cares to know what is life. Everybody cares about his way of living, but life is everlasting, continuous. The way of living is not, and especially if one entangles himself with the things which are impressing him or her. Property, possessions, and all these things. And Joshua Manuel de Christ said a parable. Someone said I had a very, very good harvest this time. He had, no, God had everything. He had everything ready. And where shall I store up all these possessions of mine? I'll just build other barns, storehouse, to collect these things of mine. And as he was thinking, he heard God saying, foolish person, tonight they ask from you to give your soul. All these things you have prepared belong to whom? Because in this parable to show that everything around us is not our self. We care about everything, to know what it is, to be under the illusions of possessiveness. And we don't care who we are, what we are. And thinking that our self, our soul, our being is everything around us, loving that, we lose it. And hating what we are, our inner life, we gain it. If you hate the outside expression of life. He said that in Greek. He who loves his expression as himself, thinking it is his soul, will lose it. We are living now in the world of existence, in the world of the continuous change. But one who doesn't care about it, hates all these things, doesn't like these things, will find out who is he as his soul. But how many really did understand what Joshua Manuel the Christ said at that time? We know, we know, just to some degree we know, because we make mistakes. What exists in the world or around us? Through the five senses. And then we know again, by study and observation, that we know these things by using the mind. What is the mind? Even if you ask a scientist today, I have put this question to certain psychiatrists. I said, what is the mind? Shoot me in the head. I said, no, there is a handful of earth, of soil, which you call brains, and that's not the mind, that's not your mind. Because we will study that handful of matter, which is the brains in the head, in the mind. Well, it is similar to all persons. Yet, the one is so different from the other. The mind of the one is so different from the mind of the other. So, we must know and understand what is the mind. Now this is the most, most important thing, the most difficult thing, even for the seekers of the truth to understand. What is the mind? You have given the definition, but you must enter in the real meaning of the definition. What did we say in the lesson? That when the absolute infinite beingness, God the Father, in it, apart from its nature of self-sufficiency, is also, quote I will call, the pleasure of expressing itself in itself. We say that even in the prayer we are saying in the morning. So, I see two different natures, the absolute infinite beingness. There are many, many more. Human beings with their human intelligence can understand all these two states of the absolute beingness. The absolute beingness, in its pleasure of expressing itself in itself, becomes the absolute infinite beingness, the manifestation, the locus. What concerns us is this absolute infinite beingness, because it is not easy to know what is the beingness. But we can know much what is the beingness, which is the locus humanized to Jesus Christ, to Joshua Emmanuel. We find a gate now towards the beingness. That was the aim of the gate as a human being to the absolute infinite beingness, his nature, as ancient AI, that means as the locus. We are calling ourselves Christians. We are not. We are far, far away from the truth concerning Christianity and the teachings of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, the God-man. He came to show us who we are and what we are supposed to be now. So, using the mind, which we should know the nature of the mind as a super substance, we are using it already subconsciously. But we have to use it consciously. They come to the point, they have started all the gods which have been created by human beings. All through these years of the life on the planet are made subconsciously from the human beings, from the mind. And the mind is living. Therefore, whatever comes out of a living substance does live even now. There is no death in it. All those gods are now living as elementals in what we call cosmic consciousness, the cosmic memory, which is again the mind, the super substance of the mind. And anyone who can raise his selfhood to those levels of the, call it super consciousness, will find what? In him. No need to go in space, in any place. That is in his own nature. Whatever existed is there. He will expand his self super consciously to these high levels of different dimensions from the material, in which now is everything. He can find everything. Living? Of course living. Because what had existed, exists. But limited to its own nature, only in its own place. Now, Fred, I cannot say more about this matter. 1- Shadows of the Light Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. What is, was, and always will be, is the absolute, infinite beingness, God the Father. The absolute, infinite reality. What is this absolute, infinite beingness? Only a few things the human intelligence can trace and can know. The things we know is that this absolute, infinite beingness is the absolute, infinite selfhood. Selfhood means knowing what it is. So the selfhood is in the absolute, infinite beingness. Other characteristics of this absolute, infinite beingness is the everlasting life. Other characteristics are the unextinguishable light. So this absolute, infinite beingness manifests itself as the light. Another is the love. Absolute, impersonal love. There are certain other things the human beings who can raise their self-consciousness in higher and higher levels can conceive, but they cannot express this splendor in words. Another nature of this absolute, infinite beingness is the self-sufficiency. Yet in it is also the will-pleasure of manifesting itself in itself. Now what is this manifestation? To manifest itself in itself. This will-pleasure is giving new characteristics now to the absolute, infinite beingness. Part of it is the absolute, infinite beingness now. The locus. According to the language Chris was talking, because he was talking in the Greek and in the Aramaic language. In the Greek it is Evarezkia, in the Aramaic it is El Shatay, which means the locus, the manifestation. Now, from this point we can see in the absolute, infinite beingness now new characteristics. The manifestation of itself as life. We can see now its total and absolute wisdom and its all-mightiness. Now we can trace more of the nature of the absolute, infinite beingness as the absolute, infinite beingness. In this manifestation, as the absolute, infinite wisdom, we see the selfhood of the absolute, infinite beingness expressed now in the forms. The various kinds of expressing the life. But we see something else also. We can trace the multiplicity of this absolute, infinite beingness. In it there are billions and billions and billions and billions. There is no name for it now. We cannot give them any name. But we can give them any name after the manifestation. Because all this multiplicity of the absolute, infinite beingness in its common, total selfhood cannot be given a name. Yet now, seeing the will-pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness to express itself in itself, in the manifestation this will-pleasure becomes a prism. Is that not what you call it? And we can see the absolute, colorless life now appearing in colors. And we can trace in the works of creation the seven colors. So, beings now, through this will-pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness, manifest, of course, the total beingness, the locus, and through the locus to the total selfhood, now expressing the archangelic orders. At the beginning I can see the triplicity, three. It is the white light, tending to become canary yellow light, or the golden light, which is the color of the locus, of the El Shaddai directly. Then we see the red, blood-red vibrations giving that light, and I see these beings passing through that, of course, these vibrations are giving sounds, and those passing through those vibrations, these sounds give them the word Macha-El. Now there is another, again, in the prism of the will-pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness, which is the blue color. This blue color, by its vibrations, it gives us the word Gabriel, the Gabriel. So we have these two orders, and ahead of it the El Shaddai. In every triangle I have two corners, down and one up. So, everything passes through the locus, self. Now, union in the cooperation of the work, in the creating work of these two classes, classes, it's not one Michael, it's not one Gabriel, there are billions and billions and billions, their name is the vibrations of them, are producing, we have these three colors, from these three colors, union of them, I have these seven colors, then I have union of Michael and Gabriel, I find the expression of other beings appearing to the world of creation, we call them the Raphaels, the Raphaels are not inferior to the Michaels or to Gabriels, but coming they pass through the work of these two, I have the union, of course painters can know the mixing up of the colors, we have the emerald, green color, which is work of certain classes of archangels, the archangels started creating, these seven heavens, these seven worlds of existence, now we are in the world of existence, the higher noetic, the noetic, the ornatical, the psychical, the ethereal and the material worlds, and these are worlds created by the vibrations of these archangels using the mind, now what is the mind? The mind, from this very first moment, the absolute infinite beingness, expresses, not conceives, because the total wisdom and the almightyness was always and will always be, the beingness self-sufficiency, but now we have the manifestation, so the manifestation, I have it, a certain part of what I call space, and space is the nature of the absolute infinite beingness, now seeing those vibrations, the light, so the religious are calling the infinite beingness and the beingness, the locus, light, sun from the light, it's true, they are not light, they express the light, this is the point, but certain entities, I won't call them entities, I'll call them not even beings, they are not God for it, because they get the word being after passing through this prism we call the will pleasure, certain passing, have thought that they could just create a word in themselves, separating themselves from the absolute infinite beingness, so they have been rejected, these are the fallen ones, and they have wrapped themselves by what we call word of separateness, they have entered in the words of the manifestations, now as thieves, robbers, to get what was not their own, just to steal the work of the archangels of the creation, of course, according to their vibrations, according to the way they have wrapped themselves in an illusion, they have created what we call the darkness, the darkness exists but it is not a reality, the darkness can be when there is not the light present there, so what they have created, those beings now, we can call them beings, the fallen ones, just wrapping themselves with their own way of conceiving themselves as gods, they have created in themselves the darkness, and then according to their vibrations, that darkness was in seven degrees, so all of them are not the same, as all the archangels are not the same, classifying themselves in their orders, so the fallen ones classify according to their vibrations, and to the degree of the darkness, of the veil, they have wrapped themselves to seven shadows, let us call it better shadows than darkness, because even those veils are pierced by the love of God, and by the light of God, so they think they are independent, yet they are dependent on the life and love of the father, otherwise they would not exist, to be, of course, they will return back to the nature, but they would not exist, now existing, though they are the lords of darkness, of the shadows, still that darkness is pierced by the light, the love of the father, I am telling you, the darkest hell has light in it, for those who are working in those hells, to help human beings who have followed these fallen archangels, now, what have they lost? They can project angels of darkness, they are elementals, they can do that, they can create veils of darkness, to cover human beings, they can do that, but they have lost the power of creating, the archangels can create, the fallen ones call them demons, call them devils, of course, I am not allowed, according to their vibrations, of the shadows to give their names, they are known their names, but they are not allowed to pronounce them, so, what happened? Happened, it is happening now, it will always happen, because this is an expression of the eternal present, the eternal now, when the lords of the light, the archangels, using the real pleasure, of the infinite beingness, its and their own total wisdom, and their almightiness, in creating, they have created the worlds, and the universes, and the heavens, these fallen ones, entered in those heavens, having their own, as they believe, independence, which it is not, so, just by permission of God, that they are doing what they are doing, maybe, it is also in the divine plan, to create the world of separateness, so, now we come to the human being, to the animals, it is a different thing, they cannot use the animals, the devils, but what happens with the human being? The holy archangels of the elements, started working, to give, in the words of existence, to a human being, what I would call them, the bodies, using what you call the permanent atom, the form, the human form, always existed in those who had been humanized, even at the time they were in the absolute infinite beingness, but passing through that, they have found the light, of the selfhood, in the El Shattai or the Locos, so, the holy archangels started working to dress those spirit beings, with their bodies, maybe, a metathron, a high spirit of the dominions, and the thrones, to accompany the spirit soul being now, it is, just to balance the influence of the fallen ones, so, when the holy archangels of the elements, started creating, the permanent atom, our real self, our spirit, soul self, who is God, light, we are light, we are life, we have never revolted, it is a revolt against God, yet, in expressing ourselves through the permanent atom, and while the archangels have created, our bodies, perfect, the archetypes are kept by the holy archangels, our guardian angels, yet, a little, time and place based self, has been created, and they got the chance, the fallen ones, to wrap that little self of ours, our personality, with their veils, of darkness, and of shadows, I said that these veils, according to their density, and the kind of being transparent, are classified in seven classes, these are not to be, taught publicly, so, it's left to the holy archangel, the guardian archangel, and to the soul, manifesting itself now, in the world of form, to be influenced, misguided maybe, and so, we find human beings now, the little self, the personality, wrapped with these veils, all human beings are not covered with the same density of veil, but it is our responsibility, what we have accepted, so, now I have, the bodies, of the human being, the material body, the third example, the psychical body, the noetical body, the noetic body, perfect, created by holy archangels, and the fallen ones, cannot touch them, but, the reflection, of the spirit, soul ego, in the bodies, has been influenced by these fallen archangels, by their vibrations, so we find, our spirit, soul ego, God perfect, having a reflection, which depends, and we have, our duality, though we are Gods, perfect, luminous, light, everlasting life, yet we have a little self, petty little self, our personality, male or female, a personality, shall we call, this personality, evil? No. Influenced? Yes. So we have, present the personality of a man, divine, and covered by shadow, but the shadow, is not a reality, it is a phenomenon, so, the work of the fallen ones, can be found, in the material world, they claim, the material world, to be their own, what is the work of the holy archangels, of the elements, working in them, because they don't care, the holy archangels, of the elements, if robbers are coming, claiming, their property as their own, and of course, they have that claim, on the bodies of the human beings, that isn't true, because the human body, of a human being, is built up, perfectly, on the form, of the human form, keeping it, in good order, and the El Shaddai, the locus, always is working, in the material body, to keep it, in order, in good order, in good health, but, to the new created, time and place, little self, our personality, they have, just done, well, I won't call it, just a bad thing, but, maybe, it is in the divine plan, as well, they have, wrapped it, with a veil, of shadow, of darkness, according, to our choice, our choice, according, to the reflection, of our vibration, is the veil, that, had been accepted, to be on us, so, these fallen ones, cannot affect, the material body, which is under, ability, and power, of the loss, of the elements, of the archangels, to build it, can't they affect, the etheric double? No, they cannot approach it, but, they can affect, the so- called, psychic body, of the personality, because, the personality, in reality, starts from the psychical body, the body of the emotions, that's why, the archangel, keeps the archetypes, perfect, and a human being, as a present day, little, personality, given the substance, of the emotions, just, work on it, free yourself, from the shadow, of the fallen ones, so that you'll become light, and make it, just brilliant, splendid, as the archetypes, kept in the holy archangel, our guardian archangel. So, we can see, the influence, of the fallen ones, on what I call, the personality, of a man, which is, the psychical, created body, and not the archetype, and the noetical body, not the noetic, that's, only the place, they can, influence a human being. Why, did the El Shaddai, or the Locos, permitted that? Who can say? Anyhow, we know that, the El Shaddai, or the Locos, respecting the free will, and the freedom, of the created, in time and place, self, of the personality, to choose, not interfering. So, in the El Shaddai, or the Locos, the greatest, the greatest principle, is the freedom, to choose. What about, now, the Shekinah, or the Holy Spirit? The Shekinah, had rejected, the fallen ones, and by rejecting them, they have lost, the power, of creating. So, the fallen ones, cannot create anything. Still, they kept, a pride in them, to feel, being Lords, of the darkness, that be inferior, Archangels, in the light. Why? It's their own business. Anyhow, they can influence, a human being, I mean, the personality, of a human being, not more than, that human being, can resist, so that the human being, will be responsible. They cannot influence him, to the point, that a human being, will say, what can I do? After all, that's my destiny, I am under the influence, of the devil, or of the fallen ones. They are not true. They can never influence, the personality of a man, more, than it can afford, and can counteract, to them. Maybe this is the divine plan, to strengthen, the, newly created, in time and place, personality, self, in assimilating itself, with the real self, inside, which is, our own reality, our spirit, ego-self. So, the seeker of the truth, should know, all this great truth. He should know, now, as a human being, I have been given, a material body, perfectly built, by the Lords, of the Archangels, the Archangelic Order, so the Lords of the Elements. And, all the time, any single moment, the El Shaddai, or the Logos, is working, in my body, to keep it, in perfect order. Wounds, are cured, that are closed, and broken bones, are joined. So, though, we have, as, time and place, persons, selves, allowed, to be wrapped, with certain veil, of shadow or darkness, the Logos, cares about the material body, we are using, the greatest gift. I am the bread, from the Heaven, nourishing, that material body. That was, where the words, of Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ. The El Shaddai, humanized. So, but, though, the Logos, tolerates, seeing, the personality, of a person, being wrapped, by various, intensity, shadow veils, he lives, even the newly, created, self, that personality, to work, for its own, purification. Not interfering, but, he decided, to be incarnated, as a human being, in Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ, to show the way, to wake us up. Saying, that, the perishable, should become imperishable, because, it is imperishable, in nature. It is perishable, in manifestation. And, the seemingly, mortal, during the time, under the law, of change, should become, immortal, because, it is immortal, in nature. That was why, a ray of the El Shaddai, the Logos, have been incarnated, into Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ, who became, perfect God, and perfect human. So, there is no excuse. We are given, the mind, the holy, super substance. The Lords of darkness, and shadow, try, to stop us, from using the mind, using the mind, in lower vibrations, as emotions. Even so, expressing ourselves, now, as the present day, personality, we are using the mind, subconsciously, instead of, self-consciously, of our divine nature. There, we are again influencing, the human beings, in transforming, the mind, emotion, which is love, into desires. They know that, because, that desire, has turned them, from archangels, into demons, passing from the, say, total, wisdom, pleasure of God, they didn't keep, their identity, in the whole, but created in themselves, the desire, of separating themselves, from the absolute, infinite selfhood, by wrapping themselves, with the veil, they have created, of darkness, because darkness, is not something permanent, it is something, created. Now, I give the definition, how, are called, according to, our expressions, these veils, of shadows, or darkness, will give them, in other lessons, you call them, egoism, you call them, pride, you call them, feeling, tendency, for adultery, and many, many, many other things, because, these have been, classified also, so, whether we classify them, or not, it doesn't matter, we feel them, we live with them, we can know, their influence, on our, personality, and, we are, free to choose, free to choose, but, violating, the laws of order, and, when these laws, return, to their, harmony, we have to feel, the consequences, so, the consequences, can wake up, a human being, because, a human being, even, as a personality, has in himself, the sense, of good, and bad, I won't call it evil, so, one has to choose, I said in a lesson, what is light, an extinguishable light, life, and love, is in us, we are living, in a body, with just, using the mind, seeing, the work of the holy unconscious, and of the locus, keeping it in good order, work with them, and live, the life, we should live, so, we are the life, but now wrapped, with these veils, of the shadows, we are making our own life, and of course, the life, of two persons, is not the same, different way, of thinking, different way, of feeling, different way, of expressing themselves, different way, of feeling, the reactions, from their own, way of life, so, living, an evil life, again, I don't want to, use this word, a bad life, why should we call it bad, we'll say, just, a way of life, which, will make us, understand, what we are, who we are, and where, we are going, in every violation, of the law, of that law, is the consequence, the consequence, is to wake us up, it's not a punishment, where is then, the success, of the fallen ones, on the human beings, they are not successful, they are influencing, a human being, for some time, until that, human being, that little self, will understand, that my nature, is that I am the self, misguided, blinded to the light, but I have now, to open my eyes, and see the light, and because, there is the light, an extinguishable light, everywhere, the prodigal son, has to, return back, to his home, besides, wrapping themselves, the human beings, with the veils of shadow, let us call them vices, and just, not a normal way of living, we can understand, what is now, the light, we can appreciate the light, we can appreciate, what is, life. Now, if you are born in a room, full of light, you have been in the light, the extinguishable light, you have been, while, our ego selves, were, in our, beingness, in God the Father. Now, if you are born, just in a room, full of light, and I put you the question, what is light? Can you tell me, what is light? No. But if, I take you out, where it is dark, darkness, just only for a moment, and then bring you in again, and tell you, what is light? You say, no, no, no, I know what is light, because I know, what is darkness. But before, you couldn't know. So, we came as light, we are light, we have a self, we know, what is life, we are living, it is our life. Now, exposed, to our way of life, and to the shadow, of the following ones, the end, will be to, make us appreciate, what is life, what is light. Maybe that is why, the Shaddai is allowing them, to tempt us. So, what is the duty now? Of a seeker of the truth, man or a woman? First, to acknowledge, his or her, divine nature, life, living. To value, by using the mind, the work of the Holy Archangels, in providing that self, that petty self, the personality, with a body, which, he or she, can keep in perfect order, keeping it, under the law. It is not difficult to do that. Everybody can use the mind, if he wants to use it, and use it as reason. And thank, the Holy Archangels, for their, work, in creating, that material body. And find, the self, the real self, which is God, in their body, entrusted to them, given to them, and all the time, under the care, of the absolute, infinite beingness, to keep it in good health, considering them, gods. Christ says, your bodies are, temples of God. Great truth. So, now, knowing this truth, everybody can come, to this conclusion. And seeing now, the way, human beings, are living, all the time, transgressing the laws, and seeing, the illness, as consequence, of their transgressing the law, on their material body, and seeing, at the same time, they are suffering, they are ill, the locals, working, insistently, to keep them in good, health. So, who is the cause, now, of illnesses, that are not, the evil ones? Because, human beings have, just that bad habit, of never accepting, the fault, that it is theirs, and trying to put it, on somebody else. And many, all the time, are just, putting the responsibility, their own responsibility, to the fallen ones. But, why? Even the work, of the fallen ones, is just to strengthen us. Maybe it is necessary. Because, if that was not so, the El Shaddai, would not allow it. He even, have allowed, the tempter, I think, that is the word. Of course, we know the names, of those, who came to tempt, even Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ. You have become, a human being now. Yes, I know, you are the perfect ray, of the El Shaddai, the Lord. Yes, but, now you are a human being, and that body, belongs to me. No, it does not belong to you. Of course, in the new book, I am writing, I will write, the whole dialogue, between, Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ, with the tempter. Because, he had delivered it. So, to help the others, his, disciples, to resist, the evil. Why, they have taken it, out of the Bible? I am wondering, those first fathers. Why? That was a crime. Now, I will put it, in my new book, the whole dialogue, so that people, will be enlightened, and understand, what is going on, in them, and how, they can just, find their way. He said, I am the way. I am the way, the truth, and life. Great, words indeed. 1- Sight of the Soul - Our Many Gifts from God Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, in your omnipresence, as your total wisdom and your almightyness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We are going around in nature here in the cross-material world. And what do we see? Phenomena of life of various kinds. We can see the cross-material earth, the place around us. We can see in the vegetable kingdom, trees, bushes, all kinds of vegetable life rooted on the cross-material world. Not moving about. These are the characteristics of the vegetable life. Now we see also around us other phenomena of life. Billions and billions of phenomena of life in each kingdom. In the vegetable kingdom, in the animal kingdom, animals. Around us many kinds of animals going about, moving. Now in the kingdom of the animals, these phenomena of life are moving about. They are independent from the cross-material planet, from the earth. The vegetable kingdom we have them rooted, not moving about. We see birds flying in the air, here and there. We see also human beings going here and there. What do we understand about a human being and about the animals all around him? Both have a cross-material body. All kinds of animals have a cross-material body. Human beings have a cross-material body also. Bones, just all the elements of nature. Bones, flesh, blood, the liquids, organs. The same thing as the animals, a head. And studying the life of every phenomenon of life in the animal kingdom, we see similarities. But we see great differences also in the form. We see that each phenomenon of life now we study the animal kingdom. As a head, lungs, a heart, the human beings' hands and feet, the animals on the feet, all that. So we have to study this phenomenon of life and see in what they are similar and where they are different, similar in flesh, in bones, the cross-material. They are similar, the animals and the human beings. But there is a great difference now. Now let us see to what they are similar. We said in previous lessons that something to exist in the cross-material world should have a form, definitely a form. Without a form, nothing can exist or even be. We cannot see the form. The real form which is materialized, unless it is covered with cross-matter, forms do exist, invisible. So to be and to exist, there must be a form. So we can see billions and billions and billions of forms in the animal kingdom. Very different, the form of the one phenomenon of life from the other phenomenon of life, yet similar in the composition of the elements, of the matter, the bones, flesh, organs and all that. We see all these phenomena of life in the animal kingdom and we see human beings. Now we see the difference between a human being and the animals or the other animals. Now of course, those enlightened ones in the past, through all these centuries which have passed, human, no animal can show any development of that kind. Only the human race has given us the so-called enlightened ones, human beings. Have reached to very, very high levels of beingness and of existence, in both sides, in beingness and in existence. And were able to read, see, study, what is in what we call the cosmic consciousness. There in what we call the cosmic mind, the cosmic consciousness, which is everywhere, everything which had existed is there recorded, in every detail. But now, those today, and even in the past, who could just approach, reach that state of seeing, in what we say, the cosmic consciousness. What did they see? And what did they give to the people of seeing there? I had given an example before some time. We have a very nice park, full of flowers, trees, everything there. And we see, we take there in this park, 3 or 4 people, each child 10 years of age, the child has eyes to see. Just a grown-up, not interested on trees and flowers and anything, but on different other things. A botanist, that is called a cosmic thing. There, and another fellow there, and I leave them for an hour. All of them have eyes to see. But what do they see? They leave for an hour there. Then I ask them, what have you seen? I get that child. What did you see? You had eyes to see. You were seeing things around. But it is not only the eyes needed to see, it is the mind behind it. The mind sees, not the eyes. The child went near the pool, just made some mud there with the water. There, playing and playing and playing. What did you see? You see some birds swimming in the pool, nothing more than that. Though the child has eyes to see. The other man will describe you what interested him, seeing. I will tell him, what about that and that and that thing? Did you not see them? No, I didn't. He had seen them, but he didn't notice them. And the other one, the botanist, he will give me a full description of what is interesting him. All those people in the park had eyes, very nice eyes, which could see. But what did they see? Now, in the cosmic mind, in the cosmic consciousness, what is needed is also this sight, not immaterialized, the sight and the mind. Now, many can enter there, in that cosmic so-called consciousness, but what do they see? We see some mediums becoming, as they claim, clairvoyant. Honest people, they describe what they see, but what really they see. It's according to their soul and self- development. That's why their description is so different, the description of the one from the other. That's called the children in the park. Many are coming to me and say, Sir, I want to become a clairvoyant. Of course, I'm laughing. What for? To see what? Did you grow up in reality to know what you want to know? To know what is life and know what to see? Or just simply catch glimpses here and there of something from, quote-unquote, the psychical plane, or even the lower nautical plane, and then color it according to the quality of your personality and claim that you are saying the truth. So, clairvoyance and clairaudience mean nothing if the one who is supposed to use it is developed. It's not a child to play near the pond with the mud and the water. Yes, all of them can enter into what I call the cosmic consciousness or the cosmic mind, but what do they see and understand and study there? So, many in the past have conducted this cosmic consciousness, which is everywhere, in the omnipresence of God the Locust. But what they have given us shows their development and the quality of their personality, coloring what they have seen. So, what do I want to say? We cannot rely very much on the description of those called clairaudient or clairvoyant before they are developed. Developed. What does it mean, developed, now? After we study the human being. Who is a human being in reality? First as a man and as a woman, and then as a soul. Self-consciousness and the various stages of expressing that self, soul consciousness. The consciousness, we cannot know the development of a human being and conducting what we call the cosmic consciousness, what that fellow, man or a woman, can see. See, all of them will see the same thing, but what do they understand? That's why I said, the first thing is our real inner nature of observation. To know, to observe and understand. What is understanding now? Using the mind super-substance in the proper way of using it. We made all through these years so much bad use of the mind, enslaving it and just serving our emotions, our desires, our weaknesses, our intentions, that we made just a so-called nautical body, so, shall I call it dim or dirty. And we cannot see through it properly and nicely. Now, what did the enlightened ones had seen in the cosmic mind, in the cosmic memory? What concerns our planet, life and the phenomena of life on our planet? What description they had given? And can we do the same? Is it enough just to get what they have given us? Believing blindly. And that's enough. Joshua Manuel de Christ says, No, you should know the truth and the truth will take you away from confusion and from delusions. You, you should be as perfect as your Heavenly Father is perfect. Not others. Nobody is eating and digesting with the mouth and the stomach of somebody else. One has to eat for himself. So, one has to use the mind for himself and learn how to use the mind. But, all people have what to call the mind. Yes. As God has given the vitality, the air, the oxygen and everything for everybody to breathe, so, and lungs to breathe, so that he or she will live. So, he has given the mind for all, all to use. But notice what kind of use we are making of the mind. I'll give a poor example here. We have the fresh air, oxygen and everything to breathe and be strong and happy. But what man invented? To smoke. To take what? To smoke and this and that. Destroying healing lungs and many, many other effects on the material body by having all this stuff which is not the oxygen. Whose fault is that? This is the same with the mind. We should not contaminate the super substance of the mind, of the holy mind. Divine is not, but it is holy. In spoiling it, in making it just unbridled desires, emotions, egoistic emotions, weaknesses, passions, enmities and many other things. Because all these things are made by the means of the mind. To put it more plainly, using the mind in such a way as to create human demons. The human demons wrapping us all around us as the elementals composing our present day personality and our subconsciousness are blinding our sight from seeing this truth. So, I come again to the main point. If one, desiring, having what I call clairvoyance, clairaudience and all those so called powers, calling them psychical powers, he should have first of all his own personal development. Personal, that means making his personality, ego, self, dependent, time and place, personality so pure as to transmute it into his or her soul, self and then see better, clearly. And the sight of the soul is perfect. The sight of the personality? No. No. So we have just first to transmute the personality, our personality, to our individuality, that means that part of our self, soul, so that we should know what we are seeing and what for, see what for in the cosmic consciousness. That's the perfect book which reveals the truth concerning life, phenomena of life and the human being. So, now come to the point. What did the enlightened ones have seen in that cosmic consciousness, cosmic mind? What did they see? Yes, the planet, the conditions, they were in various times, at the beginning, volcanoes, just the atmosphere, unfriendly, difficult, difficulties in life, in living and many, many, many other things. One can see all that. Can see different phenomena of life on the planet, suitable for that time. Huge serpentines, huge beasts, monsters going here and there, attacking each other, killing the bodies of each other, like that. And we see the human being in the caves, holding just a club on his hand to protect himself from the wild animals around them and just kill smaller animals to eat himself. So, studying the enlightened ones, all those conditions, he finds the human being using even a little bit of what we call the mind at the beginning for his protection. Later, subconsciously creating his gods, the elementals which tend to help him to survive, to live. We can study just the life of a human being and the study of all the animals around us on the planet according to the conditions prevailing that time on the planet. And we see the human being not losing the opportunities, using more and more his or her mind in manifesting now a personality. From this point we see the human being different from the animals. You will never see any animal on the planet, any kind of animal manifesting a personality. What is the personality now? We must analyze it. Manifesting a separate from everything else self, shadow of the self, not the real self, calling I. I am. Did you hear any animal call itself I am and have a different name from other animals? We give names to the animals. They may hear the elementals in them, directing them, but in reality, animals do not have a name. Human beings, each one, man or woman, has a name. His or her name. Listening to it, hearing to it, and responding to it. So now we have to study what we call the time and place human personality. First of all, considering the human body, the human form, the human body, as the self. The first mistake, but maybe it is necessary for that time to develop what we call the personality. Then, what do we see more in the personality of a human being which we cannot see in any kind of animals around us? What can I see? First. That I-ness. Please stop him. They should go and take photographs. This time I am just giving the lecture. They should not stand there. Let them sit. Please let them take a seat. But they shouldn't stand there. Now, seeing the personality of a man. Now, what do we see? Using his other bodies subconsciously without knowing anything about them. How? Of course, the Holy Archangels, we said in a lesson, are using the etheric double of the cross-material body to build it, to sustain it, and to keep it in good order. For that, we shouldn't care more. The Holy Archangels are doing their work. Now, we see the personality in a human body as a human being now. That's not a human being in reality. As a human being, we see the personality of a man starting building that personality what we call his or her subconsciousness subconsciously. Not consciously or self-consciously. This is what makes a human being different from all the animals. What is this subconsciousness now of a human being? Is this subconsciousness the etheric double? And the etheric double. Is this subconsciousness the psychical body and the psychical body, which is the etheric double? Is this subconsciousness the enoetical body and the enoetical body? Is this subconsciousness the enoetical body? Yes and no. Now, what is the relation of the human being as a personality now? What is that human being as a personality now? Related to the psychical body. The so-called psychical body. But the main part of the personality of a man is his desires, his emotions and the way of behaving. I would say, rather, that the personality of a man is more the psychical body than the cross-material body. And the personality of a man is that composition and the way of blending thought, the mind and the emotions. And slaving, as I said before, the mind to the intentions, desires, emotions and later to his or her passions, weaknesses and way of behaving. So now we have how to see the present-day personality of a human being. This we must have in our mind while starting our introspection or looking within. So, we should know the composition of the present-day personality of a human being. Now, say something else. What is the relation of the personality to the individuality? The personality of a human being as a man or a woman to his or her soul-self. The individuality is the everlasting self. And as I said in the previous lesson, unless that self is the part of life in her time and place, that personality cannot exist. So, it is the part of life, the individuality, the soul in the present-day personality. But latent in the personality, wrapped and covered with all the impressions, the desires, the thoughts and the elementals, human demons or human angels, it doesn't matter. The elementals. So, now we know what is the present-day personality of a human being. Now, we know what we are as, today, human beings. Mortal, not immortal. Yet, we have in us latent the immortality, our immortal soul-self. So, you cannot find that in any kind of the animals around us. And I said, no animal is a soul. But what is it in the place of a soul in the animal life? Something immortal should be in all the animals. Yes, it is the archangel who is dominating over that kind of life, of that phenomenon of life. But, in a human being, a human being is a god. It is a soul, ego, self. Now, we have described the human being as a personality and as a soul, ego, self. I have just to describe it more. The human being today, as we know as a man or as a woman has a form, the human form. Human form as a male or as a female. The cross-material body has that form dressed in cross-matter. What is the form of the personality of a man? Here, we have just to see it. Is the personality male and female? Yes, of course it is. It is male and female, or male or female. But, Latin is the whole. That is why sometimes an ego-self, a permanent personality, can be incarnated into a man or into a woman. What for? For everything to exist and happen on the cross-material world or in any world, there must be a reason behind it and a cause behind it. Because the Divine Super- Intelligence, God, has created everything in a plan and with a purpose. So, what is now the human form in the whole circle of its existence, possibilities and probabilities? Male and female. And in various stages of appearance from the spermatozoon to complete this circle of possibilities. Which is now the form of the soul-self? That. Which means the soul-self has the human form complete. Complete in what? In appearance, in the eternal Now, Now. Not in the course of appearing, the development. The whole circle of existence and possibilities and not, what you call, time and appearance in time. So the soul is in the eternal Now and not in time as we know it and understand it now. So, now we make just a comparison between the present-day personality of a man and the soul. What about the permanent personality of a man? Seen just by a fellow who can see it. The personality, the permanent personality of a man which is part of the soul emerged in the world of existence from the one side is just in time and place developing the incarnated personality but from the other side and in it has the complete circle of possibilities and existence. So it partakes of both sides because the permanent personality is the personality and the soul itself. That's why Joshua Emmanuel even addressing the Pharisees in their sins, in their shortcomings was calling them gods and sons of God offsprings of God. Because he could see, even in their sinful personality the soul individuality of their spiritual self. Of course, we must enter deep in the meaning of these things just to understand the sayings of Joshua Emmanuel concerning the other human beings saying, love all the human beings as your own self, not less. Otherwise, it has no meaning. So now, we see the man as long as he or she is living in the cross material world we see the man just in the course through what we call time and place of which her or his life manifesting it. Is this real? Or the reality is behind this phenomenon? Behind time and place-space? Now let us see it from another point of view. Yesterday, before yesterday just before, even before have passed, we have lived what are those events, the way of life the way you have expressed yourselves to us now, more than what I will call it, a remembrance or a dream, call it a dream if you like. To these events which have passed in what you call time have any effect on us on our consciousness now and today. You should have just studied the introspection. Of course it does. Because all these things are living elementals in our subconsciousness in our personality and given the opportunity being re-energized they come forward claiming their life again. This is the thing we have just to study. I will give an example. There is a fellow he had just say a day before some days, maybe weeks, months which gave him pleasure in sinful things even in sex, in drinking, in gambling and doing all that. In the meantime he had changed his life according to circumstances. Now, sitting alone these elementals come on the surface of his consciousness which you call remembering, memory I have just to study this phenomenon of memory remembering, concerning our time and place, personality and then what happens? Immediately re-energize these elementals will create in him the same desires sinful desires. If he is a drunkard or he should like just to go somewhere to drink if he is a gambler he will go just to play cards or something else which means that they are living entities in the personality they are in what we call our personality's plurality we should be very careful about them so one should study seriously the nature and the composition of his or her personality it is not difficult let him or her allow these elementals to come to the surface now I know what you are you do exist in me in my subconsciousness I enter in my subconsciousness I see the nature of my personality which is not myself because I am the sole ego self study them and now take my decision this is the great value of what I call introspection checking and looking within using our divine nature of observation and using the mind in the proper way that means being real human beings so where shall we reach by doing these introspection exercises in some time to find the truth in the teachings of the enlightened ones which is we as human beings have three bodies with their etheric doubles the moulds in which they are built now we find this great truth and we start just to make corrections I said in a lesson before some time that when the locust caught the locust and the holy archangels have created man in his human form as the complete circle of existence, possibilities and probabilities that means creating a perfect human body which the holy archangels have taken from the divine plan started from the spermatozoon and the etheric double to build and sustain the cross material body which does not concern as much but now it has given to the soul spirit, soul, ego self of ours which is immortal it is part of God a perfect luminous psychical body as it should be in its archangelic form which is kept in the ecophyte with us guardian archangel, our guardian angel also at the same time the perfect most luminous splendid nautical body which is also in the ecophyte archangel, our guardian angel together in union with our perfect psychical body it is there in us, in the kingdom of the heavens according to Joshua Emmanuel in our spirit, soul, selves it is in us but we are not only that we are also the time and place sinful and filthy hearing to a name of a male or a female person at the same time and now what the holy archangels and the locus has done has given to that personality a quantity of substance of the mind's psychical substance build it as the original the archetype in your guardian archangel start building it and also a quantity of substance super substance of the mind now build it just to create and make your nautical body come on, do it you have to work with it so we are given what we call the essence of emotions of desires to work with them to create at the beginning human demons and later human angels and so the composition of these elementals which are living entities composing our personality and our subconsciousness is what we call our petty time and place self of Maria or of George which we are not in reality we are the ego soul self shall we cast away Maria and George even our time and place petty self no because in it is the soul self also we are not going to destroy our personality we have to transmute our personality into our soul ego individuality that's why Joshua Manuel Decai said the perishable will become imperishable and the mortal will become immortal which means when we reach that level of our soul super consciousness we can leave again if we like everything concerning Maria and George because they will stay and remain living elementals in the cosmic memory in the cosmic consciousness so nothing is lost what about their transgressions their behavior well that will change that will change but now if we leave again reaching the self super consciousness and being able to attune ourselves to these levels if we reach 1- The Christ Logos and the Divine Selfhood Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation. Deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We repeat that the absolute infinite beingness, God, is the everlasting life. The nature of this absolute infinite beingness is life. In the absolute beingness we see as its nature the self-sufficiency. This absolute infinite beingness is lacking nothing. In it is what we say the total wisdom. Apart from the total wisdom in the absolute infinite beingness and its self-sufficiency, there is also the real pleasure of expressing itself in itself, since it is life. To manifest itself as life in all the phenomena of life. So, what else do we see in this absolute infinite beingness? God. Its multiplicity. In this absolute infinite beingness are beyond any number beings. These beings are composing the absolute infinite beingness. And these beings in the absolute beingness are similar to the absolute infinite beingness. They are not inferior, they are not lacking from the father absolute infinite beingness. Which means these beings have in themselves the total wisdom, the self-sufficiency. But now, how can we understand from our human intelligence the real nature of this absolute infinite beingness? Unless we have something tangible. What do we have? We ourselves as living beings. We are living. A human being is just a manifestation of the absolute infinite beingness. A living being. What are the expressions of the living beings? Knowing themselves. Who they are. That means this selfhood. We cannot have something from nothing. So, as we get everything from the absolute infinite beingness, as matter, mind and everything else, so we are part of the absolute infinite selfhood. So, the main nature which we will understand the absolute infinite beingness, is the absolute infinite selfhood. It knows who it is. If it is, if it was not, how the absolute beingness would manifest the total wisdom? Now, the expressions and the manifestations of the absolute infinite beingness maybe are many, too many. Yet, we understand only three modes of this beingness. The absolute infinite locus, the word, which is just expressing the absolute infinite selfhood and also dynamically. It's not only just the selfhood. Now, manifesting the absolute infinite beingness itself now dynamically, we can see in it the all-mightiness. Nothing is beyond its power. And then we call that manifestation the Holy Spirit. So, it is the three states we can understand. The main nature of the absolute beingness is self-sufficiency. The real pleasure of manifesting itself, which is the selfhood, Christos Logos, and the dynamical expression, which is the whole creation is in the absolute beingness, which is the Holy Spirit. I said there may be many, many other modes of beingness, but these three, the human beings and the human intelligence can understand. Now, we said that in the absolute infinite beingness there are beyond, beyond any number, beings. These beings in the absolute infinite beingness are similar. There is not any distinction. But, passing through the manifestation, through the Logos, they have their own, now, expression. And we see these beings now expressing a certain order of archangels, of beings. Then we have the Holy Archangels. I repeat, all the Holy Archangels beyond any number are similar to the absolute infinite beingness. In the self-sufficiency, in having the total wisdom, and now passing through the Logos and through the Holy Spirit, through both these modes of beingness, they have their own expression. Now, the very moment, the absolute infinite beingness and the Logos and the beings, that very moment, which is when? There was not any time that this didn't happen. That moment, from the absolute infinite beingness and the beings, start emanating the mind. I would rather call the mind more in the authority of the Holy Spirit, because the mind is the energy and the means by which the absolute infinite beingness and the beings will manifest themselves as the life. Now, studying the mind, we see that the mind, in the absolute infinite beingness, in the boundless space, is the super substance. The super substance is formless. Yet, in this super substance, there is the total wisdom of the Almighty, which is the cause of everything, the laws governing everything, the principles which are governing everything. So, the real might and power of the mind is beyond the world of forms. It is in the world of the principles, of the laws, of the causes. We shall call this the noetic world. Now, we have the mind in lower frequencies of vibrations, which is like a super substance and substance together. Now, we see that in this world, the noetical world, the forms appear. Forms. Hot forms. Beyond number forms. Because this is the total wisdom of the absolute infinite beingness. And why the forms are appearing? Hot forms. To manifest life. Nothing can exist, living, unless it has a form. Any form. From the amoeba, the worm, the butterfly, the birds, the animals, the trees, the galaxy, the planet. Is the planet living? Yes, the planet is living. The stones are living. The rocks are living. In the stones and in the rocks, you have the crystals. It's life there. So, there is no place to be conceived where there is not the life. Because the life is the omnipresent, absolute infinite beingness. So, what is the cause of the creation of the universes? The pleasure of the absolute beingness to manifest itself in itself. And so, by the human intelligence and the human way of conception, we can just approach and study seven heavens. Now, which are these seven heavens? And from what are these seven heavens made? Definitely by the mind. It is the mind. So, the various frequencies of the mind are giving me the heavens. Maybe there are many more. Many, many more. Who knows? The archangels may know better than human beings know. But human intelligence cannot go beyond the seven heavens. And even those who can go to the seventh heaven, returning to the lower heavens, they cannot find words to describe the splendor of those heavens. And what are these heavens? Not only these seven heavens, and even more than these seven heavens. What are they? Joshua, the Christ, who was the immaculate ray of the locus directly incarnated and materialized into Joshua, the Christ, said that plainly, the kingdom of the heavens is in you. In every one of us. Which means, every one of us can approach it. Because it is in us. Or the kingdom of the heavens. Which means that we are gods. We live and the nature of life is divine. Our expression as a self, as a self-conscious being, proves that we are gods. And as such, as gods, we can use the intelligence, express the intelligence, and use the mind for self-recognition to understand who and what we are. Then what do we find? By concentration, direct meditation, observation, contemplation, we understand the various modes of life. Because all the modes of life are not the same. We have the life of the rocks, of the earth, of the planet, of the crystals, of the diamonds, of the metals, of gold, of everything. So, we can study all these modes of life and find our place in these modes of life. Because we have a place in these modes of life, which is from the lowest to the highest. That is why a human being is called the microcosm in comparison to the macrocosm. Which means, in the macrocosm, we have the absolute infinite beingness. That corresponds to our spirit, ego-self. We have the locus, the loquoic super- consciousness. That corresponds to our soul, the manifestation of the soul of the absolute infinite being. Then, we have the bodies, our bodies, which correspond to the Holy Spirit. Because we said that the Holy Spirit, dynamically holding the almightiness of the absolute infinite beingness, is creating the worlds and the heavens. So, what we shall see now? Two states and conditions of things. The eternal, the absolute infinite beingness, never changing, everlasting, which is the absolute infinite selfhood. Self-knowing. And, of course, what I see in the absolute infinite beingness, eternal, I see it in the expression. Now, the expression is changing. The manifestations of the worlds are leading us to the worlds of the existence. Now, the world of the existence is in the world of the beingness. It's not separate from it. Because to exist, it means that it has in it the beingness. And so, we see the worlds of the existence. These worlds of the existence are the worlds of the various dimensions. See now the worlds of the existence. We have the noetic world. I said the world of the principles of the laws of the causes. And then I have the noetical world, the world of the forms. So, so that a form may appear, may be created, it must have behind it a cause and a law. And the law and the cause is all the time, in all the manifestations of the forms, controlling it. Because this is what we call the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. So, it is not just simply because the Church or the Fathers of the Church mentioned these words to mean nothing to us, these words. Because in these words, there is great, great meaning which we must approach it with our mind, not just whispering the words. Because words are for meanings, to give meanings. So, we come to the conclusion. Every kind of a form is in the world of the existence. And it is the expression of the total wisdom of the infinite beingness using the mind now. We said we find the mind now as supersubstantial. The world of the ideas of the laws of the causes. Now I have the noetical world, the reflection of these laws and causes to be formulated, creating the forms. All kinds of forms. And we said that the forms tend to serve life. To have now life. Life away from the source of life. No. In it. Yet independent. These are the characteristics of the selfhood. And this selfhood is expressed by human beings and by the holy archangels. Now, what about trees and animals and parasites? Don't they have a self? No, they don't. They are the expressions of a hidden self behind them, which are the angels and the archangels. And their creation is creating them. So there is a self behind them, but these forms are not expressing a self. This is why the human being is God. You cannot say a lamb, a cow, a lion, a God. Because all those are crystallized, materialized thought forms of the archangels. Elementals. So the archangels, using the mind, with their creationism and their wisdom and their all-mightiness, are composing all those living forms around us. The vegetable kingdom and the animal kingdom. And they implant in these forms life. But that life is their life. It is not independent life of the animals or the trees. This is the point. While a human being is expressing his own life. Because he is God. So, we are similar to the archangels. As what? As human beings. Yes, and as human beings, but not absolutely as human beings. Because considering ourselves as human beings, our bodies, we are not different from the animals. As an expression, living expression, phenomenon of life, a human being is not different from the animals. Having the human form, which is of course the image of God according to the Bible, yet we have bones, blood, flesh, organs, and so many things functioning to keep that human form alive. This is in the animal kingdom also. So, studying deeply, trying to find who we are and what we are, we understand what the animals and the plant kingdom are penetrating through this form. We see the angels and the archangels. Angels. The angels are the elementals of the archangels. Now, an archangel is a being, spirit, ego. But the ego, the I-ness of an archangel is not exactly as the I-ness of a human being. There is a great difference in the expression, not in nature. In nature we are similar. There is no distinction, but in expression we are different. Now, how a human being has been created? We go back to the Old Testament. There it is stated that God, the absolute infinite being, said, that means expressed as logos, the will, pleasure. To whom? Let us create man according to our image and according to our likeness. Not different. Of course we know that he said that to the other gods, the archangels, the lords of the elements. He said that. Which means in which language? That means the absolute infinite being- ness vibrating the total wisdom, such as vibrating the same in the archangels. It was not given an order because the will, pleasure of the infinite being-ness was the will, pleasure also of the archangels. And of us a spirit solikos. So we also have created our own material self. What happens then? One ray, not more, of our real self, which never departed from God. A spirit started projecting itself in itself, in the absolute being-ness, and from that moment the spirit ego-self becomes also, without changing, as our soul. So, according to the study of the great ones, and anyone even now can approach this truth, from the great throne of the archangels, another ray of an archangel of the thrones descended, had been ego-fied with the soul becoming our guardian archangel. So we have the twin one, ego-fied. What does it mean ego-fied? By at-one-ment becoming one, yet not being one in nature, in expression being one. Let us make man to our image and according to our likeness. All the other archangels, similar in the absolute being-ness, now manifest their separate selves. As Michael's, Gabriel's, Raphael's, Uriel's, Cherub's, Seraph's, to start their own work. A great honor for a human being. You know that you are, in your material bodies, and in the etheric double, and the psychical body, and the etheric double, and the nautical body of yours, you are living in it now, in a body, in a material body. A Michael is working, a Raphael is working, a Gabriel is working, a Uriel is working, the Seraph's and the Cherub's are working. Now, this moment, just to keep your material bodies alive, is not a great, great honor. Do we appreciate that? Do we know that? By introspection and serious study, we will come to know all these things, and even come in self-conscious contact with these archangels. Know them. And when we do that, entering the so-called self-realization, according to Joshua the Christ, he said, joy is to your angels in heaven, which is in you, for one who returns back to his nature, back home. So, a Michael is arranging in your material bodies the necessary heat, the temperature. That's not you as a person doing that. A Gabriel is providing the liquids in the body. Shamal is providing the earth of it, the skeleton, and many others. Matter, not substance. Let us call it substance, but the way it is, matter, not substance. And then, Uriel is balancing the things to keep them in order. Raphael is giving the etheric vitality in our bodies. They all cooperate wisely, creating the red, warm blood. In our bodies only? No, in the animals also. And something like the blood is in the trees. Liquids going up the trunk, to feed the leaves. So, studying the nature around you, you'll be wondering at the total wisdom and the all-mightiness of these archangels, the lords of the elements, and of the locus. Now, studying the things around us, we study the nature of the archangels and the angels. Studying our nature now, as a personality, our personal self, we can approach the locus. Because the lord of life, selfhood, is the locus. Now, what is the relation between Joshua, Emmanuel, the Christ, with the locus? What is the relation? There must be a relationship between them. Of course, a wise one, Buddha, Bodhisattva, Buddha, predicted the coming of the one God in a human being, directly, without ascending the scale of reincarnations. Because before passing away, he said to his disciples, 500 years from today, God himself will be humanized. This is what they had, the wise men of the East, in their mind, the time when they came just to worship Joshua the Christ, the time of his birth. Now, we shall recognize now the relationship between Joshua the Christ, a young man who lived only 33 years. Did he live more? He crucified. But what was that young man, Joshua, Emmanuel, the Christ, to the locus? Of course, the locus was always, that was the real pleasure of the infinite absolute beingness, the ocean, the boundless ocean of life. And what it can be now, Joshua, a human being, a young man, a man just like any one of us? Yes. That young man knew from the very beginning who he was, and he knew, he was calling himself son of God, he knew it. And he has proved it with what he was doing, with all his life, and knowing Joshua. Before his crucifixion, when the Pharisees came provoking him, he said, before the foundation of the world, before Abraham, I am. He didn't say, I was, because he was speaking in the eternal now. So that means, Joshua, the God-man, so we must call him, was God, perfect God, being in his material body. And when, of course, they questioned about that, the Pharisees and others said, you don't believe, telling you that I am the son of God, and God believed to the works I am doing. So, Joshua existed 20 centuries, for 33 years, existed, was, all through the eternity behind us, is now, and will always be, the locus, and the son of man. Not only the locus, and the son of man. He said, I am the son of man. That means, I have passed through the idea of man, in the total wisdom of the Father, and of myself. So, while being on earth, Christ was feeling like anyone around. He was conscious of everybody. What is he now? As the King, the Divine Majesty in the Kingdom of the Heavens, which is inside everyone of us also. You read it in the Bible. What was he feeling, and what is he feeling? He said, you come blessed ones, because when I was hungry, you gave me something to eat. When I was thirsty, you gave me something to drink. When I was naked, you gave me something to put on. When I was in the prison, that means in the material body, incarnated, you visited me. And I told him, sir, when did we see you? Hungry, or thirsty, or naked? He said, in so much you have done to one of these lists of brethren of mine, you have done it to me. Because he was and he is in every human being. He had proved it. How? When he was speaking to his disciples, giving them instructions, and to the wise ones who visited him, to Philip and to Nicodem, he said, the flesh is nothing. It is the spirit which is giving life. He said, you are spirit. God is spirit, and those who approach him, should approach him in spirit and in truth. And Yohanan the Baptist said, I baptize you in water for the forgiveness of your sins, but you are coming after me. His first cousin, Joshua the Christ, will baptize you in fire and in spirit. In fire and in spirit. It is in the Bible. Who cares to understand what it means? This is what's wrong. They don't just try to understand what it means. And so, where is Christ now? Where is Joshua the Christ now? Was Joshua a man or the Christ? Just a human being who lived 33 years, was crucified, and he passed away to oblivion. No, he is now in every one of us. And what, as he said, the one man is doing to the other, good or evil, he is doing it to him. Does he feel pain? Yes. What did he say himself? Seeing people tortured, and others torturing people. My soul, as Joshua the Christ, is grieved unto death. Now, Christ, Joshua the Christ, was speaking in the Greek language. Because being himself in flesh and in sin, a Greco-Israelite, he was preaching mainly in the Greek language. In Aramaic, in Latin, and in many other languages. So, yes, Joshua the Christ is grieved to death as human being, as the locus. That's another matter. We don't know as locus how he is feeling. So, why did he come to the water, Joshua the Christ? Because he is telling it in his parables. But why? To wake us up, and tell us, you are gods, and you are in deep slumber with a little petty self, living in sufferings, in pain, in sorrow. In the God of separateness, the one fighting the other, and causing harm, the one to the other. That's why he came, and was humanized and incarnated. To wake us up to our divine nature. Yes, nice words, very good words. But there is no way how. How we should be sure about all that? He has shown the way. I am the way, the truth, and life. Which is the way? The way, we have to cover it with our own legs, and we have been given feet just to cover the way. He has shown us the way. By studying the phenomenon of life, which is our present day self, we must try to understand the various levels of selfhood. And see, who are we really? We are standing now. All people are not standing on the seventh step of the ladder of evolution. Why not all human beings on the same level? Because they are not. They don't want to. If they want, they can. Because the infinite beingness and the logos, as the lord of selfhood, is giving us in abundance the mind to use it. That's the ladder, it was said. The mind. And the mind is not the handful of earth which are the brains in the skull. So, everybody has the right to breathe and live as the human body. And everybody has the right to the daily bread which comes from heaven, which is the mind. Do we use the mind? We are all persuaded by Christ to use the mind and know the truth. Know the truth and the truth will set you free. That's clear. So, this ladder is the mind. And every step is to develop the mind. 1- The God of Life and Love Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Lighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. What can be a reality for each one of us is that we live. We live in a cross-material body. We can touch it, feel it. We are feeling we are living in it. And this cross-material body has on it certain organs giving us the senses. What do you call this sight? Seeing, feeling, smelling, hearing, living, knowing that we are living. This is a reality for us. Through these senses and especially through the sight, we know that around us is what we call the cross-material world. The world of forms. The world full of phenomena of life. Living forms around us. And we are just asking ourselves, what is life? What are these living forms moving about us and near us? What is this phenomenon of life? Is that coincidence? Many materialists say so. Stupid conclusion. Is what we call life, phenomena of life around us, the product of matter, of the cross- matter around us? This can't be because matter is the same. Yet for us human beings, it's stupid to believe it. First we see around us many other persons behaving in a wiser or in less wise, not to say stupid, way. We are examining their blood, their cool blood, it's the same. The quality of the blood, yes. The flesh, everything is not different. The bodies, exactly the same. Sometimes the same size. Yet the personalities living in those bodies are so different. Why? So a personality cannot be the product of the cross-matter, definitely. So, then another question is coming forward. I can detect life, see life in many different phenomena of life all around me. Later I shall just study what is life. But now another more pressing question comes. What is the personality of a man, of a human being? What am I as a personality? To do that, I must just pay attention and concentrate on the reactions in my personality. What is going on? I get knowledge of the outside world through my senses, especially through sight. But all of these things do not happen to everybody around me who have eyes to see and are living. Why am I impressed by this or that thing or things and the others are not impressed? Why am I influenced by certain conditions in life and the others are not? So I have now to study the personality of a human being. By observation, concentration, I can reach the relative truth, the relative truth, the truth by comparison. Because the absolute truth cannot be known in the material world or in the psychical world or in the ethical world. It's beyond the truth. The relative truth, we can understand it by comparison with two things. You can say, yes, this is different than the other, this is better than the other, that's true, but that's better than the other. This is the relative truth. The real truth, we cannot understand it, at least starting the phenomenon of life, the cross-material world. Now, what's the truth? Can we find the truth sometime? Of course we can. How? By studying everything around us, finding out the illusions in everything around us, given us through the five senses, we can detect at the beginning and find the truth behind everything. Because behind all the phenomena of life, behind every illusion is the reality. If the illusion is the shadow, there must be light, there must be something between the light and the shadow, and here is the shadow. But I can detect seeing the shadow and the thing in front of the shadow and the light behind it. The light is the truth. So, that's another matter that we study. Another matter, just torturing the minds of certain people, even the educated ones, the so-called educated ones, is the existence of God. Of course we can't say that all educated people are not believing in God. Some of them, they don't. Some of them, they do believe. In which God do they believe? Definitely not the God of the priests. They are right. They are right. Now, putting the question, does God exist? Is there a God? Now, we must make the definition, what do we mean by God, and a God? Because it's a word used giving to the human beings different impressions and different way of understanding maybe something superior to the human beings. But what can we know about God? What is God? And how can we detect and find God? And find God where? Now, I'm asking you, does God exist? Definitely God exists. Is God existing only? Of course not. Because in the world of existence, everything must have a beginning and an end and a form. This is the law of the world of separateness in the world of existence. So, if God is simply a phenomenon, like all other phenomena, living phenomena, all around us, then God must have a beginning and an end. Things have a beginning and an end. They had it always all through the past centuries, now and in future. But that means that God is the source of everything existing. So, I can see God now beyond the phenomenon of life, beyond time and a place, space, beyond the world of the three dimensions. So, I must find God even in the world of existence and beyond. How can I do that? Do I have the means of doing it? Of course, we have it. As we are given the air full of vitality, oxygen and everything, to breathe and our body, material body, to live, so we are given the mind, that super substance, our selfhood to breathe it, know and live in it, the world of existence. What is life now? Can we come to conclusions on what is life only by studying the billions and before, beyond numbers phenomena of life? Not exactly, but I can just understand something. So that all those phenomena of life, living forms exist, it must be life. And life is not only in the phenomena. Now, what is life? I can see life in various stages. I see life, kind of life, I can sense this life on the cross-material body, as sensitivity, sensibility, in the crystals, in the metals, everywhere. They are living. And now orthodox science, by splitting the atom, by studying the atom in the cross-matter, found in it the total wisdom behind it, as motion, movement, existing. Yes, orthodox science, sooner or later, will find out the truth. So, what is motion now? These are things that should engage the mind of a researcher of the truth, to find out the truth behind it. Definitely God is not what some religions and some people believe it is. It is, not He is, because God is beyond sex. And what is now? God. Life. The everlasting life. And living God is in us, and we are in God's omnipresence. So, God is not away from us, or far away from us. We are in it, and God is in us. So now, making use of that great, great gift given us by God, the mind, and by mind I don't mean that handful of material, cross-matter in the skull. I call mind, I am calling the formless super-substance, from which I myself can create now living forms. So that's another branch of study now. What is the mind? What are my possibilities in using the mind? What are those possibilities? In knowing everything, and detecting our real self behind our time and place personality, which is the shadow of ourselves, and not our real self. We can find what we are, and who we are. What are we in the everlasting life, as a selfhood, and how do we exist manifesting a petty time and place, little self, from nothing, nothing comes, and from the absolute infinite selfhood of our beingness, our petty little personality, self, comes out. So, through that, I can detect my nature, and the nature of everything around us. Now, what's God? Life, the everlasting life. We admit that. What are the qualities now of God? Can God just deeper in studying God? Studying God, by studying the phenomena, all the phenomena of life around us on the material plane, I can detect in God his total wisdom, what I call the superintelligence. Of course, that superintelligence exists, because if that didn't exist, how could we, in our personality, develop what we call human intelligence? From nothing, nothing comes. And these are our relations to God. And studying all the phenomena of life, in their form, I can detect and find the total wisdom of the infinite beingness. So, we study life in the cross-material world, metals, crystals, everything there, to see what I call sensibility or sensitivity. But I can study it now, in what we call the vegetable kingdom, in trees, in bushes, in everything. And I see that this vegetable kingdom, billions and billions of forms, have the same characteristics. Definitely, a form of their own, following a wisely circle of possibilities. No kind of life can escape from its circle of possibilities. Who fixed that circle of possibilities? For each phenomenon of life, unless a superintelligence, in its omnipresence, so we can detect that, by studying any or more phenomena of life around us. What else are these characteristics of God I can trace, besides what I call the total wisdom and the all-mightiness? Because nothing is beyond the control of the superintelligence, deciding about the circles of existence, the circles of possibilities of all forms of life. Only stupid people cannot see all that, or those who are not willing to study all that. So, I see now God, as life in what we call the vegetable kingdom. Forms of life, rooted on the ground, and the only motion and movement in them, is getting through their roots, substances and the water, to grow, grow, grow up, and give us what? Each kind of a phenomenon of life in the vegetable kingdom, kingdom will give me its flowers, its fruits. So, completing a circle of its possibilities, and in the fruit, I find the total wisdom of the infinite beingness, the possibility now, and the power of recreation. You can find it in every seed, in every kind of vegetables. Beauty, the flowers, and the form, and the shape of the trees. Harmony. We cannot see all that. And really, this vegetable kingdom is making our planet a kind of paradise, a very good paradise to live in. Then what do we see more? As life in form, because the main characteristic of the phenomenon of life is a form, their form. Billions, I said, and beyond numbers of forms. Now we come to the animal kingdom. Now, this kind of life has a body, a form, not fixed on the ground, not rooted on the ground, but moving about. So, in this kingdom, I find different characteristics. In the vegetable kingdom, I find just that sensitivity or sensibility. Now I find, in this animal kingdom, what I call the instinctive consciousness. Now, I find a kind of consciousness, receptivity. Can you use that word? Yes, and I find it, this kind of indistinct. We can study that. And still I find instinct in various stages, studying the life of animal life all around us. Besides that, I can study their form. Studying their forms, studying the organs in the bodies of the animals, then I find the total wisdom of the Almighty. Everything placed in its own place to function in its own way to keep that whole system in life. Each organ protected according to its importance. That's what I call the absolute super-intelligence. We can see it in a snail, in a tortoise, in a worm, in a butterfly. Everywhere we can see this total wisdom and the Almightiness. Nothing can escape from its circle of possibilities. That's life. Now, in the animal kingdom, seeing everything around us. Now, what about man? What about a human being? We are human beings. We are men. What we are doing, can the animals do? Can the animals use the mind? The mind is not in the head of a human being. It's everywhere in the omnipresence of God. Because their mind is not in human brains. Everywhere. The animals cannot use it. Why? At least consciously. They are using it instinctively. Because everything is mind and everything is made of the mind. They cannot go beyond their instinct. No animal has ever solved a mathematical problem or tried to create rockets and satellites or computers or just used the gross material to make televisions and all that. We are coming from the apes. That's an insult to God and the greatest stupidity because Darwin is the most blasphemous scientist. Nothing can escape from its circle of possibilities. If that was so, why all the apes? Now, why do apes exist and they didn't become, one of them, human? So, what's our difference now from all the animal life all around us? We can use the super substance to hold the mind in a different way and in the way prescribed also. Because in our bodies we have the instincts. In our bodies we have that sensitivity. In our bodies we have this subconsciousness which we can study all these expressions of life in the phenomenon of life called human being. But we go further. A human being can express a self. Yes, a self. Even being a creation in time and place and circumstances, that self till its nature is divine. We are gods and not animals. And gods and animals, maybe. But that doesn't mean that we are not gods behaving like an animal or sometimes are very wild beasts. That's a different thing. Now, our beingness, our self, even the petty self of a human being, male or female, as Mary and George, is God in its nature. Now, in the expressions it's a different thing and you have to study these differences between our nature and certain expressions of our nature which in reality is not our self. Because by introspection, studying the matter, we will find out that we are not that behavior. We detect that artificial self, the shadow of the self, which is not our self, which is the egoism of our personality. So now matters are more difficult to study in a human being. We have to study the personality. We study how this personality is using the so-called five senses, the reactions in it, the influences by the surroundings, and the counteractions created, I mean now, desires, emotions, and using in the wrong way thought, the mind, just to serve all these desires and emotions. So one should study now seriously his own personality which is nearly similar at all in the circumstances and in the nature of the personality. So studying our own personality, we cannot say we know the personalities of all people, but we can know the causes creating those reactions in those personalities and in our personality. So now we come to a very serious study. How? By using now the mind as observation, attention, concentration, and meditation to know what is what, what's that, what's that, what's that, something the animal life cannot do. Gods only can do it, even disguised as animals. Then what we find out by studying our personality? First that we are not what we thought we were, and we are something very different. We'll understand that we are not our desires and our feelings, because all those are changing all the time. So we have to study now the nature of desire, the nature of the feelings, how they are coming forward, how these feelings and desires are affecting us, how we behave, and what is the outcome of that behavior. So it needs now to study to find out at the end what? That we are gods, we are the ones who have the right and the power to change everything in our life as a personality, to change desires, emotions, free the mind from serving all the desires and emotions, and use the mind now, even by using the material brains, in a better way. And by using the mind now, as a clear, clear crystal mirror now, I see myself, my selfhood reflected in it. I will see a god. What will make me sure that I'm a god? Because I can change everything. If I'm not my material body, and I can master it, become the master of his material body, never mind that now, that body is just influencing my present personality, which is not myself. I can change my desires and emotions, control my emotions, which means that I am not the emotions. I can change the thoughts, the mind. He has used it, which means I am not the mind, I am not the thoughts. What am I then? The master of it. I'm not less. To all that, I am more than all that. And by thought, by introspection, and this kind of research, I see that I can use other senses as well, apart from the five senses, so important to me. They are so good for me as a human being. They are. But now I can see something else. I have super senses. I can expand that self of mine beyond the body in many places, get impressions, which I call that clairvoyance, clairaudience, many, many other things in super senses, which do not have an English name or Greek name or any name. You have just to practice them, to know them and use them. This is making you sure that you are now a God. For you now, what is written by Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ in the Bible, has much meaning, which didn't give any meaning before. Now you know what life and the qualities of life as light, light, light emanating from the sun. That's light also, but that's not the only light. You have the light of the world, apart from the light from the sun. In Joshua Emmanuel, the Christ, presenting his divine self, he said, I am the light of the world. I am the way, the course of things. I am the way, the truth, and life. He defines himself as the life, and he's showing us in the New Testament what life really means and what we are in life, and what is life to us. We are not the phenomenon of life. We are life behind it, and I can lay down myself as a phenomenon of life, as Joshua Emmanuel the Christ says, they can take it back anytime I like. So, do we become masters of life? No, we are life. We'll find out that we are life. That selfhood of ours is a part of the infinite absolute selfhood life, but we can manage to control the phenomenon of life, and even the phenomenon of life, which you call a human being. So, we are beyond a human being, as God. Did anybody until now reach that stage? Many, too many on the planet, all through the centuries. We call them the enlightened ones. Yes, and everyone can do that, or rather, I will put it in a better way, everyone sooner or later has to do that. The prodigal son has to return back home to the self-realization, to know God after all. He is, even as a human being. Not something, I am just to let you know. Shall we lay down completely our human existence? Who are we to call our human existence? I mean the human form. Unless we had it always. That was our nature. Our nature as an array of selfhood. Why did we choose? That human form. Detecting, I am speaking of my own experiences. We always have that human form, luminous, divine, and that's what we call our spiritual body. A body luminous in a human form, incorruptible, everlasting. We always had it. We have it in our bodies now, and we'll always have it in eternity. That's what we call our self-soul. So, soul is a reality. More reality than the human bodies. We are changing all the time by reincarnation, because that's the corruptible and eternal, everlasting. And do you see that? Once passing through the idea of man, the heavenly man, according to the Bible, we are dressing ourselves with this human luminous form. Now we had it. Now we get light around it. We cannot have something. We don't have it already. But by passing through the idea of man, to be humanized, it means to gather around our human immortal form, material. The mind elements ignore the states of existence. Phonetical, phonetic, super-substantial, the psychical, and the cross-material. Because even the cross-material body is mind. Everything is made of mind. The stones are solid mind. So, now we are approaching the truth. Gaining what? And who is gaining it? Gaining the self-super-consciousness. But who is gaining it? Our soul ego. It always has it. No. Our present personality, improving itself, storing in itself, as a permanent personality, all the experiences through all the incarnations. So, we are losing nothing. We are gaining everything. Shall we call that so-called permanent personality? Our soul, part of our soul, not only our soul, because our soul is also beyond the present-day personality. Now, who is studying all these things? Mary and George. Two human beings under so many weaknesses, so much confusion, are doing it. Now, we are doing it all this time as the permanent soul of our soul, without knowing it. Making the mistake to see all the mirror of the mind, matter, the psychical substance and the nautical super-substance, a reflection, which is not really our self. We are not a reflection. Because breaking those mirrors, and God is doing it in every incarnation, breaking it for us, to understand that we are not a reflection, we are not the image in the mirrors. And the image in the mirrors, this three-fold mirror material, psychical and nautical, are distorting our selfhood. They are presenting sometimes an angel of light as a monster, according to their cleanliness. So, can we clean these mirrors, so that we reflect ourselves in a better way? We can do even that, by what I call introspection, finding the truth. So, we are God, even as a human being, is God. The heart, the parts of life in our bodies, the parts of life in our personality, is God. And that God has to set itself free from the illusions, from matter. No, no need, from the illusions of matter. Because one can live in a material body, not being the slave of that material body, he can live with his emotions purified now, and the right thoughts, living in a material body, and feeling being God. So, who will be according to the Church, saved, going to salvation? They are not suggesting. What it is stated in the New Testament is the prodigal son returning back home. That's all. That's clear in the parable. Who is it? We. So, we have to find ourselves, even in our thoughts, in our emotions, behind them, behind our thoughts, by introspection, which means using all these things, controlling all these things, cleaning those, that three-fold mirror, the body, the psychical body, and the egotical body, to reflect our real image. Because we are image of God according to its likeness. It's clearly stated in the Bible. And so, the Bible has in it all the truth, though covered. You have to uncover it, to unveil it. So, what is now the duty, not of a seeker of the truth only, but of every human being? Every human being is exactly in the place, destiny, or the law of cause and effect, destined him to live, to learn the next lesson. Bitter or less bitter, sometimes sweet experiences. Not even a leaf is dropping out of a tree, unless it's the will of God. That's what Joshua the Christ said, when he was in front of Pilate. And Pilate just heard, of course, about the teaching of Christ. He didn't care much of it, though his wife was listening to the preaching of Christ very often. He wanted just that critical moment, to ask him certain very deep questions. What's truth? What's the truth? Why she should make this question to a so-called criminal? So, he knew much about the teaching of Christ. What did Christ tell him? Nothing, because to tell him what's truth, he would not understand. He was not ready to understand. Of course, the governor got angry and said, don't you see that I have the power of releasing you or crucifying you? To watch him speak. Yes, Christ spoke. What did he say? You don't have any right on me unless it is given you from above. Which means, unless this is the will of God. 1- The Many Mansions of Mind Vitality as Universes, Worlds and Planes Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us quite being in temptation and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself in your total wisdom and your mightiness in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Living and thinking, being able to think. It's a proof of the existence of God. I repeat it. Living and being able to think. It's a proof of the existence of God. Because it gives meaning to what you call life. Why? We see phenomena of life all around us. In the cross material world. Of course, studying all these phenomena of life, of the vegetable kingdom, of the animal kingdom, we can see, we can trace, we can find the total wisdom behind every phenomenon of life. Sing it. You see the harmony. You see that nothing is beyond the ability of an intelligence concerning that kind of life. You see many, many things in one kind of life. And you see in all things the total wisdom concerning that kind of life. Therefore, we can think and reason. So seeing life all around us, we see that all those phenomena of life are living. Are they thinking? Are the dogs thinking? Are the cows thinking? Using the mind as thought? No. Of course not. They express obeying to that feeling of continuing existing, the instinct of prolonging their existence. We see what we call it instinct. But instinct is not thinking directly of the one expressing the instinct. We see all animals around us expressing the instinct. But instinct is not reasonable thought. There is in it the wisdom, the total wisdom of the Almighty and the intelligences who are creating those phenomena of life. And maybe they are living in this phenomenon of life. Living in which way? Creating angels to control them. But who is controlling them? Behind the angels are the archangels. So we can see the total wisdom in every phenomenon of life all around us across material world. But all those phenomena of life are not expressing thought, as we call thinking. Some say that instinct is a kind of thinking. No, it isn't. Maybe it is the thinking of the intelligences behind the phenomena of life, of the archangels. Yes, I admit to that. The archangels can think, are thinking, are manifesting a self. Now, we have just to see now the relationship between thinking, using the mind in a special way with the self. Yes, now we come to see that the self, what we call the self, the holy archangels are expressing an archangelic self. The human beings are expressing a human self. But there is still a self common to all, which is the absolute selfhood, which is proving us not only the existence of God, but the beingness of God. So what is God for us now? We see now God from a different point of view than we saw it in previous lessons. See it in a more practical way, because we say that God is the absolute infinite selfhood. In its omnipresence there is no place, the sense of a place where we don't see the total wisdom. That means that expression of the divine selfhood. So, but who can do that? The cows, the dogs, the sheep? Not of course. But a human being can do it. Why? This is the proof that a human being having, expressing a self is God, similar to God. He has his divine being self, expressing it as a phenomenon of life, just like the other phenomena of life, but through that phenomenon of life we call a human being, we see the divinity, the right use of the mind in thinking. Now we are using the word mind. We said in previous lessons that the absolute infinite beingness, the mind is, but it is not existing in manifestation. It is, it is the nature of the absolute infinite beingness to feel its self-sufficiency. Now we see the mind in a different mode of beingness, not of existence. Now we see the mind in existence. We have to understand the two different things of being and existing. So the mind is unmanifested in the absolute infinite beingness. Now how is the mind in the absolute infinite beingness unmanifested yet? What we call the total wisdom. And the all-mightiness, it is there. So we find the total wisdom of the absolute infinite beingness in manifesting in itself inwardly, not yet existing, the mind. So the mind is of much, much importance, and in the world of beingness, and in the world of the beingness, and in the world of existence. We cannot understand what is the mind unless we study the mind in the lowest manifestations of it in the cross-material world. So the lesson today is just to understand the mind in the world of existence, manifested. Now we said in previous lessons, we are manifesting the mind. It is the nature of whom this mind, as we call it the mind supersubstance. Now what is the supersubstance? We cannot know exactly, since it is formless. It is motion, motion but without anything moving. So how can you trace motion if you don't have something moving to see it moving? And see it moving, you see the thing moving. Can you see motion causing the movement? So it needs much thinking to understand that seeing something moving, there must be motion in it, or using it to move. So, can you connect now the mind, supersubstance, and in all, in all these manifestations with movement? Definitely! Unless you see something moving, how you can understand what's mind, what's thought? Movement in time! Unless you have that movement in time, how you can have a thought? That is rather a little difficult to understand that, but that's the reality. So now we just connect the mind to what we call movement, motion. How can we use this word, a better word? Motion, movement, this is the same thing. Then we see the mind in the manifested world, manifested. Everything to exist, it is the mind. Now we can understand what is supersubstance, because from that supersubstance, unconceivable, we see coming out what is manifested, seen. We can see it now. It's creating something, and we said in previous lessons that all the universes have been created by the holy archangels, the holy intelligences, those selfhood, in the lokoic selfhood, using the mind. And we said that this mind, supersubstance, emanates from the absolute infinite beingness, and the beingness, and the holy archangels, as a result of the willful pleasure to manifest themselves, where? In themselves. Because they are omnipresent also. As omnipresent is the absolute infinite beingness. Now, more, it's not easy to understand. The real nature of all these things, it is not very easy to understand. Just using a handful of air, we call it the material brains. But of course, we can know much more when we reach that state of our existing self, the time and place self, to be awakened in the higher realms, not in need of using the material brains, but using directly the mind. But then, we are not common human beings. We are soul ecosystems, having the same form, the human form. We are still human, but still we are on a higher level, higher. Away from what I call the ground, the soil, the earth, the clay, call it whatever you like. So, shall we say now, that the material body, and the material brains, that handful of earth in our skull, in our heads, is barring out the reality from us. It's keeping us in the ignorance, definitely. This is what is making a human consciousness, no matter in which degree it expresses itself, to have the illusion, because that's not the reality, that's out of the oneness of the absolute infinite beingness, and creates a kind of separate self from all the other people expressing a self, and unfortunately from the absolute infinite beingness. So, we are in the oneness of the locus of the LCCI, of the absolute infinite beingness, yet being in a cross of material body, we have the feeling that we are different as something, not the absolute infinite beingness, that we get out of the oneness. It's an illusion in reality, because if it was possible to be like that, we wouldn't be able to live. We cannot get out of life. Now, we can understand what is life by studying the phenomena of life around us, and that phenomena of life, we call it our time and place self. Now, our time and place self, I don't mean the cross material body. We can study the cross material body by using the mind now, individually using the mind now. So, God the Father granted us the authority and the right to use the cross material mind, even separated from its oneness. He was this day our daily bread. Now, that we have the right to use the mind, the proof is that we are using the mind as thought, only as thought. Now, we can use the mind now as emotions, as desires. Still, we are using the mind as supersubstance and substance, but we can't use the mind still as ether. Now, the mind as ether becomes energy, power. Power already manifested, because the mind is power, but now we see it manifested. That power and cross matter. The cross matter is the mind solid. But solid, what do we mean solid? It's something we must understand. What is solid? In reality, nothing is solid. Since x-rays can pass through your body, how is it solid? So, now we study what we mean solid. It's something most important to study. Now, I speak of my own experiences. Solid is something we understand by touching it with something similar to the same vibrations with that thing you are touching. Otherwise, it cannot be solid for you. Now, we have a cross material body. We know our cross material body. We call it solid. It is solid for us as long as we are living in a cross material body. So, we touch things, cross material things, why they are solid for us? Because our hands are as solid as that thing. That means that hands are vibrating to that rate of vibrations as the other things are vibrating. So, we call them solid. This is solid, touching it. And what is solid in the cross material world is giving also ethereal or etheric feelings of cold, hot, and other kinds of feelings. Which means that holding, touching something with my cross material hand, something cross material, I get feelings. Why? Because in my cross material body is also what I call the body of the feelings, the etheric double, and the psychical body, exactly in the same form as our material body. Now, do you have the feeling of cold and hot and warm in the psychical plane? No. As you have it on the cross material world? No. But we have a kind of feeling there which is giving you that it is pleasing or displeasing to the various degrees of feeling pleasure or, we can't call it, displeasure, we can't use it, something we don't want it. So, the same thing applies to the so-called noetical world. Now, if I am out of my cross material body, I say I am speaking from my own experiences, and I come in this room. Now, of course, this is not an easy thing for everybody to do it. He must first be able to make self-conscious exosomatosis out of the material body being there. So, if you can, by practice, by training, just to express yourself except the cross material body, have the self-consciousness outside of the cross material body, what body will be solid to you now? This cross material body? Yes, as long as you are in it, you find it, it is your cross material body, solid, and you can touch and see things which are solid, cross material. If you are out of your cross material body, not bound in the etheric double, because this is a difficulty you have to overcome, from the etheric double, and be to the psychical world, and be in your psychical body, and you feel your psychical body, then your psychical body is solid for you, and everything vibrating to those vibrations of your cross, of your psychical body, are solid for you. So, you can touch things there and feel they are solid. Now, if I pass, if I am here, in my psychical body, self-conscious here, I can see all of you. Why? Because you have a psychical body. I don't see your cross material body, but I see your psychical body, in your material body. So, a fellow in exosomatosis, that means in, out of the material body, self-expression, is finding the cross material world, of course, quite easy to approach, though the cross material body is vibrating in such a way that you feel that's not your world to stay. So, you have to practice how to lower down your vibrations, to be in the cross material world. This is the difficulty they find. Those who depart from the cross material body, you call them dead, to approach and be too close to the cross material world. Because even if they come here, they find that attraction from another state. They cannot stay. They can be near their beloved ones, see them, try to talk to them. But what is the first impression of those who are living in the psychical world, soon after they leave their material body? Can they see their material body there, dead? Some do, but the angels, the angels try to make them not see their material body dead there. If they are self- conscious of all these things, they can just see it. When they can see it? If they know what we call exosomatosis, getting out of the body self-consciously, and you can see your material body there, entering it or going away, of course, it's not difficult. Passing away, just to see what you call material body dead there, then you know, I'm not dead. It is the material body which is dead now. But of course, the angels are laughing. Yes, that will not affect you. See it then. Because you are practicing, you know these things. Otherwise, the angels try, when a common man passes away, not to see his material body dead. But just to be convinced that they are living in their body, in their psychical body, considering it solid. And it is solid. Of course, the psychical plane is solid for them, because material body is not solid for them. They can pass through cross-material things without even noticing them. So they are losing the sense of solid. So solid is something we are feeling and not something which is in reality. So solid for a man leaving his material body is when he is feeling the solid through a body vibrating to the same rate of vibration with the things they are considering solid. So, for a fellow who is living the cross-material body, even in exosomatosis, one who knows how to do that, and for those who are living the material body by the phenomenon of the death of the material body, not of their death, there is no death for the personality. Solid is the word vibrating to the same rate of vibration with the body they are living in. So, if I can be here in this material world with my psychical body, and I see things, because I have their psychical counterpart. If I concentrate in these things, I can see them. Can I move a chair in the material world? Many times I have tried it. No. Because when I try, my hand will pass through it. That is not solid for me anymore, living in my psychical body. And if I want to move it, if it is necessary to move it, I have to lower down the vibrations of my psychical hand to the vibrations of that thing, and then I am able to move it. But, what people there will understand? That they see something materializing and moving it. And if you want just to move something in distance, never mind how far, it is very easy to go there with your psychical body, or even project an elemental of yourself and control it in far distant places. But how is that elemental? You see the psychical state, not in cross-material. You have to materialize it, so that it will move something cross-material. How? By lowering the vibrations to the rate of the vibrations of the solid thing you want to move. So, those who are living in the psychical world, the psychical world is for them real, and not the cross-material world. And I say, if they can descend, descend, why? The cross-material world is here, the psychical world is here and many kilometers around the planet. So they have to lower, just to descend themselves to the surface of the cross-material world. And I say that for those who are passing away, there is an attraction upwards which prevents them to stay in the psychical atmosphere of the cross-material world. But by training they can come down. Suppose a fellow can come down to this cross- material world from what we call, they call it spirit world. It is not yet the spirit world. The spirit world is much, much higher and here also. They come here, the spirits, they see people. These are certain spirits who approach the earth, you may call them earthbound if you like, who are influencing people living in the cross-material world and then we have the phenomenon of spiritualism which I don't approve. So, what are the mediums? Are there sincere and real mediums who can come in touch by the vibrations, just creating the vibrations to descend with that? Are there mediums on earth? Yes, of course there are. Those who by nature or by practice, sitting for development as they say, they become self-conscious of their etheric double because that's the in-between. They can just be in attunement with entities or beings, entities or beings, I will explain that, living in the psychical world. With entities living in the psychical world, I mean the elementals and the beings staying in the psychical world, the beings of those who have departed from the cross-material body and they are living in the psychical world or in higher worlds. The higher you are living, more powers you have just to descend to the lower worlds. That means development. So, why I don't approve spiritualism? Because as people now are using these mediumistic powers, coming in touch with the psychical world, they are not self- conscious to this world and self-consciously aware with this world. How can they know that they come in touch with an entity there or with a being there? An entity, I mean an elemental. So, there is much deception. They may be honest and sincere, but elementals could come and must get it that they are the beings. That's why I'm against spiritualism. Unless one is awakened, he's self- conscious to distinguish and understand this is an elemental and this is a being. And if one is able to do that, why should he come in touch with these beings or elementals? On the lowest plane, that means on the material world, and not himself go there where there are a lot of mistakes. Be more aware of that world. So, I say the psychical body of a human being is a reality. For me, yes, because I can use it. Self-consciously. The psychical world is a reality, which is where? And here, and many thousands of kilometers around our planet. Beyond that, not the psychical counterpart of the cross-material world, our Earth, they say that every cross-material body in space has its own etheric double and it has its own psychical counterpart. And I'm telling you, no human being living on this planet, living in a material body, or living in the so-called psychical counterpart of this planet, can leave the planet. He can be in the 49 sub-planes, it depends, of this planet, the hells and the paradises, according to the vibrations of his shell in which he's living. But no human being with his psychical body can leave the psychical so-called counterpart of the planet. Definitely. Even if they say they have gone to the other planets, or they are coming from the other planets, they are in illusion. They are mistaken. They think so. I say again, with the psychical body, nobody can leave the psychical counterpart of this planet, of the Earth, paradises, or hells. But, when a fellow, a human being, as a soul now-self, not as a personality, even hearing to his name, male or female, feeling it, being independent of soul-self, still being, what is his sex on Earth, as long as that fellow is living in a material body also, develops his self- consciousness to higher levels, to what I call, to his noetical body, he can visit the noetical world, and of the planet, and of any other planet. Why? Of the solar system. Because, though the psychical counterparts of any heavenly body cannot come in contact with the other psychical counterparts of any other planet, the noetical is just the ocean in which all are in it. So, he can go. I would make it plain. When one succeeds to be self-conscious, to use self- consciously his so-called noetical body, he can leave the psychical world of the planet. He can go to the noetical world of any other planet of our solar system. Now, I'm speaking again from my personal experiences. Being there, can you come in touch with the psychical world of that other planet? Yes, if you know how to lower down your vibrations from the noetical body to what I call your psychical body, and then know and move about self-consciously to the psychical counterpart of that planet. And I'm telling you, that's most difficult. It is not an easy thing. Can you materialize on the other planet? Going down, lower your vibrations to the cross-material world of Mars, or of Venus, or of any other planet? You can, provided that planet, the cross-material of that planet is not the same as our material world. And so, you have to learn to know the physics of that planet. As you can, through your noetical body, create, even create another psychical body, an elemental, on this planet, and then even materialize it in the cross-matter, you have to train yourself for that. You can do that also in another planet. You'll put the question, have you done that? I don't have time for that. There is so much cry of pain on this planet, and you have given just a promise to the most beloved one, to stay and serve here. I can, but I'm not willing to do it, neglecting my work of mercy on this planet. So, for me, what Joshua Manuel de Christ said, in my father's house, there are many, many impulsions. It is not something he said, and I believe it, but something I know it's true. It is. Yes. In our father's home, his father and our father, are many, many mansions. That means many, many worlds. That's why I'm using always the word universes, and not universe. And all those wise ones who have lived before us said, your universes, Allah, are full of your glory. Many, many wise words. So, this planet, Earth, now human beings know much, much, much about this planet, since they can go around it, flying around it, with jets and everything. It's very small for the human beings now, and now they want to search other worlds. They make a mistake. They want to visit other cross-material worlds. They move. They try to go to Mars. Why don't they try just to contact these worlds? In another dimension. This is what's wrong with the orthodox science now. They are still bound on the cross-matter. What is their gain if they go to Venus, or to Mars, to Moon? They have gone to Moon. They went there, walked there, found the conditions there, and that's knowledge. That's good. But is that the right direction? No. They are wasting their time. They can study these worlds with other means, by knowing the worlds of other dimensions, and other dimensions. It's much easier for them to visit these worlds, and see even the cross-material counterpart of those worlds. That knowledge will be given to them. Seek the Kingdom of the Heavens, and everything will be given to you. This is great truth. But, of course, searching the cross-material counterpart of those worlds, how do they know of the worlds of other dimensions connected with these worlds? That means the psychical counterpart of Venus, or the psychical part of Mars, or the noetical world of Venus, or the noetical world of that. So, they are on wrong direction. For how long? They will find the necessity now to see, but after it's not only the cross- matter that counts. They started already to understand that there are other worlds of other dimensions, which they should study, should know more about it. And besides, it is the world that sooner or later we have to go. For how long a human being will live in a cross-material body? More than 100, 150 years. So, God the Father is giving us the lesson, you stupid ones. Your life in a cross-material body, in this cross-material world, is not endless. And you know now, using the mind, the animals cannot use the mind and know that there are other worlds, and there is another way of life, and what is even the meaning of life, living instinctively. But we are God. We can study and know our nature, besides the cross-material body, as our emotions, and come in conscious at the beginning, conscious contact with our psychical body, and later coming self-conscious contact with our psychical body. That studying and studying and practicing, can see that we can afford ourselves to hire planes to come at the beginning again, I say, in conscious contact with the neurotical world, and later in self-conscious contact with the neurotical world. Which means, coming to the reality. What is life in the world of existence? We are still in the world of existence. So, in the world of existence, we find the cross-material world. All the cross-material counterparts of all the heavenly bodies, in the human space. But I say to you, we must get to other directions, to other dimensions, and we must start from the fourth dimension of our cross-material world. How? By studying our fourth-dimensional psychical body. Develop it. Live in it. Be conscious of it, and then self-conscious of it. And then, for us, living in the cross- material world is possible. And live at the same time in the psychical world of our planet. That means, getting to another room of our house. So simple as that for me. Being aware that in our house is not the only one room we are living here. There are other rooms, bigger rooms, bigger halls, and I can enter in them and see in them what it is. So, 1- Understanding Elementals Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting thyself in thyself, as thou art total wisdom, and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen. We said that the absolute, infinite reality is the absolute, infinite beingness. God the Father, the source of everything. This absolute, infinite beingness is in itself sufficiency. But in this absolute, infinite beingness also, in its total wisdom, is also the wish, if we call it like that, the will pleasure, to manifest its total wisdom where? In itself, of course. This absolute, infinite beingness is omnipresent. So this will pleasure, to manifest its total wisdom in itself, emanates from it what we call the mind. The mind is a super-substance. In the absolute, infinite beingness are billions and billions and billions beyond numbers of beings in it, similar to the absolute, infinite beingness, immortal. They have the same qualities with the absolute, infinite beingness, which is the self-consciousness, which means the selfhood. We tried many times to explain what is selfhood. Of course, it's difficult to give a definition. Awareness of being maybe is the best expression. How these absolute, infinite beings in the absolute, infinite beingness are, nobody can say. But the time this absolute, infinite beingness can express its will pleasure to manifest itself, when? It was always. There was not any sense of time in which there was not this will to manifest itself. Certain of these beings in the orders of the principalities and the authorities in the absolute, infinite beingness start co-vibrating to this will pleasure. This co-vibration causes the emanation from them also and from the absolute, infinite beingness, beingness, just their nature to express this total wisdom. These absolute, immortal beings co-vibrating to the will pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness, we cannot give any name to it yet, but classify themselves according to this total wisdom and the work they are doing, the creation of the universes, classifying them in their orders, their archangelic orders. How many? Nobody can say. Nobody knows. But we can trace and know certain orders of these archangels according to the work they are doing in creating the universes, becoming also the lords of the elements. Now, what are the elements? Certain degree of vibrations of the mind's super-substance, because everything, all the universes are created by means of the mind's super- substance. And I said many, many times, when we say mind, we don't mean a handful of matter which is in our skull. I gave the example. Just a battery is not electricity. It might be charged, but it may not have anything and be thrown away. So, must have in mind that in the omnipresence of the absolute infinite beingness now is the mind. It was unmanifested in the absolute infinite beingness, but now it emanates from the absolute infinite beingness, the absolute beings in it becoming now Allah, our God, the absolute infinite beingness. So, understand the difference between beingness and beingness. We don't have a second God. So, I'm God in a new expression in itself, the locus, the El Shaddai, according to the old Egyptian language and to the Aramaic language. The Greeks call it locus, but what's locus in the Greek language? Manifestation, it means. So, God manifested, presents itself as the locus. Now, we said that these beings, beings now classifying themselves into their archangelical orders are co-creators with the absolute infinite beingness now. Yes, but now each order had a certain work to do, cooperating with the other orders to create the universes, the worlds of existence. Now, we see a different thing. Beingness, beingness and beingness and existence. The beingness and the beingness are everlasting, but the worlds of existence under certain laws are presenting something starting with a beginning and have an end, as everything in the world of existence, everything in the world of existence has a beginning and an end. Which is the law of this world of existence? The duality. Everything in the world of existence is dual, is in the duality, which means the divine, everlasting, immortal side and the mundane, the worldly, which is always under change, the law of change. Now, in a human being is this duality. In the other side is the spirit, soul, ego, self, immortal God, our real self, everlasting, in eternity. And in a human being now, in us, it's the mundane, which is our personality and our bodies. Our cross-material body, it's etheric double. The psychical body, it's etheric double. The noetical body, it's etheric double. The noetic body, now we call it body, the work of the holy archangels of the creation, created the human being, how? To the image and according to the likeness of God and of the holy archangels, which means life. Now, we can see what we call life now, because everything is living, stones, crystals, everything is living. We can see now what we call life in the cross-material world, in the other world, in the ethereal, in the psychical world, in the noetical world, but we see life in different kinds, this life. What is life? Again, it is very difficult to describe, though we are also living, but now we have to see it in the double way. Life itself, which is God as beingness. As beingness, it is the archangels, that's life. Life everlasting in eternity. But now, we see life now in the phenomena of life. How many phenomena of life we have just only on the cross-material world? Beyond numbers, from the atom, the amoeba, the worms, the flies, the butterflies, everything, the animals, the trees, everything. We have no count the phenomena of life and you can see now life as God, as motion. You cannot understand life on the cross-material plane if there is not what it is in it, movement. The substances are moving in the trunk of a tree to spread, create branches, leaves, flowers, fruit. So, we see the constant, continuous motion. The animals, the circulation of their blood in their bodies and growing, growing, growing. They start from the semen, all the animal life, birth, coming into existence, coming to existence, in the words of existence, and growing, growing, growing, growing, till they reach the end of the circle of their possibilities in existence. And just, so all phenomena of life have to surrender this, what is called life in them, to their source, to life. So, we have now to study the phenomena of life and life. The phenomena of life, it's not difficult just to study them, see them, learn much about them, but what's life? No human being can know what is life, though a human being is living. It's a phenomena of life before that human being reaches that point of manifesting itself as the spirit, soul, ego. That he or she now, beyond sex, in their I-ness, in the real ego, the mortal self cannot know what's life, because they are the life now. So, we understand life beyond the phenomena of life. So, we now see that in the words of existence, starting things in the words of existence, we must see the dual, analyze it, and understand it. Now, I had a question from one of our seekers of the truth the other day, of the inner circle. Yes, Rascal said, yes, we understand our dual existence and our being. We are soul, spirit, ego, self, divine, and we have, and we think we are the cross-material body, our bodies, and all that, because we are spirit souls. But you said the animals, all the animal life around us, do not have a soul. What is the divine, double part of them, in them? It was a very good question. He said, yes, of course, you are complete as the self in your duality, which means you can, according to the Bible, image a likeness of God to be both. And while being even a human being, expressing yourself as a pretty time and place self, your personality, develop that part in yourself, just to this point of knowing who you are, by using consciously sometimes, not subconsciously, as you do now, self-consciously the mind, to have it a means to understand who you are. You have your self-consciousness. While the animals are living, they are expressing simply the instinct of being animals, and nothing more than that. But they have the divine in them, which is the angels and the holy archangels behind it, creating it. Shall we say that all forms, any form, in the vegetable, in the animal kingdom, in all the kingdoms, manifesting just a phenomenon of life, has behind it an archangel and the angels, just corresponding to our spirit, soul, self? Yes, that's the great truth. But this duality is not pure. The divine side is ruling the lower side, giving it an expression. But they never, these archangels and angels, combine themselves with the phenomenon of life. They use it. But in our case, very rightly says the Old Testament, God and the holy archangels have created man as a phenomenon of life, to their and to his image and according to their likeness. Many are reading this, but they don't understand what it means, the image and the likeness. Of God. So now we see the human being. Which is the image of God in a human being? Which is not in the animal life? God as absolute infinite beingness, and thus the absolute infinite beingness has in it its plurality, in its oneness. That is, the oneness in it is the plurality. Oneness, the absolute infinite beingness, the absolute infinite beingness is plurality. There are billions and billions and billions and billions of beings, all the archangelic orders, which have never detached themselves from the oneness of the source. And now what's the difference of these beings, the holy archangels, from the Father? Because even Joshua, feeling being the son of God, feeling being the Logos himself, he said, the Father is bigger than I am. So what is now the difference of these holy archangels, these immortal beings, classifying themselves in their archangelic order, from God? The way they express themselves, creating, is getting only one side of the total wisdom. And I will give just a real example. You have the light. The light is colorless. Can you see the light? No. But if you have a prism, a diamond, something, and put it in the light, then you see the light, red light, green light, all colors, the seven colors. All these colors are the light. But compare each color, light, with the light. This is the difference. So what is the absolute infinite reality, beyond the phenomena, is the absolute infinite, for us, beingness, not the beingness. Nobody can trace this absolute infinite beingness, God the Father. So, being image of God, or Allah, as Joshua used to call it, we have in us our plurality, in our oneness as our present day personality. Which is this plurality? Which is created by us being part of our personality, yet we are not that. These creations in our plurality have part of ourself, which withdraws from them, when we disenergize them. Now you understand what I mean, plurality. It is the elementals composing your present day personality. That is being image of God. Now we come to the point. Everything we see, without even concentrating on it, with everything which draws our attention, not even creating anything more in us, for the time being, everything that excites, what we call in us, desire, wish, to know it, to approach it, and later, to have it, to possess it, everything is creating an elemental, without our notice. And everything in nature, the law of nature, is the form. And those which we call now elementals, because they are created by the elements, have their form, a form. The human beings cannot see them, because they don't have cross-material form. But they have a form in our desires, in our thoughts. We call them emotion thought- forms. And though they are not visible to the cross-material eye, yet they have in them much power and strength. Sometimes even to crush their creator. This, of course, psychiatrists calling them fixed ideas, and giving them certain names, without defining them, without knowing their nature, and how to deal with them. So, how many such emotion thought-forms, we can classify them there also, are composing our present personality, the present personality of George, John, Helen, Mary. Studying the behavior of these persons, studying the way they are living, their desires, their emotions, their passions, their weaknesses, and all that, we can understand the quality of these elementals. They can be a legion of such elementals. And we can classify them. In our research, we call them human demons and human angels. Why? Everything that is causing dissolution, as hatred, envy, certain passions, we call them human demons. But all these elementals, usually the thought-forms, using the right thinking and the right way of thinking, are creating elementals. We can call them human angels, creating. We will see in them what we call love in its various degrees of expression. So now we know from what is composed, I think this is the word, of the present-day personality of a man. And you can never find on the planet two people, male or female, being the same, because their plurality, their emotions, are composed in the personality. But yet this personality, composed in this way, has the parts in it, their life, your ego-self. That's why I said before, it's you, and yet not completely you, your personality, which is composed by your... Now, we speak more about these elementals, studying the nature of these elementals, which are created by human being subconsciously. Eighty percent, we must classify them, demon elementals, human demons, and only twenty percent can be just classified as human angels today, unfortunately. Because most of them are created by the emotions, the desires, and the weaknesses a human being has. And the cause, the main cause, from which Lord Buddha wants to detach the human beings, is what we call attachment to, and the desire of possessiveness, having, getting, and enslaving yourself in what you call yours, a jewel, house, property, and all that. So rightly, the Enlightened One of the East, Lord Buddha, put us first in detachment from things. Now, we see now these elementals you create. First of all, they have a form. A clairvoyant can see them. Second, they have in them energy, so much energy, according to the desire of the fellow who is creating them, and the thought. Now, studying an elemental, a common elemental of a human being, we classify them, I said, in two classes, by studying it. Emotion-thought form, or thought form. Why? If the three-fourths of the existence of this elemental is a desire, an emotion, a weakness, we call it demon, human demon, is a desire, it has in it also the thought. How? To be accomplished. What to do? So, we see it in this way. If in that elemental, there must be a desire of knowing, a scientist, studying, finding ways, because there is a kind of desire to know. But more is the thought, the right thought, good thinking. It might be ninety percent pure thought, and one percent the desire of knowing. So, we see the degree of emotion and of thought composing these elementals. Now, these elementals, we said, and Joshua Manuel de Cresci is describing them in the New Testament. How are they created? By the mind super-substance, the form of the mind super- substance. The mind is granted to every human being daily by God. Now, when an elemental is created, it's not bigger than the point or the head of a pin created here between the nose, inside. Let it be a very big construction, let it be a vast space of land. The one who desires having it, not bigger than that. But when it's created, it comes out. To get its right measurement, dimension, coming back even so small as the head of a pin entering in us, but having in it everything in the desire of the fellow who created it. So, you can see here, in the root of the nose, a studied elemental, not bigger than the head of a pin, of a big, big construction in the mind of an architect. So, now come to another point. What are measurements, sizes, and how to understand size and measures? Many times I have studied these things. I had a friend of mine, a big architect, who is in our circles. He got created just such an elemental of a big construction of many, many, many flats there, living in them, seeing everything, even the fountains, and how they will be made, and this and that, everything in that. That elemental was not bigger than the head of a pin, just in his mind, as a form, but form complete. As the holy archangels are creating the seats and everything, and everything has in it the circle of the existence of that kind, a human being is doing it also, but subconsciously. So, we are together, and I told him, what is in your mind now, I said, sir. He said, yes, it's something torturing me, the nature of how to do that, and that, and that. And I, seeing it, seeing it, I just imagine that, how, how big, what size, as the head of a pin. Yet, I couldn't enter in that construction in his mind, because that was in a different dimension, not in the cross-material body. We are the image of God. I told him, I know what is really troubling you. You want to make an apartment, I said, for yourself and your family, and you are thinking, if you make the fountains, cold, gilded, what the other people will say, and when you show them, and of course, he started asking, how did it come to your mind? That's true, because I have entered, I said, in your reconstruction, and I have seen what is in it. I tried to explain to him, how, and sizes, and things. So, imagination is a real thing. Imagination, no. But concrete thinking, and making forms, is real, because we are the image of God. Now, of course, it's rather puzzling to you, because you cannot understand anything beyond what we call normal and real, but reality is far away from what you are calling real. So, that elemental was so strong, and couldn't leave him quiet until he had built that big. How do you think all these constructions around you are built? By that. So, with these elementals, the human beings have changed even the face of the planet. How? Subconsciously, not self-consciously. So, even subconsciously, through these elementals, you can do many, many, many things. Just think, what you can do, if you are doing it consciously, and later self- consciously. What can you do self-consciously? Not, of course, all this trouble, gathering matter, and all that, and employing people just to bring that big thing there. No, you can do it self-consciously. What Joshua Emanuel was doing self-consciously, just materializing the mind vitality, feeding 5,000 except the ladies, the women, and the children, just materializing into bread and fish, the etheric vitality. Just imagine how much stuff as bread and fish you need to feed so many people. He has done it. In the Bible, you find it, in one case, feeding 5,000 except women and children, and in another case, 4,000. I am telling you, he has done it many, many times, feeding people. Not in great numbers, but feeding people with the etheric vitality, materializing it. So we come to another point, materialization of the mind super-substance, which is a proof now that you can do it. And what Joshua Emanuel said, whatever you will ask in prayer, what is prayer? Believing that you have it, you will receive it. And that was the truth. But now we come to another point. What does it mean, prayer? What does it mean? Believing you will have it, or faith. A human being today is all doubt, about himself he is doubting, about his abilities he is doubting. So what can he do? Now, we said, creating with you are, every human being, desires, emotions, elementals. How do these elementals are working? In two ways, directly and indirectly. What do I mean? Every elemental, never mind if it has the size of the head of a pin, it can get out and get the normal size, and get back just to this size, as the head of a pin, most powerful. Directly, influencing the man who created it, to use the mind and think how this desire will be accomplished. The fellow is thinking, I must work, get money, earn money, buy things, and do what I like. It's a direct way, which is not, of course, very, very strong. Or he has other passions, other elementals, of theft, stealing, doing, yes, I will steal some money from a bank, I'll do that, and I'll get the money and buy it, or some other means. There are many, many ways. See how that elemental is working in that personality of a man or a woman. Many ways, very powerful. Indirectly and with much strength, leaving them alone, they have the power of bringing to you what you wish and you desire. Your wish will be accomplished, fulfilled, sooner or later. Now, we like to have something. Many times I heard that from many people around me, that's coming. Yes, I was longing of having that, that, and that. As long as I was thinking, for months and months, it didn't come to me. But I had other thoughts, something other, interesting me, and I forgot all about it. They have come to me. I said, yes, because you gave them time to work. All the time, when they were going out, you were bringing them in, by remembering them again. Loading them with your desire, more, making them more strong, going out, remembering, come back again. You must stop thinking about them once you create them, so to give them time to do their work. So now we see the two kinds of activity of these elementals, through us, influencing us to find means and ways, and their own way, which is their nature, because the mind and the elemental created by the mind, even calling it an evil elemental, tends to fulfill the way it was created, why it was created. So we must have that in our mind. And we'll find out that many, many, many such elementals, they will be fulfilled in another incarnation, in a future incarnation. But when you develop and develop and develop, when they are fulfilled, you find that those desires of yours are now stumbling stones on your way. They should better not be there. You don't want them now, but you made them. This is what makes human beings now living on our planet rich, less rich, poor, very poor, and all that. It is the elementals which had composed their personalities in past incarnations. Now, in past incarnations, do we believe in reincarnation? Yes, definitely we do believe in reincarnation. Of whom is that reincarnation? Suppose you are in an incarnation, Ahmet. You are born now, John. Is Ahmet born into John? No. And you are now John. You think that new personality, you call it yours, who's been incarnated after some years, somewhere else, in another place of the planet. Different way of thinking, living, and being. Is that you today? No. When you now in this incarnation, rich, you are right self, you are real self, the spirit ego, the ego. Then, of course, the ego has the right to say, yes, oh, these are incarnations of mine, but not you. The second and third and fourth page of a book is not the fifth and the sixth and the seventh page. They are pages of the same book, but they are different. This is how reincarnation was taught by Joshua the Christ. What it is in the Bible? It says, when they ask him, it is in the scriptures that Elijah is coming first to put things in order. Because the Jews believed in reincarnation. What did he say? Elijah has come already in the spirit of Elisha. He didn't say as Elisha or Elisha. In the spirit of Elisha, that means the spirit which incarnated Elisha is incarnating now John. The spirit soul of Elisha and not Elisha. Elisha is becoming now a living shadow in the cosmic consciousness. Because when you reach that point of being able to see all these things, you will understand, yes, that you have just a relationship with your past incarnations as a spirit soul being and not as any expression of it, the personalities. But as people now are believing reincarnation, even in this, or the English people, it's a misleading mistake. Definitely, no human being can be incarnated into an animal. No animal can be incarnated into a human being. That's definite, clear. Why? Because it's a different course of development and advancement of that kind. So this is our just difference with what other people believe in reincarnation. The spirit soul can be incarnated and not the shadow or the present personality with its vices. Is there any relationship between the old incarnation and the new incarnation? Many times I hear people ask, what is now, is it karma from past incarnations? Well, there is some truth in it, but not absolutely. Because you are given new chances now to work. But the present incarnation of yours has in it what I call the permanent personality, the in-between, the personality and the soul, which is common to all incarnations. But this needs much study to understand when it brings forward the lessons of the past incarnation, if those lessons had not been learned. So what you call karma is not a punishment. It is the means of learning, knowing and advancing. 02 - Labyrinth Now, we have two ways, nature and ourself. What is a human being now? We are human beings. But what is a human being? They said, studying a man or a woman, the life in their bodies, we know what is a woman or a man in their bodies, in their material bodies. But what about the character? Can you know all male or all female persons by studying Mary or George? No. Now, we have to study what is the self in a personality. You have to study now this kind of self-colored, not bright color, but colored. Study them. And start to separate what is common and what is personal. Now, this is interesting us now. We leave nature around us for the time being, though a seeker of the truth is doing both. By observation, studying and using the mind, he is studying everything taking place around him. Because unless he will do that on the material plane, he will not just have that tendency of observing things in the other planes. Don't think by studying a book or yoga. Just knowing that there are centers on the material body, or rather on the etheric double of the material body, called chakras. We call them centers of energy. And opening them and this and that, you will be self-conscious in the psychical plane. Nothing more misleading and stupid. Because I have seen many, many people, who happen to get a book on yoga from this, trying, as they say, to wake up their chakras, who became neurasthenic. We are getting many, many letters for the day. Oh, it has opened the Kundalini or that and that and that and that. And what I see is forms of schizophrenia. These things lead to schizophrenia and neurasthenia. Not that these centers do not exist. They do exist. But it is under the authority of the holy archangels of the creation, doing the whole work. And the seeker of the truth should be serious to observe this creative work in their bodies, and then understand and cooperate with them. And not just try to violate the laws of nature. So, it is by observation, introspection, and using the mind in the proper way, that you can find yourself self-conscious in the psychical plane. And make what we call exosomatosis. Exosomatosis means knowing, having the self-consciousness independent from the material body. And not by other means, which are leading, I said, to neurasthenia. So, these are the means we will be using. Our divine nature of observation. And learning how to use the super substance of the mind, the greatest gift given to human beings, by the father, God, so that we just see the truth. And proceed now with reverence. Because nature, even the material plane, for a true seeker of the truth, is a church, a temple of God. And should live, just in a serious way, of studying and understanding the ways of the absolute infinite beingness, if God is tempting some, the creators, and the creator. So, what is the duty of every reasonable human being? And what human beings calling themselves intelligent and reasonable today are doing? Joshua Manuel de Christ spoke about all these things. He said, what is the nature of a human being now? As a man or a woman? Being born, growing, growing, growing, and what? In growing, as a man or a woman, in their environment, in their family, in their home, in their society, are to do, to increase within them, does that feeling of possessiveness, catching, getting, and calling that and that thing, their own? Now by observation we will find out, what creates this feeling of ownership, and enslaving the mind, in this, I'll call it tendency, not to say desire, because you must understand the difference between these two words. In this way we start to study the character of the human beings, not only one, all of them, because all of them are under the same influences, under the same impressions, living today. So we have just to say, what is desire? What is the human body? We have to study the human body, by studying the human body, and the total wisdom of the Holy Archangels of Christ working in our material body. Just study, this thing, seeing a book on anatomy, what we find out? That we are not the human body, because the human body of any human being, man or a woman, is the same always, the same is the body of a woman, with the bodies of every other woman. It is the same the body of a man, with the bodies of every other man. That it is shorter, taller, that there is no difference. You know what is a male person? You know what is a female person? This is the common thing in human beings. But now, we are coming to another branch of study. I don't say that we will leave that behind, not study it, the same way we are studying what is going on in nature all around us. That our nature, divine nature of observation, we should use it any moment. To use it, in what we call waking consciousness. Now, and just get the habit of using it during the time your present personality is sleeping, going to the other dimensions. So, what is now desire? And what is this desire doing? Is desire always a sin? A necessity? How just to study it? Should not just jump from impression to impression and reach to wrong conclusions. Have to study the nature of desire. What it is? It is our so-called psychical body. That we find our psychical body. And what we find? That we were using this psychical body all the time subconsciously without knowing its existence. But using it. And being under its influence. So, we have to wake up. Know who we are and get control of this psychical body. But you cannot do that unless you have mastered already the physical body. Studying what is the physical body? Who am I? And what I am in that material body using it? So, I shall study the nature of other bodies. Of the psychical body. So, I have just step by step using the observation and the reasonable thinking as meditation to know as much as I can know of the relative truth concerning the matter I am studying. So, seeker of the truth should study what is desire. You say, what is desire now? I am telling you. Both an angel and a devil. And who is making that angel a devil? You. By becoming a devil you make it a devil. But being or becoming an angel it's an angel. So, the desire is a mirror in which you reflect your own self. But now we come to another confusing point. Which self? But is that image I see this mirror of desire really my self? Because we will not extend on this matter now. I say by studying I find that similar to this kind of expression of a personality I call desire I see that combined to it is the way of thinking. And you find out that you have been misusing subconsciously this divine gift of the mind as thought and slaving it to the desires. That's making the desire a devil. Under the reasonable thinking of a reasonable being it's a blessing it's a necessity and not a curse. Then I find out that apart from what I call desire now studying the psychical body which has its form because everything to exist must have a form. I see that I find myself in another body. What do you call it? The nautical body. The mind body. I can't just use the word mind body because in mind body I have also the nautical not only the nautical body the higher mental as some people call it. So we have just to study its nature and what it is. What is the mind? Not now the mind as the super substance but as I made it part of myself my mind. I got a drop of this mind from the ocean of the mind they have colored it now in hot way of my present personality my weaknesses my vices my virtues many many things so now myself using again observation and the right thinking by coloring the mind and seeing what is behind the mind as my desire what do I find? My own personality now here is the critical point my own personality but who is doing it and what is that my present day personality as mind and emotion then you separate yourself from that I was making the mistake to think that that kind of personality the sinful personality the transgressing personality is not the reality myself I am something else then you feel dual while you are one you make the mistake that you are so called equism of the personality is yourself but it is not yourself now you are reasoning now we give exercises which make you by introspection observation and meditation to separate this petty call it selfhood which is the present day personality sequence from your real self your real majestic divine self which is God you not God in you but you then it is the time to understand who you are as a soul self now studying the personality you can study you are petty self as a man or as a woman in the phenomenon of life but now reaching this point finding your soul self there is no sex there when they have asked Christ once who are you he didn't say I am Joshua Emmanuel I am a human being he had shown how you should think he said to the Jews in Aramaic I am what I am and in Greek because he was speaking the Greek language being in a sin himself the mother language of Christ Joshua the Christ was Greek and Aramaic I am what I am he was speaking as the soul and the soul of a male or a female person has no sex but it's an archangel it is that kind of self we should find as being ourselves that self disentangling our real self from the image we see in the mirror of emotion and of thought and what is God doing to us every few years we see as our self a distorted image of our self in the three-fold mirror of matter emotion and thought you look at it now you have to clean that mirror to see yourself you see it much distorted you see it now like a monster looking there you make the mistake to see I am that the desires the weaknesses the emotions the thoughts on this or that matter like that God is breaking those three-fold mirror every few years is God evil or most merciful most merciful to make us sleep see better and clearer and then giving us another mirror and another mirror another mirror to make it more clean we have to make it clean to see ourselves reflected in it properly that means incarnation so what is the real gain of a seeker of the truth man or a woman to find the real self to find the self reflected on the mirror and not make the mistake that the image in the mirror is the self and one of the aims of the seeker of the truth is just to annihilate his personal egoism because unless the personal egoism is exterminated annihilated the real self the son of the real self will not arise and you will make the mistake that you are your desires your thoughts your emotions when I gave this lesson before some years to the inner circle a fellow who is a poet told me you know you have destroyed everything good in me I said why you deprived me of my emotions and of my thoughts what remains to me I said your own self remains to you just find that self and you will understand that you are not losing anything you are gaining everything because you think what you are gaining just because you the self as the sun shine there and you know you get notice of what you see be the sun yourself and you can have everything know what is the kingdom of the heavens which is in us he described them and what did he say seek search the kingdom of the heavens and you are losing everything did he say that no seek the kingdom of the heaven and everything you are losing everything is yours it's a great mistake to think that reaching that stage it means throwing away everything it is just clear that you have different now things to love higher things to love that's true and things that now are interesting you will not mean much to you but reaching that everything is yours seek the kingdom of the heavens and everything will be added to you everything and you have to select suppose you are a child a boy and you have marbles playing and playing and collecting and collecting stamps and getting stamps and you make a nice book with collection of stamps and you grow up you don't need anymore collecting stamps now you are collecting money banknotes pieces of paper which are called money for me it's not much a difference but there is a difference for the people collecting stamps and now collecting money but as one David fellow now collecting money and banknotes and everything those stamps mean nothing to him believe me someday when you have the heavenly things all these things on the material plane will mean nothing to you so you are not losing anything you are gaining everything well am I losing all this who is just depriving a millionaire to get again the book of his stamps and enjoy his stamps if he wishes to nobody so no need just to throw away things you can have everything what you are losing the fascination of things and what the Lord Buddha Bodhisattva Buddha was teaching disentangling yourself from the illusions but do now Buddhists know the truth that this great Lord and Master had taught the world disattachment I don't believe that all of them know it as all Christians most of the Christians have lost the sense and the truth in Christianity so the Buddhists have lost most of them the real teaching and sense of Buddha because if you know the truth behind the teachings of both the Lord Buddha the enlightened one and Joshua the Christ the God man it's the same thing the same truth revealed a fellow Buddhist one day taught me oh pity you are not a Buddhist sir and you are a Christian I said who told you I am not a Buddhist he said are you a Buddhist I said definitely I am maybe better Buddhist than you are looking at but are you not a Christian of course I am a Christian but now I don't see any difference in the truth truth is not the monopoly of certain people coloring it according to their ideas so the seeker of the truth should see the truth as it is what is the truth God is love just under this light you can see clearer everything when the sun of love rises you can see everything nicely if there is darkness and you go with a candle in your hand colored candle you will see things in a different way in your own way so wisdom comes to a human being every human being if he or she wishes to see the truth by observation making reasonable use of the mind concentrating on the things one wants to study but freeing himself at that time from all illusions and attachments on things influencing him or influencing her that means taking away the personal egos what do I call this work the system of the seekers of the truth the science of sciences because the highest science is to know the self the expression of the self the local self and our place in that kind of selfhood and just clean it now somebody says shall we give up our so called personal self the egoism I said no annihilate its expression because in it to exist as egoism in a person as part of it has your self you are that and you are not what you are not take it away and live what you are now it's difficult to understand that before exercising separating the real self its nature from its expression tomorrow the lesson will be more on the use of the mind now we will make an exercise relax completely your material body relaxing it shows that you are a god and that material body of yours given to you feeling you are living in it is yours now make it yours the holy archangels creating this material body and everything most wisely in the material body will not object calling it yours but deserve to be the master of this material body feel that you are in the material body relaxing it completely absolute relaxation you are breathing now breathing deeply but comfortably you can select the rhythm of your breathing breathe deeply and the time you are breathing feel you are in the lungs but the same time you are feeling you are in the lungs you can feel you can be everywhere in your body the air and the oxygen is going only in the lungs in and out but something else you are feeling that is you are etheric double the whole body the time now you are breathing and the air is confined only in the lungs getting in and out you can feel the whole body be in your whole body in the fingers in the face in the feet everywhere feel now you are in the body and feel that that's your source this is the etheric double you are concentrated on the aesthetic or feeling giving ether it's not only the air and oxygen that matters but also the etheric vitality you are using subconsciously now you can use it consciously just feel in your body you are breathing oxygen etheric vitality and God life you are breathing etheric vitality and through the lungs but at the same time you breathe it with your whole etheric double feeling it you feel it this is the super substance of the mind uncolored now what I tell you is rather difficult that it needs much practice but I'll say that and feel it we are in God God is everywhere in us out of our bodies and in our bodies feel it I don't say him feel God as the highest intelligence to which you can attune yourself enjoying it's it's total wisdom it's almightiness it's total love does he understand and he feels what you are feeling now it's stupid to believe that the one who gave you the eyes to see is not seeing the one who gave you the ears to hear is not hearing the one who gave you that handful of matter you call brains to think with is not thinking you can talk to him he is talking to you just listen Joshua Emmanuel the Christ the God man spreading his hands out to the scenes was saying I am the Lord you are God in you you are God in you you are beingness and the local was saying I am the Lord you are God in you as you are the human being self just enjoy that human beingness self try to understand what is life what is you are soul in life and free yourself from the false impression that you are an isolated personality having a name of a man or a woman Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said you are God's offspring of the infinite father find your immortal everlasting self life those who believe in me and know me will taste no death but will live in eternity breathe deeply comfortably fill your heart and clean it to reflect love nothing except love love to all human beings 02 - Mind In The Worlds Of Existence Existing and living, we know the cross-material world. For us, it's only one-third of the surface of our planet. The rest is water. Very small indeed. At least for the orthodox science today, it became very small. So, this is a world of existence in which we can study phenomena of life. Billions and billions and billions. Start from the Amoeba, the world, everything are all phenomena of life. Having a cross-material body. What do we study? That all these phenomena of life obey to certain rules and laws. Therefore, there must be the lawyer and the one who is ruling these things. And what are these rules of the cross-material world? Nothing can exist in the cross-material world unless it has a form. And a cross-material body in that form. Which form? Billions and billions and billions and billions of forms. Do you see billions of phenomena of life all around us? We can study. In the mineral kingdom, the crystals, metals. In the vegetable kingdom, in the animal kingdom. There are so many, many things to study and reach to our conclusion that definitely behind every phenomena of life is a super-intelligence beyond our comprehension which is almighty keeping that and any of these phenomena of life in the circle of existence and possibility. Nothing can escape from that circle of possibilities. We can study also the probabilities, many probabilities in a definite circle of possibilities for every existing being. These are the laws of the cross-material world. Now, what the mystics can find also beyond this knowledge of the cross-material world entering, not consciously, but self-consciously in this cross-material world they will find there the same law. Phenomena of life. Of life continuing their life from the cross- material world there. Or even phenomena of life only in the psychical world. Again, they must have a form to exist. A form dressed up with the substance of that plane as the forms are material and the cross-material plane. Now, can you trace God there? More easily. Now, I have some just experience which I tell you later. Now, entering in the nautical world more light, it's full of light. There matter is emanating light. We are in the world of the light in the nautical world. There to exist also one should have a form. Different form for us human beings. No, exactly our human form and each one with his characteristics. Seeing George and John there, you will understand that it's there. Even if I have a sun on their face or something, you will see it there. All the characteristics are there. But you see now, that form more luminous. More lovely, more beautiful. There is nothing which is ugly in the nautical world. In the nautical, going there. There is a form there, but in different sense is the form there. Then you can see the soul- spirit form. What you call a spirit body, which is a body and it isn't a body also. Why it is and it isn't? Because to see a form in the lower world, in the gross material world, you will find it in its course of existence in time. Starts from the sperm also, growing, growing, growing, growing, growing. If you complete the circle of possibilities, then going on. So you see the human form in the gross material body continuously changing. But still the sum total of everything is you. You say, yes, if you have photos, you say how nice I was when I was 20 years old. Now I am grown up with wrinkles on my face, like that. Everything is in your circle of possibilities and existence. So it is how you see a human being in the gross material world. In the world of continuous change. Now in the psychical world, you go there in the psychical world. Usually those who go in the psychical world and you contact them, you see them younger. Because they want to look younger. And so the psychical substance of their form is more under the influence of what they like and of their thoughts. Conducting self- consciousness to people in the astral plane who have departed, you see them much younger and beautiful. And they prefer a certain age. And they can remain in that age for a long, long, longer time, but not forever. So what you call the course in time of the circle of existence there, changes completely, not in form, but in appearance. Because the form is there. In all its course. But you have the appearance which you like. The same in the nautical world. Provided you are permitted to have that. And who is not permitting us to have the appearance we want to have and we like? We are just in the way we are living. In your shell, if you are in a shell, it's not easy just to influence your appearance. You see an old man there, he's having his money. You can enter in his shell and see him in the age. It's an old man just counting his money. So there are conditions there which you need to study. And conditions in life, in the psychical world, are not the same as the conditions in life of the cross-material world. And the difficulty for those who are in the cross-material world is to accommodate themselves with the new conditions of life of the psychical plane. And they need training. And there are people who are training souls, personalities, souls going there to see things in a different way as they are and not in the way they used to see things on the cross-material plane. For example, I am one of these teachers to those departing from the material plane. To go from here with cross-material body, somewhere you will go step by step, step by step, walking. And order by bicycle, by car, by an aeroplane to move yourself on the cross-material world. Now, are there cars, railways, and all these things in the psychical world? In the psychical world, generally, no. But in the shell-hells of people, everything existing on the material world is there. You can see entering in their shell-hell or shell-paradise all these things which they carry from here as their impression and their knowledge. But you laugh, as you live in your own world. In your world, it's what you have understood, what you have taken from the cross-material. But in the psychical world, it's all light and beauty. But who can see it? There is light and beauty on our cross-material world certain hours of the day. Who is observing this beauty and this light and everything? Living all the time in their own thoughts and emotions and interests in life. So things are not changing immediately. But I am telling you, the psychical world is much, much better than the cross-material world. It is as if going out of a dungeon to the open country. Now, things there have longer life. Just as you have a nice flower, for how long that will last? How long? A few hours? Days? The maximum. And then? So, the law on the cross-material body, on the cross-material world, is continuous change and decay. In the psychical world, no. Things have longer, much longer life. I had an experience, which I am telling you my own. I was seven years of age. Being self-conscious in the psychical plane as I was in the cross-material plane. I had a friend there, a Dominican monk. He had shown me to a very nice place, there in the psychical world, a kind of monastery. A long, long, very nice hall. He said, it is your place if you come here to stay. You have the right. Just a stained glass there. Beautiful things. I have seen them in Europe, on churches. At that time I didn't see any of these things on the cross-material body. A nice, comfortable bed and a crucifix. And an altar. Because they know the crucifix there. And the altar. In the altar were very lovely Madonna lilies. Smelling. The sense of smelling, you have it there perfectly. You don't have it on the material plane. So nice. And I told him, look here, can I have just one of these and put it on the altar? I was seven years of age. Eight, maybe. Of course, with his thought, because everything is created by thought there. He presented me a nice vase. Emerald color vase. With water. Why he did it? Because these were the things I knew. From the cross- material world. I got one, they placed it there. Just in front of the crucifix. It is the rare, now fresh, yet. And the other day I told him, what stupidity, why did I have to cut it and put it there and not offer it to him being there. He said, oh, that was what you wanted. So things are not decaying in the psychical plane. The genetical plane. They endure longer time. Which means that the mind as thought is not creating and not sustaining things we like on the cross-material world as you can do them in the psychical and genetical world. But you have to live self-consciously there. But are people living on the cross-material world now living self-consciously? No. I am telling you, 80% of people living all over the world in the civilized countries and everywhere, they are not living self-consciously. They are living, yes, consciously, not self-consciously. They didn't reach, how do you say, self-realization to know what they are. Know what they are as what? Mary, church. No, that's not our real self. That's our time and place self in the cross-material body. As soul, spirit beings. Because in reality, our real self is not our appearance in the course, in our course, in time around the circle of possibilities of a human being and of course our own way to cover this circle of possibilities on the earth plane. What am I aiming at now? To understand who you are. You are not what you think you appear. A little boy, an infant, an adult, a middle-aged man, an old man. We are not all that. All that is our course in what we call in our circles of existence and possibilities. Then what we are? What is really our appearance? Now try to understand what I say now. In the noetic world, we are all that. To are able to be and feel all that and stick to what we like best. You are the circle of your possibilities. And you feel a great joy being everything of what you have existed. Not only in the cross-material world, also in the psychical and the noetical world. That is what you call perfect life. As a human being. You are human form, not in changing of appearance, but feeling everything in you. Everything is added to you, because you are in the kingdom of the heavens. That is why I said, it is a form and it isn't a form. The so-called spirit body. What are the characteristics of our spirit body? First of all, the spirit body is incorruptible. Everlasting. Just not that. It is incorruptible. How can we create it? We have it already in us, in all our bodies. We never created it. It existed. It is. And this is why the holy archangels take it as sustaining your body. Just to go through the circle of your possibilities. You say to me, did you ever come in contact with your spirit soul body? I am telling you yes. If I say no, I would be a liar. What do you feel there? Please. You feel one, at least with my most beloved one, Joshua Manuel de Christ. Not with God. And with God. But I don't want to leave him. I don't want to leave my human form. Not body. The body is something different. He had honored the human form. It is in him. We are all of us in him. Which means, can you be in any body, considering him your own self? Yes, I can. But it is difficult to explain what it is. It is what he was feeling as a human being. Saying, Father, they are me. I am they. How they are in me? Word of separateness, not knowing that. And why you have forsaken me in them? Since I am in them. There is just a mistake in the gospel. Joshua Manuel de Christ, I heard it myself, didn't say, where there are two or three, I am with them. He added something more. Where there are two or three in my name, my name means in my own nature, feeling who I am in them. He says, where there are two or three in my name, I am in them and with them. I am in them as spirit, soul beings. They are part of myself. And I am with them also as human beings around them. There are two different states, being in and with, which they confuse them, everything, those who translated the Bible. Where there are two or three in my name, in my nature, I am in them and with them as human beings. That means entering in what we call the oneness of the absolute infinite being. Now, we said much. I will answer to a question. Marriage between two people, a male and a female person, is marriage, don't call it marriage, is the union of two people, a male and a female. Sacred? Yes, it is. And binding? That depends. To what? Now, a male and a female person on the planet now can become, both of them, co-creators with the absolute infinite beingness in prolonging life, giving birth to new spirit, soul, to exist in the material world. It is the will of God. It is a different thing. So, what is the relation of these two people, man and a woman, on the planet and in the heavens? I said, it depends. On the cross-material body, it is the sexual intercourse, union, and the effect of it is just the childbirth, bringing children. And that's, I said, the will of God. Because they may do that, and nothing will come to it. That depends, I said, on the will of God. But in reality, seeing things, it is a sacred thing. Giving birth, prolonging the life from the other realms to the cross-material world. Now, from where it should start this relationship from the cross-material world with the sexual intercourse? This is what is the mistake. Of course, according to the law of God and to His mercy, this is the opportunity so that children may come to the world to be born into the world. But, what family do they create? If their union is not in higher planes, in the realms of love. So, maybe there are two persons, a male and a female, for years and years, lying on the same bed and still be very far to one from the other for years. That's not the sexual intercourse which unites a man to a woman. So, is their marriage sacred then? Now, we shall see from two different points. Of duty and habit, because why they are connected? And there is a debt which one owes to the other. Because God could not just make them meet each other. That is one case. And the other case is just to be according to the will of God. But, I said, the sexual intercourse is not joining two people, a male and a female, but the soul connection. So, this cannot last on the material plane more than a few years. Forever. No. So, it is attraction and repulsion. Attraction and repulsion. Attraction and repulsion. Till the time that there is the attraction that remains one. That means the one enters in the oneness of the other. They can never enter in the oneness of God unless the one is entering the oneness of his companion. Let us call it companion. So, so that a family to be blessed is not only just the priest just reciting things that binds to people that their hearts love. So, what is uniting two people is the love on the higher realms on the psychical and the noetical. No. Psychical and the noetical. Is it not the same thing? No. They may be united in the psychical world. Feeling the one loves the other be in union as two beings, male and female. That means loving each other but there will not be any understanding amongst them, between them and amongst the other people. So, it is not only to be united to human beings, a man and a woman, in the psychical plane but also in the noetical plane. There must be what we call understanding each other. You are living for the other and especially for the children because they complete now this circle according to the will of God of creation. They become co-creators with God. So, the union is not only in the cross-material plane it should be also in the psychical plane and in the noetical plane. This is the marriage which you find in the Gospels proposed by Joshua the Christ as a sacred union. And if Joshua Manuel declares that one should love any other human being as himself would have been exceptional with the fellow that he becomes co-creator with God. So, this should be studied seriously. The sacredness of the married life. But again, two husband and wife come in many incarnations together. As I have seen studying people all around me, I am telling you, yes. I have seen couples more than ten times united. Which is just making these two people united? The sexual intercourse on the material plane? Or they have done it with many others? Both of them. So, that does not bind. Then, which binds them and brings them together in many, many incarnations? The Hindus call it karma. The debts of one to the other. And God unites two people so that they will learn the great lesson of loving and understanding and cooperating. Now, are people united in this incarnation? Even from past incarnations in full attunement to each other? This is the thing they have to learn. Quarreling, shouting, living, complaining, living their life. Either being united to learn their lesson or if they go too far, it is a divorce and separation. One goes his way, the other is going his other way. So, this relationship of human beings, male and female, on the planet for years and years and centuries and centuries, is just as a school to learn your lessons of understanding, loving, uniting. Uniting. Uniting is not the carnal intercourse. Uniting is the one entering the oneness of the other. Now, do I approve this divorce? Sometimes it is advisable. If people go too far, one of them or both of them are coming to a place of beating each other, kicking each other, creating troubles and all that, making their children unhappy, it is better to be separated. Separated. But they were separated already. Just living this kind of life, they have never been really united. So, what is uniting? Two people. Two things. Loving and understanding. If you don't have these two things, you don't know the gross material world is prostitution for me, even if it is by the blessing of the Church. So, uniting between two people should be understanding and loving. If one is selfish and thinks the other is just to dominate him or dominate her, that doesn't matter. It is better that they should be separated. So, marriage, for me, is not the sexual intercourse between two people. But marriage, for me, is on the psychical world with their psychical bodies and in the nautical. Two husband and wife meet on the other side of the psychical plane. Now, I am telling you a law. Love is attraction. Indifference and hatred is repulsion. Those who do not live in the right way on the material plane, never mind that their husband and wife will not meet on the psychical plane or the nautical plane. But those who love each other are united. Now, we have beloved ones who have parted and went to the other side. Are we losing them? There is love? No. If they are not understanding, they are receiving this feeling of not being pleased with, it separates them. So, love is uniting. Indifference, hatred and quarrels is separating. Not only on the material plane, in the other planes also. So, what is the lesson of Iman? To learn to love. This is the greatest lesson which should be learned. To love not in the way people are loving. Because God Joseph Emmanuel Christ said to his disciples, he said, Love one another as I have loved you. Not as you think it is love. My love I give to you. Which means what? My love. A love just pure. Not egoistic. Not dominating. But giving. Whose love? He gave them in the Last Supper the greatest examples. Because I don't believe that they knew what he meant by my love I give to you. Till he showed them. Someone washing their feet. Wiping them and kissing them. All of them. What he said? If you love, you wash the feet of the other. Is that humiliation? No. It's love. So, which is the greatest enemy of a human being on the planet, on earth? The sum total of the demon element as created in his personality created in his subconsciousness. Never mind that this personal egoism presents itself sometimes as an angel of light. Egoism is almost a demon collective of all the elementals of evil in a human being. Unless a fellow annihilates in his consciousness see this unless a fellow annihilates in his consciousness, in his subconsciousness this elemental group elemental we call egoism he cannot wake up his self-consciousness. The soul spirit self. It's as simple as that. Now, what is the lesson a human being has to learn on the cross-material plane? First, that living a day every day, God is giving us as human beings a day to live. Giving us a day to live, God in the cross-material world. The Holy Archangels sustaining that material body and the other bodies to live in them, ourselves. With what right we make the life of the other people miserable? Is that not devilish? But don't we live also in a miserable way? What is the right, our right just to live in that way, in a devilish way? Living in a body the Holy Archangels are creating for me and sustaining it for me to live. What is the aim then of the Holy Archangels? Sustaining this body so that I will live in a stupid way, hating, not loving. Just think the greatest tolerance of the Archangels to us and their patience for us. So these are the lessons we have to learn. We have to initiate in our personality and in our, what we call subconsciousness this demon, collective demon we call personal egoism. And of course, the duty of every human being and of the seekers of Holy Truth is by introspection using the mind in a reasonable way using their divine nature of observation and studying see the reality. The reality in their emotions in their desires in their actions in generally their life as they call it, their own life. Otherwise they will live unhappy and in despair until they learn the great lesson. And now, something like I should just tell you. We, as long as we live in our cross-material body in our own way of living we see things that they mean nothing as just mountains to cross them. For the least things we create troubles, grief and unhappiness to us and to the others around us. That means living without thinking properly. What a seeker of the Truth should do never to value something beyond its value. Not undervalue it and not overvalue it. And how we understand the real value of things? Seeing things from above in the course of time and of the events and studying our life as you have lived it, see that things which really matter very much for us before a day, two, a month three months, six months, today mean nothing to us. Seeing things from a different point of view. And yet that time those things were torturing us. And we are torturing others. Thinking that it was something very, very serious. Now we see that that's not the case. It's everything different. And what we shall do? See, the things now that we think that they are of much importance in reality, they will mean nothing to us in the course of time. After some time in future this is the lesson we have to learn. Do we learn it very easily? I'm telling you we need many, many centuries to learn this lesson. Really a human being needs centuries to learn this lesson. I remember when I was a boy seven years old there was just in the house something that disturbed other people, our people just many, many, many things. I was in a corner sitting I was looking at them all like that. Complaining why and why so many whys like devils jumping and dancing all those whys and why and why and why. I was just looking like that. My father came to me and said, go to bed, it's late. We still have to talk. Talk, say what? What you are saying now and you are saying the whole day, father? Yes, yes, you have just half to do what? No, I'm just sitting here listening to you. He said, you are just a little child, go to bed. You are seven years old. I said, looking at him, I said, father, I was hearing all these things. For days now you are talking, the whole family and the others coming, saying all these things, the trouble and disturbance. Father, nothing matters much and most of the things or these things matter at all. They went to bed, said, come here, come on, repeat it to me, say that. Nothing matters much in life and most things do not matter at all. It's a waste of time. He got a pen, repeated, and he wrote in English because we were speaking in English language in our house, he wrote it down. He said, gentlemen, please, go now. No more talking about these things. He said, nothing matters much and most things do not matter at all. And he put it on a board with red letters and put it in his room. Now, this is the reality. Nothing matters much and most things do not matter at all, especially idle talk, lazy talk of others concerning us. Nothing matters. Tomorrow we'll speak. I will just answer some of the questions. How he must live a better life? How he must create better elementals? And how to give way to trouble? 2 Of course it is. In those worlds of existence, do exist mountains, colours, trees, seas, lakes, everything you can see on the cross-material world, and much, much, much more, which you don't have in the cross-material world. More colours. Better sounds. There are more real worlds than this cross-material world, because we are aware of the cross-material world only through the five senses. Sight, hearing, smelling, and feeling. But there you develop also different senses, just according to the world you will be living in. What corresponds to sight there? Seeing again, but how? Now, in the cross-material world, you may have damage in the eyes, and you become blind. Is that possible in the psychical world? Are there blind people in the psychical world? No! Sight there is perfect. Do you need the eyes to see? Now I speak of my own experiences, and the experiences of others living in the psychical world. Usually we are using the eyes, but in reality we can see everywhere without using the eyes. You can stand in the psychical world and see things behind you, under, above, here, there, by what I call expansion of the consciousness. So what is the means of seeing? The eyes, or the self-awareness and the consciousness? Something like that you can have in the material world, I call it telepathy. In a moment seeing things far away, with the hot eyes you are seeing them, with the cross-material eyes, just two little balls full of water. Is that what you call sight? No! So there is nobody as individuality, soul being, blind, in the so-called psychical world. In the neurotic world, how do you see things? Can you see things there, mountains, lakes, things? Yes, everything. But they are not as you see them in the cross-material world. Definitely they are worlds of forms, luminous forms. There you have also the sense of solid, liquid, gaseous, and all the other things, but these are feelings. But there is more light, the super-light. It is the mind as light. Now, it is difficult to explain to you how, but you gain such super-senses as expansion, and what you are using in the material world, attunement to. You can use all these powers in the cross-material world, and you have to develop them here to have them there. All are entering in these worlds, but as blind people, here in the cross-material world, cannot see the cross-material world around them, and the beauties of nature around them, so you are entering every night. Or you are even now in those worlds, but you are not aware of them. Unless you become able to receive those vibrations of those worlds. I am telling you, I speak from my own experiences. Those worlds are more real worlds than the cross-material world. There, you don't need the cross-material brains to think. And I am telling you, having difficult things to think about, I am getting out of my body, just to elaborate with them, and come back and impress them in my cross-material mind. Because I am telling you, the cross-material mind is just two lobes of matter. And it creates great difficulty to get what I call real thoughts. So, now, the seeker of the truth has to study seriously, by observation, using the mind. What is emotion? What is the relation of emotions, desires and feelings with forms? Because every elemental has its own form. The mercy of God is not to allow us to see the human-demon elementals we are creating. Because if we are not to feel frightened of what we are creating, at least we will feel ashamed. With the bad use we are making of the mind, transforming it into human-demons, is very bad, thoughtful. So, entering in these kingdoms, self-consciously, you have to develop this self-consciousness here from the cross-material world. This is what Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, who was teaching his disciples, all the time. And you have to cast away from you that weight which is keeping you down on Earth. Which are these heavy weights we have in us? Our desires, our emotions, our illusions. We have to take them away. Now, a seeker of the truth, in introspection, I said, he has the duty to check and see the quality and the nature of his subconsciousness, of his personality, of his desires, of his emotions, of his weaknesses. Of passions in his personality. After all, apart from being the duty of everybody to do that, it is for his interest. Because keeping in your subconsciousness all these wicked passions and things, you are poisoning your cross-material body. That's why you have now, in our world, so many illnesses. Appearing all the time, torturing the human being, torturing the human body. So it is for the interest of everybody to cast away from his personality many, many poisonous things that are injuring the cross-material body. So, now, I said, in introspection, it needs time, sincerity. By bringing forward, using your divine powers of recollection, remembering, what you call it, and seeing things in forms, you have just to study this ability of yours. Now, what happened some hours before? Going out. Just a quarter. You have seen things. And though you don't see them self-consciously, by observation, still, you get them. And, after hours, you may sit quietly. And you can see the whole scene. Seeing people. Going there. See the people with whom you came in clash, and all that. Study this ability of bringing forward, up to your consciousness, forms of persons and things which have happened. This is what gives you your divine nature. And you have to develop it. By observation. Seeing all that. Studying all that. You find yourself. Who am I? Who am I doing all that? And I can use now the mind as reasoning and exercise my divine powers of getting decisions. Deciding. So, it is for our benefit to start the introspection. I'm telling you, it is not an easy thing to do that. Because, all the time, your personality's egoism will appear to reason his wickedness. Because, I am telling you, the egoism of the personality is very, very wicked. And you have to admit that and realize that so that we shall transmute someday that egoism to a real ego. Shall we call that repentance? Now, I don't want to become a churchman. I would like, rather, to see things scientifically. I would say that in this world and in all the worlds are lost. And especially, what we call the law of cause and effect. And by using, reasoning, observing things, studying things, we'll be wandering at the great wisdom of the intelligences ruling the world. So, it is worse. Just practicing the introspection and what I would call a real meditation. Because you have meditations which lead nowhere. You have the meditations which lead just to the knowledge of what we are studying, what we are doing. So, now, I will not attempt to tell you about the splendors of this heavenly life. Because it is impossible. Even what I know with which words I will tell you. The only thing I will tell you is this. There are words of bliss and happiness. There are words where prevails the self-super- consciousness. As soul, ego-self. Manifesting its divine powers of expansion and entering in the oneness of the locus. Entering in the oneness of the locus means enjoying everything in the oneness of the locus. Because many have asked, yes, we are entering in the oneness of the locus. What is that? Entering in the oneness of the locus. Entering in the oneness of the locus means enjoying what is in the oneness of the locus. This is the great pleasure. And returning to the cross-material world, this is as if from a splendid, lovely, well-lighted place you enter in a dark underground of the same building which is the cross-material world. And let it be also a paradise. Because I find even the cross-material world a paradise. And it is. Now, something more I can say. The four-dimensional and the five-dimensional worlds coincide in certain sub-planes. But still they are different in certain other sub-planes. And by observation, I'm telling you, when you are self-conscious in this world, in the ethical and the psychical world, you are free to go anywhere, in any place, in any sub-plane, you wish to. But if you become the master of those worlds, because those who are in lower sub-planes, they cannot go to a higher plane or sub-plane, unless they cast away from them the weight that keeps them there. And this weight has certain qualities in their personality. So we have to clean our individuality from the rags of the personality. And how? The first thing you need is get rid of that egoistic tendency of always wishing, having and getting from others. And get in yourself the wish to give to others. Take away those dirty garments wrapped in your personality, which I call selfishness. Very heavy. Very heavy indeed weight to let you enter in the kingdom of the heavens. You have to throw it away. Selfishness has nothing to do with the self-loving attitude. After purifying the petty self of the present-day personality, transmuting it into your ego self. But now we shall see the self. What do you mean by self now? That's a very great problem to study. Because when I tell you what does it mean self and yourself? Of course Maria would say, Me? Dressed with all the rags of the impressions of Maria concerning life. That's not the self. It is a kind of self, but not the self. So, of course, words cannot tell you great truths, relative truths either. But you can find them out in introspection and in self-criticizing. Not condemning the self. Criticizing and making corrections. Because there is a danger your personality's egoism to present itself as a masochist. You must be free of that. Free of any judgment. And just checking doesn't mean judging. I came to judge no one. I came to save the human being, said Joshua. You should never judge even yourself. But by observation, see, criticize. Criticizing and not judging. And coming to conclusions. So, start practicing the introspection and you will find your way. Because the time you start the introspection, the guardian archangel, which is in you and near you and around you, I mean your personality, will just advise you. But he will never do so unless you ask him to. Also the holy archangels. When you mean knowing things and improving your time and place self, they are ready to embrace you, enlighten you, inspire you at the beginning, and then appear to you. You will see them. Do they have form? The archangels. The Michaels, the Capulets, and the Raphaels are pleased to get a human form and appear with a human form, though they can get any form. And especially they like the flame. The Raphaels, a violet flame. The Michaels, a red flame. The Capulets, a bluish flame. And other kinds of flame. What is the pleasure in the flame? When you advance, they will teach you. So one of the things you will gain by introspection and sincere searching is at first by inspiration to get the help of your guardian archangel and the holy archangels of the elements, then they will appear to you, love you, and teach you. And I'm telling you, you feel pleased, and then the first thing they teach you is what is real love. So, God is love. They are love. You become love. You are love, but you have to become and show you are love. Yes. Now, relax completely. Breathe deeply, but with comfort. Breathe deeply with comfort. Feel the air and the vitality entering in your lungs. See your heart radiating a rosy light all around you. Your chest becomes a radiant sun of rosy light. Strong light. Now, with your mind, bring in front of you a fellow, a man or a woman with whom you have certain differences. See that light from your heart coloring his face with the red light emanating from your heart and see that person smiling. Forget the differences, no matter what they are. Love those who call themselves your enemies. We don't have enemies. We have loving brothers and sisters only. See that person in front of you that there are no differences amongst you. Trust that fellow. Forgive him. That's too egoistic. Forget it. To forgive you, if you feel you have done something wrong to him, ask God to forgive you. Send only love and good wishes. That fellow should be blessed by God. See that in your personality there is not something like hatred, even complaint, because near the roots of the tree of hatred is coiled the serpent of complaint. You shouldn't have any complaint. And forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation. Lead us not means do not allow us to enter in temptation. 2 Now we see, the Archangels using the mind's super substance, emanating from them, I don't think we have any other word, in creating the universes and everything and all the phenomena of life, most wisely. We see now the human being, a petty time and place, personality, wrapped, I said, with the veils of darkness, of their own human demons, their elementals. You said, what are the elementals? No, the divine, absolute infinite beingness, in its mercy, so that we live, and I live, I mean the petty time and place personality to live, because we will live, always, as gods, as spirits, soul, self, so that the present day personality should live by the mercy of God. God is giving, say, a certain amount of this mind's super substance every day, every moment. The mind we are receiving every moment amounts in 24 hours to a certain quantity, not more. Say, if we call that this quantity, we get every 24 hours, it's 100 units. We need 40 units, or the Holy Archangels use these 40 units in creating and sustaining our bodies. We need another, say, 40 units, as a means to live, because everything we do, thinking, moving, going here and there, as a car needs the essence and the benzene, so we need that mind vitality now, mind vitality, so that we manifest ourselves in the way we are living. Another 20% is left to us to do what we want to do with it. That's the mercy of God to the present day time and place human being, as we are, all around us, they are. Now, how is a human being living now in our societies, in Europe and everywhere, using the 40% for his needs to live his own life, and leaving the 40% to the Holy Archangels, or exhausting everything, in stupid ways, of thinking and of living? Of living, how do I mean exhausting this mind vitality in living? How they are living? First of all, keeping in themselves the devils devouring and destroying this vitality, which are the human demons in them, the elementals. They want food to live, and they want this energy to live, and they have them. I put it more plainly. How? By keeping yourself hatred against people, despising people, having complaints against people. So this means that these elementals in yourself, to keep on living, keeping you hating, being jealous and doing what you are doing, and searching for an opportunity to take revenge of him or that or that, is exhausting this mind vitality. And, in the way you are living, if circumstances are such that you express more of these, while, not to say wicked behavior, in getting angry, furious, shouting, and all that, you destroy the whole amount of this mind, super-substantive substance in yourself. What is the result? Now, you see a fellow who is very angry, shouting, raging, you see him immediately becoming red, because it is the circulation of blood, and then after that, exhausted. After a seizure of anger, the man is feeling exhausted, yellowish. Now, observing this, it proves just this truth. You are burning down that etheric and mind vitality, which you need to live and express properly yourself. Now, is there any punishment to those transgressing the laws of nature, from God or from any archangels? No. The holy archangels, when you make damages, even in the body, by anger and everything, they do it just to make reparations. They are loving. Who is punishing? Is anyone punishing a man? Yes. Himself. His behavior. So, by our behavior, we get the reward due to us, according to that behavior. So, we must know that all these things we have in us, which are the causes of illnesses, even of cancers and everything, we are responsible for that. Because the holy archangels all the time try to remedy the illnesses and these conditions. And we don't cooperate with the holy archangels in us. So, if one is ill, it is his or her own fault. Now, or karma, maybe also karma. But, even so, why should not, being under the burden of these circumstances, not come to reason, and by observation and right thinking, to find the cause of the illness and to remedy the condition? The Mother of the Christ was teaching all that. Not only to His disciples, healers, and to His companions, but even to the whole world. And, that illnesses is the cause of our transgressions, is proved by what Joshua Emmanuel the Christ was doing. Before healing a fellow, what was he doing to him, saying to him, or to her? Your sins are forgiven. Because unless the sins, the transgressions, are forgiven, no healing is possible to take place. Unless a man repents, changes his mind, he shouldn't expect miracles. Because we have that in our mind. That's why in our work, in healing, we promise nothing, yet we disclose nothing. Because the patient should cooperate. And, of course, we are not Joshua Emmanuel the Christ to have the authority to forgive sins, at least to the extent he was doing it. So, but we can just teach the people around us, what are the things, as they are, to make them understand, to use properly their mind as right thinking, to see things and change. Now, the church, knowing all these things, the first fathers, have taught what we call repentance. Repentance, why? Because unless you repent, you don't have the necessary change for the recovery. But repentance, in the sight of the church, scientifically, how we call that kind of repentance? Because all people do not like just this religious terminology. Do we have other words to be accepted by scientists? Something corresponding with what we call repentance that the church is suggesting? Yes, self-analysis. In repentance, you study things, you understand what is what, and you have a change. What are you doing in self-analysis? Is it not the same process? Is it not the same thing? So let us call it then self-analysis. And what a confessor is doing to help people, a good psychotherapist can do, by what we call making a self-analysis of the fellows. And teach them the right way of thinking, of living. So now, science and religion are giving the hands. Because even what we call repentance is scientific. It is a necessity to the personality to achieve its purposes. In the same way as a psychiatrist will do. If one is a good psychiatrist, if one is a good confessor. Because unfortunately, we don't have good confessors and psychotherapists now. So to be a good psychotherapist should be a scientist. And a good confessor is also a scientist. Because they have to deal with the soul personality. Soul personality, what does it mean? There can never be a personality, a man or a woman, expressing a self as a personality unless the parts of this personality is the soul. And in the time of Joshua, they were dividing this thing into two states. The soul which is sinning will die, that means will change. So, we must know that in every human being, in his time and place present, ego-self as a personality, wrapped with the veils of darkness, and ruled by the demon elementals, human elementals, the parts of life in it is the soul. And the aim is not that that part which we call wicked or evil, to die or to destroy it, but to transmute it into its own nature. Because it's not understood what we call death or annihilation. So, a human being, man or a woman, even being most wicked, in it rests the soul, shall we call it essence, in it. And this has to purify, sooner or later, the whole personality of a man. So Joshua said, the mortal will become immortal, because its nature is immortality, and the changing will become permanent. These are the meanings of the sayings of our Lord, Jesus Christ. Now, conclusion. As the holy archangels are using the mind vitality, transmuting it into mind etheric energy, and even matter, to build our bodies, to manifest and express their total wisdom and their almightyness, to us, to study it, to live in it, live in a material world, nobody can doubt the total wisdom is not ruling the world. So we should understand and find our place in what we call life, because we are the life, our spirit, soul, egos. And just see and study our duality in the world of existence. Now, instead of just obeying to the time and place, human demon presenting itself as our highness, as an angel of light, because nobody admits that he is not good, never mind that he must be worse than beasts, yet we must get the real control finding our self, who is our self, who can use the mind vitality, and who is misusing the mind vitality. First we must understand what is the mind vitality, and using it as thought, as thinking, as emotions, as desires. And then study what we are doing with this mind vitality. What are we doing? Slaves, now the time and place, personality of course, not ego, self. Slaves of desires and uncontrolled emotions, just creating in our subconsciousness that part of our personality, that dirty and bad smelling muddy pool, which you call weaknesses, passions, hatreds, enmity, which is separating us from the oneness of the absolute infinite beingness. So, seriously now, we have just to separate ourselves from the shadow, which is not our self. And I said, I give much, much importance to what you call introspection, looking within, and the self-analysis, and that's what Emmanuel said, entering in the kingdom of the heavens, which is in us, in our spiritual ego-self. There are no excuses, because saints, enlightened ones, wise ones, Buddha, Confucius, many, many others, have shown the truth, at least partly, the relative truth, and that God directly has been humanized to a human being, not coming out of the wholeness of the oneness of God, testifying and proving the truth. What's the excuse for us? Everything is given to us, to live on the cross-material world. Really, by observation, seeing around you the nature as it is, it's a paradise. And we made it a hell, or rather, we have created and built in us, and around us, our shell-hell. Everything is nice, and everything is created, has been created, and will be created, according to the total wisdom of God. So, we have just to acknowledge this great truth, by observation and right thinking, and bless ourselves, even as a time and place petty personality, but reasoning now, becoming a reasonable entity, and not stupid, not wasting and making bad use of the divine gifts given to us, which is the mind, the essence of thinking, of thoughts, and of emotions. Checking, observing, understanding, and then later, deciding, and being able to control these situations, is the great gain. I am I, a son of God, and of God. You separate yourself now from the time and place petty, personality, with a ruling demon, human demon, which is the personality, egoism. Unless you crucify the egoism of your personality, I'll use the words of Joshua Manuel de Christ, the most beloved one, unless you shorten your cross, and follow him, follow him with the cross, why? To be crucified. Unless you crucify the time and place, evil, egoism, don't expect your own self to be resurrected, your real soul. This is the first crucifixion, most necessary. In our simple life, it is just above the emotional, towards the heart, the first cross, you see. So I'll repeat the words of the most beloved one. He who wants to follow me, let him shorten his cross, and follow. There is great meaning in these things. So, what's the lesson today? Not make bad use, misuse, of the divine, mind vitality, as energy, and as anything else in the material world, but making good use of the mind, so that we'll find who we are, and what we are. 2 - God, Archangels & Human Beings So, in our bodies, in our material body, in our psychical body, in our mental body, and in the intellectuals of these bodies, we can meet our Michael, our Gabriel, our Raphael, since we have the habit of possessiveness, and what is in us we call ours. What I say rather, we belong to them, not they to us. Never mind. Let us be human and say, our Michael, our Gabriel, our Raphael. This will not displease them, don't worry. They will like it. So, constantly under the orders of the Holy Spirit, of course, infinite beingness as the Holy Spirit, and as the Logos, the Holy Archangels, are working and building our material body, the etheric double, our psychical body, the etheric double, our mental body, and the etheric double. Building to keep it in good health. So, it's natural to have good health. To be ill is unnatural. So, using creatively the formless super substance of mind, in building up our bodies. But now, no constructor will start building, just a construction, a building, unless he is given a plan from the architect. So, a plan has to be prepared by the architect. According to the plan, the constructor, the foreman, and the workers will build the construction. Now, the Masons are right in calling the infinite beingness, the Chief Mason. They call him Mas, which means the greatest architect of the universes. Omega's Architect of Zimbabwe. So, there should be a plan. But, what is the plan given to the Holy Archangels for building and working and keeping working? The idea of man. The heavenly man. So, all of us are sons or daughters of man. The heavenly man. That's the plan for humanity. The Holy Archangels are working with. So, we said that in each human being, in his material body, in his psychical body, and in his mental body, there is a Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, a Uriel, and also a Shaman for the skeleton. They build, they said, the bodies. The material body, the etheric double. The psychical body, the etheric double. The mind body, the mental body, the etheric double. They are the workers. Our brothers, never getting tired, loving us. Working in our bodies. But now we spoke about the present-day personality. Who is building the present-day personality? The Archangels. No, the Locos. That's why we say we are Locoic. The Locos is building the present-day personality. But Shaman interferes as the Devil, as the Church is calling it. So that we have the conflict. So, we have the present-day personality. A different entity from the bodies. Yet using the bodies. The present-day personality lives in the material body by grace and not by authority. Because the present-day personality knows nothing and is doing nothing for the material body, besides getting ready-made food to eat and wash it. What can you do for your material bodies? Nothing. But now, as regards the psychical body, it is around that that the present-day personality is built up. The emotions, the desires, the intentions. Now we see a mechanism. Of what we call the mind as sub-consciousness. It was the last one I gave you this morning. From that very moment, the sub-consciousness gets the dual function. Under the orders of the Holy Spirit and the Archangels is beating the bodies. But the other side is what it creates the consciousness. And then the consciousness is the surface. And the sub-consciousness, the depths. So we say that the consciousness and the sub- consciousness are one. Yes. The same way the ocean has a surface. The surface is the consciousness. The whole ocean is the sub-consciousness. So, we start now as an entity, separate entity, living our own lives. Now we have male and female. The Holy Archangels are doing that, obeying certain other orders. But now I have an entity we call the present-day personality. Extended to the permanent personality, which must hold the reality. So that the present-day personality, in that illusion we call space and time, will not be lost. So we have that constant, steady path, which we call our permanent personality. Which is a line with two ends. Now, if you have a big line with two ends, and you have a point in between the two ends, that I mean in the middle part of the line. From the middle part of the line to the outer point, which is the ego-self, or the soul-self, is bright light. But from the center of the line to the other side we have all kinds of colors. We may call them dirty. That's the present-day personality. Now, from that point to the other side, which is not the clean one, we separate the line in three parts. One is the physical body, the other is the psychical body, and the other is the mind-mental body. So we have a line divided in four parts. Half of it is the three parts, the physical body, the psychical body, the mind-mental body, and the other part, brilliant, always, never getting dirty, is our permanent personality, or our ego-soul personality. What is the reincarnation, and who is reincarnated? The withdrawal, gradually in time, of the, say, the colored part of the line, first withdrawing only to the psychological plane, and then to the mental plane, and then to the center of it, is the present-day personality. The expanding again, recreating those three states, is the new incarnation. But what is the relation between the one incarnation and the other incarnation, who both are in the illusion of time? No relation. That's our difference from what we believe as reincarnation, and what the others, the Hindus, or even some English people, are saying reincarnation. So the one reincarnating is our ego-permanent personality, or soul personality, which brings the sum total of the experiences of an incarnation, to give them, not as memories of events, but as lessons which have been learned to the new personality. This is the only relation we have with our own personality. And no personality of a man can remember a previous incarnation unless its consciousness extends from the temporary to her eternal inner self, the ego-self consciousness, which knows everything, lives in everything. So, of course, this is something the masters are not ready now, either to reveal or to teach how to do it, before we purify and clean our, what we call, present-day personality. Are there dangers for that? Yes. Instead of advancing, going backwards. That's why the Divine Mercy of the Lord has withdrawn the memory of past incarnations to the new incarnation, to give it time to advance, because there is also something common with past incarnations. The new incarnation has the sum total of the lessons learned, without remembering events. Because remembering events, it may drive her back. Now, we have children born, some of them geniuses. Others? They are not. They have a talent. What's a talent? Experience gained from previous incarnations, but not necessary for them to remember events. Maybe painful events, but have only the experiences of the lessons gained. So, a searcher after truth, studying the present-day personality, his present-day personality, and in expression of others around him, not as a present-day personality studying, but as an ego-self personality, can convey to his present-day personality the wisdom. You tell me now, are you dual yourself? Say yes. I am a name, a way of feeling, thinking, and I am I. I am dual. I am Stelios, a main person. But I am I, who can control Stelios, and his emotions, and his thoughts. Yet I am one. I am a line with two points. Everyone is dual. Even Christ, the Lord, the Lord was dual. I and the Father are one. So, the duality is alone. I don't know if that duality is also amongst the Archangels created, but I will study it. Of course, I don't have time. The pain around us is so strong that we don't have time to study things, but to give help as brethren of mercy. But yet again, why? Why? The heavenly man has a plan to be worked out by the Holy Archangels, our brethren. Create a man in duality. Two lobes of brain, two eyes, two nostrils, two ears, two lungs. Even the heart has four chambers. Two and two. Then we have two other organs. The liver and the spleen. For a man, two bones. For the woman, two ovaries. Why two? Two feet, two hands. Why? Of course, I say I don't have time to study that. Getting the wisdom of the Architects, that means my brethren, the Holy Archangels. Let it be in the future. But then, are you in touch with the Archangels? Or affiliated with the Archangels? The Michaels, the Caprils, the Raphaels, the Urials? Yes. Yes, if you are affiliated with your Michaels, the Caprils, the Raphaels, you are with all. Because we said that the Archangels are systems. And you are all alone. They are not just like the human beings in the world of separateness. This is our difference from our brothers, the Archangels. Are the Archangels feeling sorry? Or feeling the joy? Yes, they are feeling it. Because they are intelligences. They are men that they have the super-consciousness. And one who has gained his super-consciousness can come in touch with them and understand them. Because they are behaving, creating super-consciousness. It is rather difficult to explain. But they feel joy. What Christ says, joy is in your angels in heaven, for everyone returning. Returning means what? Finding the truth in Him. So, the Archangels feel grief and joy. When we are doing wrong things, do they feel sorry? Especially our guardian angels, the Metatronios? Yes, but their sorrow is different from our sorrow. And their joy is different from our joy. Very different. On many occasions, I try to attune myself with them to understand what is their joy. I have succeeded to a limited extent to understand it. Why? Because my human brains were not able or incapable of receiving those joy vibrations of our Archangels. Sometimes, I would develop them to the extent that they would not be buried by full attunement with them. Maybe I will do it. Now, our contact, myself and them, are not through the material planes. Because there is a danger of being buried. To attune myself with them, I must get out of my material body, out of my psychical body, and out of my mental body. Remain, I am I, and then it is possible to attune myself with any of any order of Archangels. I have done it on many occasions. It was their desire, their wish. When I am amongst them and say, how do I look now? In what I call the fire element. One of them, with the Michaels, a McCree. With the Caprells, a Caprell. With the Uriels, a Uriel. With the Raphaels, a Raphael. Of course, those who will be very advanced and will make the exercises for the symbol of life, they will be taught by me the way how to attune themselves with their brethren, the Archangels, in them and outside them. So, can a Michael attune himself with a Caprell? No. Can a Raphael attune himself with a Michael? I think no. So, we are privileged to have, through our consciousness, then the super-consciousness, what I say, attunement, and then attunement. These are great, great words, which very few understand their meanings. What we call attunement and attunement. These are the roads leading us to our equal spirit self, who is God. Then you realize who you are. When one, as Jesus Christ said, returns to that state of conception, they feel great joy. Such a great joy that really we cannot understand it as human beings. Our joy is childish joy. Their joy is the joy of the Philippine-ness of our Father in Heaven. But now again, in the world of separateness, there is grief or sorrow. Is there grief in the higher realms, beyond the mind? When I say beyond the mind, I mean beyond the mind in forms. No. Happily, there is not grief. But grief is the characteristic of the world of separateness. And as long as the archangels enter in a way, mysterious way, they cannot understand. In our world, as cooperators for the creation, they feel sorrow. But that sorrow, their sorrow, is not our sorrow. It is very different. Maybe it is what gives us distinction of consciousness, giving us the lessons which we have to learn. Even Christ, who is God himself, Son of God, who is the master of everything, of the material plane, transforming energy into matter, into bread and fish and feeding so many thousands, who is the master of everything, the material, of the psychical and the mental sides of his existence, definitely very different to ours. But what did he say? Anima mea jusque ad mortem. Anima mea, as long as he was feeling pain, a soul, he was feeling sorrow. So, sorrow touches even our permanent personality. It is touching us as a soul, equal self. But beyond that, there is no grief. There is no sorrow. What is there? Tranquility at first. Peace. Silence. And then? What is after? Bliss. What is bliss? Pleasure. What is there? What is just? Says the reverend Father for that. Beatitude. That is beatitude. Mercariotis. You have those. Even you have them in Latin. But I don't know if the English people have such words. What do they mean? They say bliss, and of course with the word bliss, they think they finish. So, is that beatitude? We call it? Yes, beatitude. Salud. Yes, that's it in German. Please. Beatitude. So, I have spoken about all the brothers, the archangels. Each one of you in your material body, in your psychological body, in your mind body, have one Michael, one Gabriel, one Raphael, one Shaman, and one Uriel, and other servants working for you. Building up your bodies. For you as a present day personality and as an ego, soul personality, living in the material body. So the material body, as the church says, is the temple of God. And we are living in these bodies by grace and not by authority. Because we do nothing for the bodies. No. Do we give thanks to our brothers for their valuable work in keeping our bodies in good health? Who is giving them thanks? We should give them thanks. Now, what's a prayer? Because people do not know how to pray. What's a prayer? Just repeating words without meaning. Anytime we are just praying mechanically, thinking about something else. I had a friend who was just saying the prayers. And then he said, can I say that? He said, I don't know. He said, say it again. So what's a prayer? Concentrating our self to the higher meanings. Thanksgiving. Giving thanks to the Archangels, to the Holy Spirit, to the Absolute Being in us. Thanks at the beginning, love following the thanks. Ask, shall we ask for that or that? Jesus Christ permitted us, said, ask and it will be given to you. But he said that to the Jews. To the stiff, naked Jews. What about the Christians, should we ask? He said, your father knows what you are in need of and he will provide you. Yet he gave us the Sunday prayer, give us this day our daily bread. As if without that, he will give us our daily bread. I think, the researchers of the truth, yes, they may repeat the Lord's Prayer. You say that in German, give us our daily bread. Yes, they may. Because it is just to repeat it. But in reality we should give thanks only. And glorification. Never mind, we say that for the others, not for us. We can just resolve it this way. So, I think everyone should give thanks to the intelligences. We say, for the archangels. Now, are the archangels thinking? Since they are losing mind, of course they are thinking. But how they are thinking, the way we are thinking? They are thinking creatively. Their thought creates. The human beings have that creative thought. They have abused that, made very bad use of it. Even fighting, using the elements. The fire and all that. And so the absolute being has decided to withdraw from the human race. He created thinking. That means, thought to create. Shall we regain it again? Yes. The psychotherapists partly regain it. When they become masters of matter. And by visualization, and their will. And attunement to the intelligences. Can make those phenomena, people call miracles. But I said again and repeat, there are no miracles. Everything that takes place in nature, is a phenomenon. It's only one miracle. Life, living, is a miracle. So, do the archangels have a language of their own? What Saint Paul says? Because I am sure Saint Paul was in conscious communication with the archangels. What does he say? If I talk all the languages of men and of the angels, and I don't have love, I am nothing. I am just like an instrument causing noise. Do the archangels have a language of their own? I tell you, yes. Different? The Michael's and the Gabriel's and the Raphael's are talking different languages? Yes. But, don't talk. You will put me in a question now. Do you know the language of the archangels? I tell you, yes. I do. But, is the language of the archangels sounds and words? No. It's reflection of light and shades, making you understand what they want to make you understand. Now, how will you understand it? Human beings cannot understand others unless they know their language. But when you advance to the mental plane, and you read the thoughts of men, when they are thinking in English, you are feeling them and you are hearing them speaking Greek, on your language. Which means the vibrations create that familiar thing in you to make you hear in your own language. So, apart from the sounds and the words, are the meanings and the vibrations. And in mental reading, you translate the vibrations. So, the languages of the archangels are vibrations of love and understanding. Any archangel can know the language of any other archangel of any other order. Though, they have different shades. What are these shades for? Beauty. They give you their own beauty. And there is a different beauty of expression of the Raphaels from the expression of the Michaels and the Caprils. But I cannot explain more. Yet, I tell you, I can understand it. And the language of the archangels is so sweet. You know that those who play music, and who know music, can attune themselves more easily to the language of the archangels. Because they can hear divine symphonies with meaning. So, it is rather music. They talk. Maybe you will hear chord recording music or the spheres. It is the talking of the archangels between them. So, it is things that it is very difficult to explain. And I wish all of you some day to reach that point of hearing it. That doesn't mean what we call clarity. It is something still higher and higher beyond what we call ecstasy. You go to the realm of the super-consciousness. Attunement and atonement. Any questions? One thing I didn't quite understand. Why was the plan to create man in duality? I wish I knew it. But as I said, I may find out. But we don't have time for that. I just thought you omitted it saying it. Yes, really, this is my question. This is my question. But do we have time for that? As long as there is so much pain all around us, we do have to serve. Could we assume that without duality there wouldn't be any experience? I don't have come to conclusions without being 100% sure. Because even in telling something, even now I have been misunderstood because they say sometimes you say different things, they say you say different things. And they think they are saying mistakes. There are no mistakes. Because there are not such as mistakes to be corrected, but truth to be revealed. More of them, and more of them. Good. I don't know. This law of duality, I am studying it now, I think what I call the dialogue in you between your present personality and your subconscious. And then we come to another point. Is that dual dialogue in you, yourself as present personality with your subconsciousness, which is something among, between you and your permanent personality. No, it's both. So you must be in a state to separate one case from the other case. So it's not easy just to come to conclusions without just being 100% sure. Because these are very very difficult things, especially getting to conclusions in the world of illusion. But it doesn't mean that we should just not trust our mind in learning. So slowly we will reach the truth. Yes. I wish I knew. Did you mention the color of Samuel? The color of? Samuel? Samuel? Yes, I will tell you. Samuel is imitating infinite beingness color. Infinite beingness color. As locusts and as Holy Spirit have the color yellow. You see? Samuel has a kind of yellow which is like mustard yellow. Now, just compare that trousers with that color yellow. There is a relation, isn't it? But it's not the color yellow which is light. Now, of course it is different from the red, black, red color of Michael or the violet color of Raphael or all of the blues of the blues color of Gabriel. There is a relation. The earth, a rock is yellowish. There are yellow rocks, aren't there? Not color yellow? Yellow? Sorry, yellow. And what he does? He tries to imitate in his work the locust color. What's the locust color? And the Holy Spirit color? White. Snow white. The first expression. The symbol of life. And it is above that. That's why your tongues have the white color. That was for my mystery until I was in touch with him and I saw his work. Then I understood that he imitated like an ape the work of the locust. That's why many Hindus are calling Samuel like the ape just imitated. Just a monkey. Just imitated. Does Samuel have intelligence? A just intelligent highly intelligent Michael. A super consciousness. Highly intelligent Raphael. Highly intelligent Gabriel. Highly intelligent Julius. I have never seen an intelligent Samuel. But I see a cunning Samuel. He has a kind of big cunning. Cleverness. That's why he just catches sometimes our subconsciousness. He is playing tricks to us. That's why we must get rid of him. He is the builder of our records. He doesn't like to kill our records. He is the Minotaur in the maze according to the Greek mythology. The Christian religion is calling him the devil. But is he the devil? Is he evil? Is a policeman evil because he is catching the thieves? He is working in the divine plan. That's it. And he maybe is the lord of the world of separateness. He has his role in the creation. Of course we cannot say publicly much. And now start praising him. The reverend father would not like it. Anyhow. He is playing his part in the creation. And there is something else. There is no evil which is not giving a most precious lesson. And the ancient Greeks said which means there is nothing evil which is not giving the lesson for good. So it is in its place also. It is needed. And of course sometimes people are telling me why did you not teach me or tell us? And we made so many mistakes. I said if I tell you you will not learn it. Maybe you will oppose me. By doing mistakes now you learn. It means that you get direct knowledge by your mistakes. Am I right or wrong? Because sometimes I have just this question. Why you didn't tell us? Why should I? So if you tell us we would not do that mistake. You did that mistake. Now you know it was a mistake. Excuse me? What? It is the human nature to listen not object. Somebody complained to me and he said why did you not advise Makarios? Seriously what Makarios would listen to me? I loved him and that was all. And he loved me and that was all. Advising what? On one occasion of course I was upset. I was upset him he did something which they resisted. And the bishop now to be to him. And then I repented. Bitterly I repented. Because I told him you are the cause of all evil in Cyprus. Why you excommunicated I said the bishops? Why you made them your enemies? And true to that I said our churches are in the hands I said now of the Muslims and you are responsible for that. But of course he heard that the bishop now talking oh he should not say that he said no he is divorced from the church he said but really I should not say that. 2 - Gods in Exile One says, since we cannot see them, what can we do? They are not visible to our material eyes. We cannot see those elementals. How can we fight with them? Fight! That means strengthening them. That is something one should never try, to fight with these elementals. Because sooner or later, he will be defeated. Yes. One can just ignore them, forget them, convince himself or herself that these things are not interesting to them, and then that is uninteresting. But until then, one says, we don't see them. How should we know them? Yes. You are lucky you don't see them. Because if people see the elementals they create, in terms of an anger, a feat of anger, or being jealous, or hating people, they will be frightened themselves. Such hideous forms they take these elementals, just attaching themselves on the auras of those fellows, absorbing their etheric vitality, so that they will leave. Maybe it is the mercy of God that makes human beings not able to see the elementals he or she are creating. But how can you work with them? Yes. By what I call introspection, looking within, boldly entering into that part of your personality, which is the material body, the etheric double, and the novel, the psychical body, everywhere in the psychical body, in the analytical body. Just concentrate in this part of your so-called subconscious mind, and by introspection, and looking within, just check the quality there. The quality of your desires, of your emotions, of your intentions. This is what I call introspection. And this is the duty, not of the seekers of the truth, of every human being who wants just to get rid of all the miseries in life. So studying the desires, whether fulfilled or not, the emotions, what he feels, and their quality. You can't say that all emotions are evil. But when they have in it the emotions, the sense of possessiveness, dominating, influencing, they are evil. Whether this is in a human being, as a husband, or as a wife, one should boldly enter in this subconsciousness, and check the nature of desires and feelings. And how that individual was using the thought in bringing those feelings and those desires into an effect. That's a difficult work, indeed. Quite a difficult work. Because at that time, your egoism would present itself, just a reason in itself. Then you feel sure that you are that egoism, that present personality, yet you are the one who is checking now, studying circumstances. Just study that thing. Who, what am I now? Am I the egoism of the personality? I had the mistake all the time to think that that was myself, just deluding me. But now, I start just checking, trying to know. And I can know the quality of the desires and all those emotions, just checking all the time. Checking whom? Of course, the egoism. But the egoism likes it. And you also, who are not the egoism. So that is the most important time to know the difference. Between the thinker who can take decisions and the egoism fascinated by the desires and the emotions, deceiving us that it is ourself. It is not difficult just to find these differences. And then, what happens? You will find out that this egoism of yours, of your personality, being a man or a woman, is sometimes very, very cunning. A real devil. You should be just very careful. You are not me. I thought I was you. But now, I am not you. Now, by starting just checking the desires, the emotions, and the thoughts, how the thoughts are going to serve those desires, he can get his conclusions. No. Then, that fellow, even as personal self, because we said, God, ourself, is in the personalities, will feel being the master of circumstances and his personality. To reach to that stage, it is important to neglect and dis-energize the personal egoism. But one can do it. And must do it. Because there is no other way to get out of the illusions, of the agony, and of all those evil things in daily life. This is the way. There is no other way. The way of introspection and right thinking. And then, getting decisions to cause the changes. And find the right way to do that. Because, I said, fighting the elementals, you will definitely sooner or later be defeated. By disentangling the personality now, self as a thinker, from the influence of those things around. By convincing yourself that you don't care anymore about that or that. And then, you dis-energize those elementals. Influencing you. Torturing you all the time. To let them go in what we call the cosmic memory, the cosmic consciousness. To sleep there until somebody vibrating to the same rate of vibrations, sequence of vibrations, will throw one of them, revitalize it, and make it part of his personality. So, you have to work hard and sincerely with ourselves. In introspection. Working in understanding the nature of the desires. Of the emotions. All the emotions. Checking our behavior. Entering our subconsciousness to check our intentions in life. These are the most dangerous. We should get rid of. These are directing our life every day, what we call the intentions of our present personality. I think the so-called orthodox science on psychology and parapsychology should engage themselves to study all that. Instead of opening the books and take instructions from Freud, Jung, and all those nonsense. There is only one book you can rely on it. The book of our life. Studying our life. Studying within. I had a professor of psychology in a university. Of course, I will not mention his name. He wouldn't like it. He came to me with a pile of books of Freud and all the things he came just to discuss on certain things. I was laughing. He was speaking and speaking and telling and telling. Professor, you are wasting your time. Because what you are telling? You get results as causes to reach to decisions by seeing other results. You know what you are doing? It is as if I take you in a field and a river is coming from somewhere just flooding all that field and you get a shovel and you start just stopping the water running from here, just to stop it from another place and then the water overflows and then you start again doing it in vain. What you have to do is find the source, go there and change the route of water and everything will be alright. The water will not overrun. He was just thinking, I think, maybe you are right. No, I am right. It is not maybe I am right. He said, but think. Of course, I have shown him some other phenomena. We spoke much on it. He turned the book and said, no more these stupid books will mislead me. I said, unfortunately, my dear professor, you are saying it is in its infancy yet. What can we do? Work on it. You work. Just start with yourself by introspection because there is not great difference between you and the others. Study yourself. You may know the personality of others also. And then work on these lines in future. Now he is working on these lines and I am sure he will present very valuable books to serve psychology and parapsychology. But that is not the work only of a professor of psychology. It is the duty of every human being, man or a woman, so that that human being come out of the troubles, the illusions of the daily life. To know where each person stands in the society. Now if somebody would ask you, are you satisfied of your life? You will find hundred reasons not to be satisfied. And I am asking you, why do you think that God had sent you to live in a material body? In a material body with so much work from the archangels to build it in every moment, to work in it, to keep it in good order for you to live in it. So much precious work just for nothing so that you say you are not satisfied of life. That is a blasphemy against God. Because God has done it having a reason behind it. What is that reason? You think, to wake us up, to become masters of our bodies, all the bodies, the material, the psychological, the ethical, and stand up and know what we are and who we are. You say, yes, shall we be satisfied and happy then? I say, definitely you will. Because if you have to live in the material world, in the material plane, coming things which in the past were shaking you, now they pass without noticing them too much. They will not just torture you. You become, what I call, patient and tolerant towards the others. You will not see now the behaviour of the others as crimes. Yes, you may see them as stupidities, but not as crimes. Then you change completely your attitude towards life. Well, is that not something worthy doing? To free ourselves from the troubles, from pain, and from the modern illness. You call it angst, agony. Really, I don't understand that. Unless I find it a kind of stupidity. I hear it very often from many people, Cyprus, everywhere. I have that. I say, what kind of illness is that? I don't understand it. But I feel it. Yes, of course you feel it. Why don't you get rid of it? You are creating it. Why should you create it? Instead of doing so, it gives me insomnia. I cannot sleep during the night. That's your fault. Find a way to get out of this trouble. So, every human being now finds himself swimming in an ocean of ignorance. We should better come out of this ocean of ignorance. To find ourselves, find who we are as human beings, men or females. I'm not going to just reject our present depersonality. For God's sake. You are just where the absolute, infinite, super intelligence has chosen to put you there to get the next lesson. Nothing is by chance. Everything is under the divine plan. So, it's not by just rejecting the present circumstances and conditions of your life, but studying them, correcting them, so that you go forward. Nothing to abandon and reject. But start knowing who it is. Free yourself from the influences of everything around you. Never undervaluing anything, but never overvaluing anything. Again, using the mind in a reasonable way. As God, I said yesterday, is giving you the air and the oxygen to breathe. You don't make any effort to breathe. The Holy Archangels undertook even that, that you breathe subconsciously and your material body to live. Now you have just to breathe the mind, not subconsciously, self-consciously, and use it as a reason to live the proper life, the true life, in all the planes of the worlds of existence. They are good. All are good. Though I don't believe it myself. I say something I don't believe. At least the material body, the material world, never makes good. So we have just most of the people are so fascinated with the material world, so why should I just say I'm not satisfied? But believe me, knowing the higher, higher and higher realms, and reaching to the stage of this self-realization, you find this well-lighted by the sun world very gloomy and very dark. So, now we'll make an exercise. Now, as I get from your minds, most of you are suffering from certain so-called illnesses. Most of them are in your imagination. But they can be developed into pathological because what you have in your mind, good or evil, comes. Studying the subconsciousness, you should know all that. Yes, some people have pain here, or in their head, or here, or there. I can't say they don't have. They have it. But that does not see just causes which do not exist. See that your material body enjoys the right etheric vitality. But you are not exhausting it by being angry, hating, overworking. One should just see how one is living. So, then you'll have a good health in his material body and in his psychical body. Now, have this in your mind, that this very moment one archangel from each order of the archangels is working in your material body and your other bodies. A Michael just giving warmth in your body. Gabriel to give you the liquid and water in your body. Raphael, to feed your etheric double in your body with the etheric vitality. Shaman just provides you with the cross material for your material body. And these angels and archangels are cooperating perfectly to build in this body of yours certain organs. The eyes, the brains, the tongue, the thyroid, the lungs, the heart, the glands, the liver, the pancreas, the spleen, the genitals, the most important part in the order of God. Feet, hands, so many things in your body. Now, this moment, they are working perfectly to keep it in good order. What right do you have to cause illnesses in that body of yours? We call it yours while it isn't. It's theirs. By a way of living which is not the right one. Agony, hatred, just desires, unbridled desires, emotions, most of the time, egoistic emotions, just burning up the etheric vitality which they need to keep the material body in good order. So, it's natural to be healthy and to be ill is unnatural. So, you help them do that. Breathe deeply with a comfortable breathing. Feel you are in this material body of yours. You call it yours. You have the right to call it yours. Feel you are in it. Breathe deeply and thank them for what they are doing in your bodies. Bodies, not only the material, the etheric double, the psychical body, the nautical bodies. They are working in all your three bodies. Thank them. And promise that you will use now the super substance of the mind in the correct way. Right thinking, logical way of behaving and of living. We are favored by the absolute infinite beingness to use the mind. I say again, the mind is not a handful of brains in the skull. We are allowed to use it as right thinking to make our life, temporary life in this material plane, just that kind of life which gives us pleasure to us and to the others around us. We don't have the right to cause pain to the others around us. You can ask, of course, the help of these holy archangels in your bodies. You can ask, of course, for the help of your guardian angel. You are talking to him and talking to him without knowing it. If you do that, you will thank the absolute infinite beingness life because you are part of that life. Ask and it will be given to you. Knock and it will be opened to you. Ask a healthy material body. You need it to be healthy. Ask help so that you use the mind in the proper way to face your present day duties having just a companion, a husband, a wife, children to fulfill your duties towards God and towards man. Enough. What do you think you are doing now? Praying. That's the right prayer. Not just reciting words and words and your mind loitering about to something else. A prayer is just reaching what I call the truth, even the relative truth. This is a real prayer. Now. 2- How to become master of Time and Circumstances And now, on the work, we said yesterday, that we find ourselves as a personality in a human material body. Most of you know very little about the material body. How many organs are in the material body functioning for you? To keep your material body in perfect health. Now, the orthodox science searches for it. Yet, you know you have a material body. Under the care of the holy archangelic orders. Now, under good care. If we don't interfere in their work, with an innocent way of living. Any seeker of the truth, should study the material body. You can get a good book on anatomy. Really, the orthodox science is praiseworthy. To make that known to every human being. Is it necessary for a seeker of the truth to study all that concerning the material body? Is it necessary for a seeker of the truth to know all that concerning his body? Just to understand what is going on in his material body. And understand the total wisdom of the creators. To understand that most great wisdom. And cooperate with them in keeping that material body in perfect health. Because though, Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, said that the flesh and the body is nothing. It is the spirit, not Christ, the spirit who is giving life. Yet, of course, stones there mean nothing. But stones can build a temple, a church. And he said that the body of a human being is the temple of God. So, from this point of view, it is worthy. Now, how these holy archangelic orders are working in the body? Through the etheric double. And we said that the etheric double is the mould. The mould. In which and through which every organ, every atom, everything in the body is created. Created. How? We must have the means of creation. Which is the etheric vitality. Our daily bread we are asking. Our daily bread we are asking for. And we know that a certain amount of this etheric vitality is given to us daily. That means, better said, through the day and during the night. Jesus Christ said, Father, give us this day our daily bread. Since the Father is giving it. To every phenomenon of life. In all the kingdoms, the vegetable and the animal kingdoms. And in another saying, Christ said, Whether you ask the Father or not, He will give you. Because He knows of what you are in need of. Then why should we ask? Just for us to convince ourselves that we must have it and we will have it. Not that He is in need of asking Him. And that we will have what we need. We will have what we need. Jesus said, Who is that human being when His children ask Him for fish, will give them a snake to eat. Or when they ask for bread, He will give them a piece of stone. And you, human beings, cunning beings, know how to give good things to your children. Your kind, most merciful Father doesn't know what He will give you. For what you are in need. So, God is giving us daily our daily bread. A certain amount we need and more. What is our duty? Not to waste it. That mind, etheric vitality. What are we doing? Are we wasting it, burning it without reason? Yes. Now, if I say, for example, the Father is giving hundred units every day. Forty are needed by the holy Archangels to look after and construct the material and the other bodies. Forty? We are using it. Moving about. Thinking. Feeling. Everything we are doing is burning this etheric vitality. Just as a car, a motor car is in need of this and she needs to move about. So, our bodies are in need of the etheric vitality. Where is this etheric vitality? In the air, in the oxygen we are breathing. In the water we are drinking. In the food we are eating. Yes. And in the air we are breathing and in the water we are drinking and in the food we are eating. The holy Archangels separate it and work with it. This is our daily bread. This is the etheric vitality which is materialized from energy into matter, living matter. Which the holy Archangels need. So, we have every day during the whole day these hundred months. So, this etheric vitality is in what we call our subconsciousness in our etheric double and in the other etheric doubles. The seeker of the truth should be in contact, conscious contact with his subconsciousness and work with the creators. So, we have to learn and understand the quantity and the quality of this etheric vitality. Quality. We have many qualities of this. Yes, we have. We have the pure crystal water which you contaminate and you make it too mud. We have. And we should know how to keep it crystal clear. How to contaminate this etheric vitality. Which is in all the etheric doubles of the three bodies. By negative feelings and negative thinking. So, we are responsible for that contamination. So, a seeker of the truth after learning the existence of the bodies. Now, especially the psychical and the noetical body. He has as a personality ego now wisely to use this etheric vitality. Not making the mind dirty with unbridled desires insane emotions with wrong feelings vices enmities cruelty jealousies So, he should know the nature of this kind of mind substance. What will be the gain? The present day vitality used properly will become that kind of body of ours clean and capable to express our selfhood. Will become more able to live our human life in the material body. And controlling our desires our emotions and cleaning this subconsciousness will gain our selfconsciousness in the psychical plane. Will open the gates from the material world to the psychical world. In the world sooner or later we will go there. That means gaining the selfconsciousness in the psychical world. And what about the noetic world and the noetic world? By controlling the desires, the emotions and correcting things by controlling the desires, the emotions and correcting things by using the mind that means they go together. You must first gain selfconsciousness to the noetical plane you must first gain selfconsciousness to the noetical plane and then you will find that you are selfconscious in the psychical plane. So it goes together the desires and the emotions can be controlled by the thoughts and the mind. So we say we live in our psycho-noetical body now. By working and developing in those levels the selfconsciousness you see that these two are going together the phenoetical and the psychical. Then how we are sure that we are progressing by expressing now new powers of self ego soul personality which are these powers? The attunement to we can concentrate on something and know everything concerning it. And now you find out that you are controlling the sense of time. How? Time is needed to know something. It takes time with the present means to know something. Reaching the attunement to a single moment might correspond to hours. In understanding and in knowing that's what I say you gain control over time. So you have time with a different sense now. And what about the attunement or the oneness you gain later? There is no such thing as time. Anymore. You enter in the eternal present the eternal now. Now, according to my own experiences are you losing the sense of time? Entering in the eternal now? No. But it's something you have now. It's not something you conceive living compulsorily. Being there you can see anything you like on the cosmic memory. You make for yourself the time. Which means? How can I make myself the time? In seeing something according to your choice. What I want what I choose. And slowly, slowly because there is no more time faster very fast you will be the master of time now. What is needed now is the power of understanding. Now we think we are in very deep mind waters and it needs good divers. So time for you is as you wish to have it. You can see an event in the past who had taken place in the course of certain years. You can sit entering the cosmic consciousness and see it according to your choice. If you have gained the self super consciousness you can see it slowly, slowly and enjoying everything more quickly or repeat it anytime you like. If you like it. So you become the master of time. Now, seeing in the cosmic memory you are sitting just on a flat surface like a television. No! You live in it there. You move about the events. When you start gaining the power of visualization which is on duty of the seekers of the truth of the innermost circle which is on duty of the seekers of the truth of the innermost circle then you find out that you live in the cosmic memory as being a three dimensional world moving about something else. If you were in that event you live there according to the ability of understanding moving around like all other human beings. But now entering in this scene you see when you are yourself moving about. You are elemental. But now you laugh because now you know many things which you didn't know that time. And you will make the comparison. Many times this happened to me looking in the cosmic consciousness. In things concerning me being there I could see my elemental moving about and behaving as, say, curator. As somebody else. In past incarnations. Of course I know that I was that. Whatever that element knew I know. But that elemental which is living in the cosmic memory does not know what I know now. Many times seeing it behaving I tell him, no. I understand that. So, you are reliving it. But now master of the circumstances. Master of what you see. And Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said and Jesus Emmanuel the Christ said nothing is secret and nothing will remain secret. When you reach the self-superconsciousness. Now, seeing certain things which are very very bad you have done in previous incarnations. which are very very bad you have done in previous incarnations. Now free from those wisest. How you will feel seeing them? Is that a punishment? Who is punishing? You, yourself. Everything is there. Here. Now. Because it is beyond the sense of time. Now, something most interesting. Why you don't remember your past incarnations? Why you don't remember your past incarnations? This is the mercy of the almighty El Shaddai, the Logos. You will never remember anything which will block your way to progress. You will never remember anything which will block your way to progress. And when you reach the self- superconsciousness though you see you are elemental of that time that cannot give you pain or remorse. Then you will value then you will value the mercy of the almighty. Many are coming and say they want to know their past incarnations. You will never be able to do that unless you deserve knowing. unless you deserve knowing. If seeing will give you pain. But something more interesting in every one of us is the lesson given by the past incarnations. As talents predispositions predispositions just preoccupations and feelings. So in every one of you is the lesson. Follow it. Do it. No need to remember circumstances and events. But soon that will give you new lessons the El Shaddai, the Logos which in you and everywhere will wake up your memory. Because in our spirit, soul, ego there is no such thing as forgetting. Sooner or later every one of us will see waking in him or in her the memory. Now rely on the predispositions. That means the tendencies you are going to leave. The influences. On the lesson on Thursday we will speak more about the etheric double in your bodies. The etheric double in your so called psychical body. Where are stored there your subconsciousness and the elementals composing your personality. And the nature of the mind now as thought through the brains. And how you will gain it not using the material brains. I will describe the whole way which is what? You. Ich bin der Weg. Die Wahrheit und das Leben. You will find it in you. That means work. Understand that nothing is gained without serious work. By whom? By you as a personality. With the help of the soul within you. And your holy guardian angel. With whom you must come in self-conscious touch. Contact. Though you are speaking to this archangel in you. Day and night you don't understand it. You will learn the way how to come in contact. Now we will make a meditation. Breathe deeply. Relax completely. Seize down every thought and every emotion in you. Concentrate in your breath now. Breathe deeply and feel the air filling your lungs. Breathe deeply and ask. Who is asking now? You. Asking whom? Put the question and sooner or later sometime you will get the reply. Who am I? If it comes before you. Your name and your sex and your present personality. Don't you know? I am. Put the question. You are only myself. Or something more. Who you are replying now is a shadow of the past. Today I am living and I am asking I am putting the question who am I? I didn't ask you to come forward from the past. Who am I? As life. As spirit everlasting. I am. What is that I? What is the I-ness in me? As life. What you are presenting me is my way of life. Your way of life. But I am not only you. You are a shadow. Who am I? What is my I-ness? I am self-conscious. What is self? Don't try to get an answer. Put only the questions. The answers will come from your guardian archangel in you. Now. I am living in this material body. Now I am living consciously in this material body. I feel it. And I know I am living in it. Yet very often I don't feel it. I am out of it. Entering in a state of nothingness. Which is not real. Who is recomposing me as a present personality? What is that phenomenon of the recomposing of my personality? After entering in a dreamless sleep. In the realm of the phenomenal nothingness. Yet I am I. What am I? Now I live, I feel and I think. Now this moment. How it happens that now I am and I am existing. For so many thousands of centuries has passed in time and so many thousands of centuries have passed. Where had I been all that time? If I was not, how do I am now? What am I? As a living human being. As a soul, ego being. Beyond sex, form. Or way of life. I want to separate life, myself from my way of life. Very different from the one way of life to the other way of life of others. I am life, living as everybody else. I will study the way of my life and be the master of it. The master of my destiny. On Thursday the lesson will be on the various bodies of a human being and the elementals. on the various bodies of a human being and the elementals. And the difference between the various states of consciousness. Only these three lessons given yesterday, today, and on Thursday are enough for you to work in a whole life. 2- Live an Examined Life I Now, what we have to do? The seekers of the truth, those people in the society who are not satisfied, only living instinctively and nothing more. What are we to do? Find who we are. We are in both sides. As present-day personality today, you start from here. They're developing, developing, developing what they call consciousness. It's another vast field of study. Consciousness. What's consciousness? Let's talk about instinctive subconsciousness. Now, human beings are living subconsciously. They are not living even consciously. We have to develop this called self-consciousness after we develop our consciousness. But are we not conscious of what? No! You think you are conscious of the world. You think you are conscious of things. You are living subconsciously. We have to develop using the mind, the greatest gift given by God to the human being. Ourselves are God, it's our nature, the mind. It's a different thing. But as human beings, we are given this mind by the Infinite Beingness and the Logos. Give us this day our daily bread. That's our daily bread we are asking. Because if it is the bread you find on the table, you will say, go to the baker's and get bread. Buy bread. You will not ask God to give you your daily bread. So our daily bread is the mind, using it as thought, as a reason. So, we have to live our life as it is today. Because we are living our life as it is today to get the next lessons we have to learn. Which the absolute intelligence considers that we have to learn. Nothing is happening unless there is a purpose behind it and the will of God. This is what you have in your mind. So, escaping from the present day circumstances is not wise. We have to get the lessons today. In this society we find ourselves, we have been placed so that we will advance. So, what do we have to learn? Study our life as it is today, as we express it today. Study the condition of our so-called present day personality. Study who you are as a man or a woman having a name and your predispositions in life. Now, I will help you in that. What should we find? This so-called present day personality of yours, how you are affected by the circumstances surrounding you. The same circumstances are not affecting all people in the same way. They affect them according to their own development. So, you have to study things around you. These things are giving me facetious impressions and the impressions are creating within my personality now certain reactions. Of pleasure or of pain. It depends upon you. Which are the reactions? Seeing things within your personality is creating what you call the desire, the wish. At first of knowing what has drawn your attention, later of having it, possessing it, calling it yours. Then this is the point to say, why? What is that to me? Creating in me, in my personality now, this feeling or the wish or the desire of getting or having it. We start working on our psychical body now or our emotional body. This is the duty of every seeker of the truth. Until this point enough, but it goes on. It has been created, that desire, that wish, knowing we know it now. Having it, possessing it, getting it, anything around you. Then it starts again a devilish behavior. I will have it at all costs. Of course, reasonable people will say, can I have it? Yes, I like it. Well, in due time, when I get enough money, I will call people to buy it. This is the reasonable thinking. The other will find cunningly certain ways how to have it quickly. Borrowing money, stealing money. Then he has to face the consequences. The other one, he may even kill somebody to get something he likes. You have to study these conditions in the present day personality. And we come to another point. Studying all these things, I am using what? The mind. What is the mind as thought? Of course, in the course of studies we see that even matter is mind-solid. We have mind as matter, we have mind as substance, we have mind as super-substance, we have mind in purer forms. Who am I now, even as a present personality, being able to use mind, thinking? No animals around me of any kind can do it. So, we have all the time to exercise what we call our divine nature of observation. It is the divine nature of observation. Nothing to escape your attention. Observation is the main characteristic of the holy Archangels. Nothing is escaping their attention and their power and their creative work. Coming in contact with the Archangels, you will learn many lessons, very precious lessons. Now, starting us to take care of this truth. This desire, this wish has been created in my personality. It's not in me. Why? Because all the time in the course of the so-called life on the material plane, many, many, many, many desires will come to you. Some of them will be fulfilled. You will just be able to have them. Some, no. And now you will see what is the result of being fulfilled or not being fulfilled the desires in your personality. So, this is the field of the seeker of the truth, to reach what we say, knowing the time and place, space, self, which is not your real self. Your real self is behind, but it is also a kind of self which has to be saved. You have to save even that self, because even your present personality is divine. You must have that in your mind. Nothing perishes. Nothing is lost. Now, I say something to prove you that your present personality is immortal, and it is not the result of your life in the material body. God created the graduates that will be waking up. Maria, Eleni, George, Hans, doesn't matter who you are. You have a personality today. In any stage of development, a wise man, a considerate man, somebody getting angry very easily, feeling that or that way, that's the composition of your present personality. Who says it is still immortal? And it is not the product of the food or of any material you get. So, this material body, every 24 hours, has to sleep. It needs. Holy Archangels cast you away so that they will make repairs in your body. That you, as Maria, Eleni, George, Hans, anybody else, you enter in a state of non- beingness for certain hours. If, of course, you are developing your self-consciousness and consciousness, you can live consciously in what we call the psychical world, the other world, or have a very nice dream. Dreams do not exist. It is experiences which exist. And then return back in the morning, wake up. Who wakes up? Mary, Eleni, George, Hans, as they were, a few hours before entering in that state of non-existence. So, it means that you, you are the real self. It is recomposing each shadow. You are time and place self. And this is happening at least once every 24 hours. Where had you been in time? You were, let us say, in a dreamless sleep. You existed. You have entered in a world of non-existence. Who recomposed your present day self? You recomposed your present day self. You. Who are you now? You are the real self. Behind it. Because we are gods and sons of the absolute infinite beingness. Only this event, if you study, you will understand that. Even the present day personality is not going to perish. And what about death? It is just the same as the material body getting to sleep. Yes. With the difference now, you will find yourself as Maria, Helen, George, Hans, in the psychical plane. You find yourself every night in the psychical plane, but you have not developed this material brain to carry the experiences you had in that state, which you have got it out of non-existence. You existed as you are, but you have to breach. Just you are coming back to the material world. So, by practices, exercises, you can do that in the course of time. How long? Nobody can say. Because each one will follow his or her own development. So, even your present day personality as it is, with all its virtues or vices, is immortal. Now we say, you have lived hundreds and hundreds, maybe, of incarnations in the past. Where are they? In you as soul-spirit. They are there. Well, someday, when all this chain of personalities which are in your present day personality and your immortal self can be brought to the surface. So, when one reaches, what you call, the liberation, is not losing anything. Each incarnation of yours is just a book you are writing. Every day we are writing to the Cosmic Consciousness everything we are living, we are doing, we are thinking, composing in each incarnation a book. You have your library, your own. When you reach that liberation, you are allowed to choose any book of any time and any place and go through it. Read it line by line and page by page. Not, of course. Because you are not then a human being. You are a God. Just in an instant you can know everything concerning a whole life. Because then you are not using, what you call, your present day subconsciousness or even your present day self-consciousness. So, when I say self-consciousness now, I can call it self-consciousness concerning my present day personality or my I-ness. I don't know if there is any better word for I-ness. Your ego. We are far away from just finding this truth. No. You just analyze your present day self. And just what I taught you, entering in the so- called non-existent state, then next day recomposing yourself with all your virtues and vices, you will study your present day personality. And by starting making changes of your present day personality, you become a seeker of the truth. And believe me, it is a great, great title if you understand what it means. It is a great title. So, becoming a seeker of the truth, you have just to change whom? Your present day personality. So, by changing your present day personality, it means that your present day personality is immortal. Undergoing changes and not annihilation. And this is the way how even our present day personality should be saved. Otherwise, it is going to perish. There is no such thing as perishing. Because in the parable of the most beloved one, Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, the prodigal son has to return back home. It doesn't say in the parable that the prodigal son committed suicide and was lost, or that he remained just keeping the swine and eating the food the swine were eating. That means cutting his own elementals. The parable says that the prodigal son returned back home. Now, with much more wisdom. And what did he meet? An angry father. Maybe the priest was an angry father. But he is never getting angry, our heavenly father. The prodigal son made one step towards the father and the father made the other nine towards him. Embracing him. Welcoming him back home. Giving him the first dress of his godhood. Is that a word? Of his divine state. Plus something the holy archangels do not have. The ring on his hand. What is this ring? He knows now what is time in eternity. Which the holy archangels do not know. When you ask the archangels, many times I did it. What is time? What is the present day? What is the present time? They cannot reply. They say, now. They know the eternal now. The everlasting now. The everlasting present. But what is past, present and future? They don't know. That's the ring. Moving. Because life in the material place is movement. Going around a ring. You never find an end to stop. As long as you are moving. That's the eternity. But there is a point in moving. The holy archangels know the ring as a whole. They don't know motion on the ring. So the parable of the prodigal son is very, very enlightening. But to reach that point, the father must sacrifice the calf which was the material body. Not the form. So the form, the human form, without characteristics. The characteristics you have now, you have them always in all your incarnations. If a man could see you being in the caves as a caveman, or now, he would understand that's you. Because each one of us has his characteristics. These are yours. In the form. The form, human form, is never lost. But dressing the form, the clothes can be cast out. And redressing the form. But is this form visible to the material eyes? Why should it be? But it is visible, of course. Tomorrow we will give a lesson on what is this form in the course of the circle of possibilities. What we are really as gods. Now we will make an exercise. The first most important thing is to learn how to relax completely. Sit as comfortably as you can. And start relaxing every part of your body. Starting from the toes. Completely relaxed. Feel that your material body is completely relaxed. Take deep breaths. But comfortably. Feel your lungs full. Breathing deeply, but comfortably. Not with tension. Naturally. Hands, feet, belly, thighs. Everything is relaxed. Completely relaxed. Only breathe deeply. And put to yourself this question now. All the time I was breathing and I didn't notice it. Yet I was breathing. I could not stop breathing. Who was controlling this breath? Life giving breath to my material body. I was breathing. That is the instinctive subconsciousness of my body. But now I can control this body of mine. It is mine. I can change the rhythm of my breathing. Who am I able to interfere now? In this breathing way. Giving life to my material body. Who am I? I feel I am in the whole material body. Feel you are in all the material body. But who am I? Now center your concentration on the left foot. From the knee to the toes. You can do it. Feel your left foot from the knees to the toes. Only. The whole other body is relaxed completely. Don't feel it anymore. Be in it, but don't feel it. Feel now your left foot from the knee to the toes. You are there. It is yours. You can feel it. Now feel from the toes to the place you are sitting on the chair. The whole foot. The leg. The thigh. To the place you are sitting on the chair. The whole left foot. It is yours. You can be in it. Feel it. Now leave it and feel your right foot now. From the knee to the toes. Only from the knee to the toes. Feel it. Then feel your foot from the toes to the place you are sitting. The whole foot. Leg and thigh. Now feel both your feet. From the place you are sitting to the toes. Now we will enter in a more important place in our body. Of our etheric double. The belly. From the sternum to the place you are sitting on the chair. Feel the whole belly. Intestines are not an obstacle. Feel only the belly. This is more difficult but do it. Feel the whole belly. You are in it. In reality you are in the etheric double of the material body. We enter in a more important part of our body now. From the thyroid to the belly. Breathe now more deeply and feel the air entering in your lungs. This is a more important part of the body. Now your attention is under your arms. Because there are centers there. Don't feel the arms. Feel the lungs now. Breathe deeply feeling the lungs with etheric vitality. In this part of your body are the most important parts of the body. The heart. The lungs. Certain glands. That is the most important work done by the holy archangels. In the lungs and in the heart. And also in the other organs. For your body to live. Breathe more deeply. And say to yourself, who am I? Living in this body. Having a heart of mine. And lungs. Which I can feel. With any rhythm I like. Now feel the head. Feel doesn't mean tension. Just feel the whole head. You are in the head and around the head. Feel your eyes. Your nose. Feel your tongue in your mouth. Feel in the skull. In the brains. No tension. Only feeling them. Feel the back of your head. Feel the whole head. Now feel you are in the whole body from the toes to the top of your head. Feel inside your body. Take deep breaths. And feel being in the whole body. And put this question. Who am I? Forget your name and if you are a man or a woman. Who am I? Who can do that? I can do it. I can express a will. Which is my divine nature. Enough. Do the Archangels working in your body now. A Michael, a Gabriel, a Raphael, Uriel and others. Know what you are doing. Do they follow you? Of course they do. And they are rejoicing that you are starting getting control of your body. They will help you. Ask them. Your body to have a better health. And they will give you the answer. Do you really want that? Yes. Don't be an obstacle to our creative work in your body. Life is sacred. The everlasting life. Our self, God. Our divine selfhood is sacred. Life in a material body is sacred also. We must thank the Holy Archangels of the elements. Building it up for us. And keeping it in good order. And in our new way of living. Soberly. We cooperate with them. In the health, not only of our material body. Also of the psychical body. And the ethical body. To request them to teach us. To use the mind as reasonable thought. Knowing to use the mind, we become masters of the mind matter. Enough. 2- Mastery of The Holy Mind and the Life of the self What, then, we are supposed to find? It needs much, much work and sincerity with yourselves, that I am life, and I am living now, now, in a material body, which I have to study and know what it is. and acknowledge, thanks to those who are building it and keeping it in good order. I, now, must start to search this so-called self of mine, which is not myself. It is my reflection, which is intentions, emotions, desires, certain purposes, and, starting now, the way we are living, we will find out the reactions to these desires and these emotions. We find that through these reactions are created in our personality, what we call the subconsciousness, having in it habits, weaknesses, malice, jealousy, hatred. We find the negative, now, nature of this personality of ours, which is the egoism. We study, now, seriously, what is going on in our personality. As I said in a lesson, one should boldly decide to enter in that jungle he had created, which is the personality's subconsciousness. And then, study everything, expressing our divine nature, the observation. The observation means knowing, leading to what we call the truth. So, exercising our divine nature of observation and the skill, now, of using the mind as thought, as right thinking, just check, find the value of things in our life. What we'll find out? That we are overvaluing some things and we are undervaluing other things. We have to be sincere, now, to find the real value of everything. There must be a kind of value. But I repeat it, never overvalue and never undervalue. For example, we undervalue terribly life and we overvalue things we have in our way of living. This is the first thing we have just to study. That in things in our life, desire and the feelings of possessiveness, ownership, and how. There are many, many hows. Now, we are doing it. How to check them? That's what I call real introspection, which I give much, much importance to this introspection or looking within. Self-analysis. And by self-analysis we mean our personality now. Because that kind of self-needs an analysis, not our real self, our real self, God, is not in need of analyzing it, but living in it. So, the way. Every day we must, by observation, meditation, and introspection, bring to the surface of our so-called consciousness, waking consciousness, an event which has happened that day. We have to check the behavior of others towards us and our behavior to the others. Let's say, it doesn't matter how they have behaved to us, but it matters how we have behaved to them. Have I behaved properly? Had I been the master of the situation and of the circumstances, or I was just shaken up by the circumstances, forgetting myself, getting angry, or getting wounded, getting offended, being insulted, insulting. Was that the proper behavior? Now we start thinking seriously. No, I should be calm. Instead of getting excited, which is the egoism guiding us to that, I could just, with love and with understanding, explain to the others and get explanations from the others. What is the matter in reality? There must be maybe a misunderstanding. That means being master of the situation. In introspection, in checking our behavior, now we are the soul-self and not the egoistic personality of a few hours before, who now is nothing more than a memory and a dream. To find out that our life could become past, it may become as a dream. It remains in us the experience, which is very, very precious to know, check and exercise. Precious in what? In finding who we are and who we are not. That's the great value of the introspection or looking within. Then what do you think you'll find? Provided all the time you'll be careful not to allow the egoism of your personality to interfere and give reasons. No. No, that's the measure I am measuring. The measure of the principles and not of the emotional discrepancies. Then you start living according to principles. Then you come to know, yes, I am not what I thought I was. And what I thought I was now is past. It's a dream. And even now, this moment, I am not what I am thinking and I am feeling that I am. But I am life. I am reasoning. And thus, by introspection, I bring forward in my self- consciousness something which has happened. And I study it now. And I get conclusions. Tomorrow I'll do the same for what happens now, this moment. But I can live this moment now probably by being calm and serene. And in this way you have to separate yourself, your soul, now ego-self, from the personality-self you thought you were, when you were not. Withdrawing yourself from the way this egoism, time and place, kind of ego was leading you. This is the aim of our life. To live and know why and how to live. And what's life? Seeing it from this point of view. Life is God. Life is our own divine expression. Life. And I say, and life is not the way each one of us is living mixed up in interests which are not everlasting but are just passing. Studying now our emotions and our desires what do we find? Something which was interesting us, causing us the desire of having it. That desire was very, very powerful. Of course, not all of them to the same degree. A desire, they make you think, just work and money and have what I want, what I desire of having. But desire sometimes to certain people is so strong that if you don't have the means of having it you kill, you steal, you use violence. It's something we see every day in the society all around us in all places of the world and not by individuals, by nations. Power. Things. Calling them our own. Leading to what? Wars. Quarrels in a family. Divorces. Fighting, killing. These are the results of egos. So we come to the conclusion we are not that kind of self which is our personal egoism. But we are life itself reasoning now. We don't have any excuse because God the Father is giving to all the mind to think, to use it. Just to think now seriously. As a human being to exist, let us say feeling that I am the body. I am in need of food, of water, of air, of etheric vitality which I get. God the Father and the Lord is giving. Need light and everything is given to us in abundance. And the Holy Archangels are building the material body. I am given also. The mind does understanding and feeling. And the mind which I can use as thought and reasoning. There is no excuse why we don't use it. So that we build our personality. We have to build our personality because the heart and the inner life of the personality is our own soul ego which is God and has to transmit the personality ego now to itself. This is the purpose of life in the material plane. Now, in the course of time what do we find? We gain as a personality what we call consciousness. Let us start from the level of waking consciousness. Behind it is the subconsciousness. It is the instinctive consciousness. It is the sensitivity. We can study that but no need to give much attention to that. Now, studying our present day personality we find a kind different to each one of us of self-consciousness our personality which is the sum total of our emotions and of our thoughts and of our impressions of the elementals you have created or revitalized from the group of elementals making them part of that personality of ours of our time and place self. Now, we make also the mistake that we are the consciousness. The waking consciousness. But that is all the time changing from waking consciousness to self-consciousness. Now, we start just to study this kind of self so that we separate the real self-spirit soul-ego from egoist. From this point of studying the so-called self-consciousness is the critical point which our ego does not like. Because he knows that in the course of time we will find that we are not the time and place personalities egoists. The self-consciousness we can just even without being so much precious for us expand through it, be conscious self-conscious even in the psychical plane that's why people are not remembering living in the psychical plane because they have not developed the so-called self-consciousness of the personality in the psychical plane. But did they develop the kind of self-consciousness even on the material plane? No. What I say is that we are conscious of things all around us, studying things they have a kind of waking consciousness but very few of those who have self-consciousness even as a personality when one is able just to know and feel a self-consciousness even to the personality he will behave self-consciously in the psychical plane. Now, some people are putting me the question how self will make an exosomatosis they hear of that and they just would like to have an exosomatosis be out of their material body I'm laughing because every day you make that kind of exosomatosis finding yourself in the psychical plane the point is not how to make exosomatosis or leave the material body and be in the material plane but it is just to develop your kind of consciousness to the self- consciousness so that you will carry that self-consciousness of the present personality to the psychical plane and then you will live self-consciously in the psychical plane as well as you are living in the material world so it's not a matter of exosomatosis it is a matter of developing this kind of self-consciousness of the personality which proves if we can develop a self-consciousness of our personality in being self-conscious in the psychical world and in the ethical world then it means that even in my present personality I have my divine state of being God this proves that even our personality is divine because it is difficult to explain to you these very deep things with words you have to practice them and you have to access what I call observation nothing to escape your attention and get it and use the thought and thank God who gave you the mind to know so, this kind of life now should be very precious to you what do you call this kind of life? the research and you should be proud to call yourself seekers of the truth this is the aim, the truth to know what is real to know what you are really and you cannot do that unless you get the habit of using the mind as thought reasoning checking and controlling the lower vibration of mind which are emotions desires that disentangle the thought from the emotion there is no other way but of course what I tell you it is not possible to understand unless you leave all that and by observation reach to this conclusion I gave sometime an example if I try to explain to somebody what is salty a salty thing or salt maybe the scientist wrote books and books formulas, they are AB2H2 and something like that you will not understand anything and I am telling you reading certain books from these you will be more in confusion than knowing the truth besides there are some of them very dangerous in deranging the material health but if I tell you come here put your finger on your tongue and I have a little salt there I tell you put your finger there now put it in your tongue do you know what is salt now? definitely you will know and say yes now I know what do I mean? lectures and books are not linked to anywhere you have to practice and you have to know yourself you cannot get the knowledge from the experiences of others Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said you know the truth and the truth will set you free he didn't say others know the truth and you will be free we have to practice theory I think I have given much too much to the point that you cannot afford having more but what about practice? each one must start practicing himself and be guided to know himself the truth concerning all this the most serious for our life matters so we need using the mind the right way of meditation using our divine nature of observation just try to get the skill of concentration and you will see that your life will be worth living because I am telling you most of the people are living now they have been caught by Joshua Emmanuel the Christ dead and not living sometimes it says in the bible a fellow came to Christ and told himself really I know that Joshua is wise and very good and I want to follow you I want to follow you but my father and my mother are living and they have obligations and I expect them to pass over and when they pass over I will come and tell you you come now and let the dead bury their own dead so are human beings as they are living now no matter if they are living in a civilized country or in a non-civilized country are they really living? or according to Joshua Emmanuel the Christ are dead among real dead you should practice no excuse because you can use the mind God is giving it to everybody in abundance in the same way God is giving the air to everybody to breathe and live and as God is giving the air to breathe and live if the material body gives you the mind to live as a personality and develop your personality to reach your divine nature only make an exercise now before giving the exercise I say if you observe around you no matter where you are living you will see that there is much very much poverty and misery I thought America was a very prosperous and good country and I have been informed that there are people living even in underground railway stations now we have in Cyprus much poverty also everywhere I have been informed there is much poverty and misery and pain and everywhere you go there are some people who when they are in need of some money or something they go and ask they stretch their hand and ask for alms of course people are giving them but there are some who will not do it even if they die by starvation is that right? is that wrong? really I don't know for me I would never do it even if I would die of starvation now a fellow giving something to others of course first of all if somebody is doing it Joshua Manuel de Christ said your left hand should not know what your right hand is doing that means it should be secret but what do you think you are doing? you say yes, I give from my own to that fellow because he is in need of it don't take it in this way, that is not the correct way you give to him what he deserves having because everything material created the material world to everything everybody has the right we are children of the same God who created things we should have that in our mind more than to others we are not giving from our own we are giving from his to his children they are his children as we are children so don't do it with this sense mine, I have mine and I am giving no, not in this sense I am telling you, holy providence will guide you to certain places the holy providence intends that you must be of some help to your brothers giving to them something you call it yours yet it belongs to the father of both of you give it in this sense is it only material things? some money, a piece of bread of course if people are in need of that it is something of course giving to them but when you give to people bread or some money that will be exhausted and next day they will be in need of eating again have some bread apart from the material things are something more precious give your thought, give your love give yourself maybe loving somebody as your brother in God giving an advice you may change his or her life forever that is more precious maybe the time came and the holy providence will provide for that to send you somebody don't lose the opportunity nothing happens on the material plane if that is not the will of God so we will be always ready giving money, giving bread giving material things are good when people are in need of them but people are more in need of another kind of help of our love of our care of our advices of our teaching believe me, whatever God is giving you because you don't give anything yours the mind is not yours, it's his everything belongs to the locus so be ready to please him give to his children what they must have and you be a good child to him he will like it so we should understand that we are not isolated from the locus or from anybody else around us something else when Joshua Manuel de Christ came in on the earth and the material world Palestine was occupied by the Romans of course they expected him to use his powers and everything to send the Romans away from Palestine they even attempted to crown him a king just to force him to do that but he came, he said I came to free man from his lowest self from his egoism enemy of a man is not another human being but his human egoism that's why Joshua Manuel de Christ came in the world so, what I want to say you should not separate yourselves from other people because maybe they are speaking a different language or they have different opinions about life as long as a human being is breathing the same air you are breathing, he is your brother so no distinction when Joshua de Christ said love he didn't say you are neighbor it is mistranslated in the Bible he said every other human being in Greek he said that every fellow man just to show that he didn't make the distinction the Israelites were enemies of the Samaritans and he gave an example of the good Samaritans so, no distinction every human being is our brother or our sister our father or our mother you must have that in your mind so this is Christianity now, everybody should be inspired by the divine intelligence to do his duty towards his fellow man now let's make the exercise every thought relax completely is influencing the psychical atmosphere and we are enriching our psychical atmosphere of our planet all of us, in all parts of the world with our elementals good or not good not to call them bad all human beings living now on the planet with their way of thinking and living strengthen the elementals which they receive in them and they cast them out according to their vibrations strengthening the evil, hatred malice, aggression and all that but also we can strengthen the good elementals benevolence, kindness, gentleness love, especially love to all when I say love to all impersonal love not love which is just to satisfy our personal egoism so one of our duties is to strengthen the positive energies in our planet love now send love starting from your own environment if you search you will find that in your subconsciousness there are certain people who have displeased you departed from them or being with them causing you troubles making you angry behaving to you in a bad way and you reciprocate now bring those persons you can do that by visualization in front of you try not to see them angry see those persons no more you are enemies, you shouldn't have enemies you have loving brothers differences in time and place are things which are passing sometimes as nightmares or bad dreams now see from your heart a sun radiating rosy light make your heart a sun with rosy light and bring these persons one or more, doesn't matter in front of you see that light shining on their face and see them smiling see them happy wish them a good Christmas and a happy new year and mean it these are the best gifts you can give to other people around you and tell them with your mind that you love them and love them really don't just say that only our heart should shine and only love nothing except love to all I say to you love your enemies but if you love those who are loving you prostitutes and evil people and criminals are not doing the same in what way you are different from them they love some people I am telling you love your enemies don't call them enemies, call them brothers and sisters and hatred complaints, anger are very bad poisons in your bodies you don't need them, send them away and love a loving heart is the best medicine both for your bodies and your personality now I am telling something else to love those who love you is human to hate those who love you is devilish but to love those who do not love you I don't say hating you it's divine choose now I wish you all Merry Christmas and Happy New Year and use the divine gift of the mind in the best way it's given you in abundance the more you use it the more the divine father is giving mind to you 2- Our Material, Psychical, Noetical body So, here is the real point. We must get that decision. Put to yourself the question, I, who am I? I, can I now study conditions and things happening in me and around me? I, now I, who? That fellow making the mistake that it is the body's bodies, the material body, his emotions, thoughts, time and space, interests and fascinations, then you come to the decision. But all this is coming and going, are changing. My desires are changing all the time. My emotions, yes, are changing. And my thoughts, yes, are changing. And what do I observe now? Until the present moment, an entity in time and space, I made the mistake to think that it was myself, was allowing these emotions to make these thoughts slaves to these emotions for their fulfillment. And they were giving me, who am I now? Now I must raise the permanent personality, which has to become one with the inner self. Why? Am I the present personality, a man or a woman? But I am all the time changing. The material body is growing, becoming bigger. My emotions, the same all the time, yet changing face. My desires, likewise, changing. Yet I am never changing. I am I. Then I find the opportunity to disentangle myself from what I thought it was myself, which it wasn't. That means egoism. Because I said it's some total, over-elemental emotions, thoughts are composing egoism. Then I catch him, come here. You are not myself. You are my reflection. How? I am life, that's why you are living. It's up to me to kill you, to change you. So now you say, who am I now, observing, criticizing, and who can take decisions about what I say? My behavior, yet that behavior is all not mine. Because deep in you, you feel all the time that for what you have done, you are not the one responsible. Why? Because in reality, your I-ness is not responsible. And that's the I-ness, which has to change position now, not nature. Because your I of yourself is pure. What about George? Say, I am George, and what about Mary? Maybe George is a thief, or a liar, or an adulterer. Yes, George may be. He is the composition of the egoism. Or Mary can be whatever she can be. Yes, that's true, Mary. But George and Mary and any other name is the egoism. When you cross yourself and say, I am I, and you come forward and say, who am I now? I leave behind George and Mary and any other name. Who am I? Can I get the decision now of changing my life, of governing my emotions, desires, seeing my weaknesses and repenting for them? Then, in that moment, be careful. Egoism will come forward and say, yes, but give reasons that now I get you. I am deciding about your behavior, not my behavior, because I now, considering myself reasonable and logical, can see what you have done in what bad state of things you brought me and brought yourself also. Now, who is suffering? It is not egoism. Suffering also? Our egos may not be suffering. At the same time, our self-collectedness is suffering. Yes. If our egoism has masochistic tendencies, we are not obliged to have them. We can free ourselves from these masochistic tendencies. But egoism likes that kind of self-torturing. You will see that. Now, you have to balance yourself. In this side, it is egoism. And I make the mistake that it is myself. In the other side, it is myself. Who am I? How will I find out who I am now? This is not difficult. He said, I have the willpower to think and take decisions. The egoism has no willpower. It has a kind of obstinacy. It is not difficult just to make the distinction between the two states. Then, Portly said, Now, I, entangled to the time and space, influences and things, am giving up these things and enter in my own self. This is the serious decision. What do you find now? At this moment, I thought I was living consciously. Yes, of course. I was not sleeping. I was quite awakened, living in the way everybody is living. I was living consciously. I said, no, you are living subconsciously. You thought you were living consciously. You are all the time under the influence of that egoism. That means you are all the time under the influence of circumstances and the victim of your psychical body. So, in reality, you are not living consciously. By studying, you feel you are living more consciously. More consciously. So, I see a change from the subconsciousness. Living more consciously. But that is not the end. Now, getting the decisions, expressing yourself, you are now living self-consciously. You start to realize who you are. So, we should live self-consciously. Now, we see consciousness as subconsciousness. Living consciously. Living more consciously. And more consciously until you live self- consciously. In self-consciousness, there is no more self-consciousness. You find yourself. When you say, I now live self-consciously, it is self-consciousness. You have this in mind. But what does it mean now? Self-consciousness. You are in attunement now with your soul. Self-consciousness. Then you have to surrender yourself to your real self. Giving up myself to the higher self. Or attuning myself to the higher self. Just see this point. Aren't we going to lose something? Surrender. Leave this I-ness. No. Surrendering means becoming. You are not losing anything. You are finding your real nature. Your real I-ness. I am remains I am. Never changes. But I am I now. You find your self-consciousness. Before, yes. You are expressing a kind of subconsciousness. Consciousness. Living more consciously. And still more and more consciously. Ascending the ladder of consciousness to reach your self-consciousness. Now, in self- consciousness, there is not any change. But spreading out. And within. And everywhere. In space and in the eternal now. Going beyond what we say time and space illusions. Which means there was a self- conscious being. I am not only getting impressions from one place only. This I was doing. Believing what I call consciously in a material body under my emotions and my thoughts as a so-called human being. How am I going now to surrender my human form? Sacrifice it. Before the altar of I-ness. Of my ego. No need. You can leave it and put it on any time you like. No need to be naked. If the weather is hot, take off your coat. Hang it with a suspender. And when you feel you need it, put it on again. It's your coat. So you are not going to surrender the human form. This is what most people are afraid of. Those of the innermost circle, I have. When I give them the exercise, of course I am not going to give this exercise to you, of dissolving the form and remaining outside of the form. And then having it back, they start smiling. So we are not going to lose ourselves. Lose yourself? Definitely no. But is our form, the human form, our self? Why not? Christ had honoured this human form, calling himself the Son of Man. But now we can use this form again without losing our identity as super-consciousness. So now we express ourselves as self-super-consciousness. We can be in many, many places at the same time, on the planet, being fully conscious of our being there, much more being self-super-conscious. Once we gain this super-consciousness, self-super- consciousness, you can use it not only in any place on the planet, but elsewhere, in space and time. Then you realise that there is not past, present and future, but eternal now. For you there is not past, future. It is eternal now. What is the pleasure of it? It is not easy to explain to anyone. Before, he would test it himself, or herself. So, if we consider now, while you are living sub-consciously, slaves of our sub-consciousness, yet believing that we are living consciously, and even expressing ourselves from time to time as more conscious, and still more conscious. When you live as a self-consciousness, then you understand the difference. We are phenomena of life. You are now realising that you are life. And not only simply a phenomenon of life in time and space. We think we are immortal because we are changing. Now you know that there is not such a thing as death, but simply change. And you realise that you are immortal. You find out now that in the way you are living, in what you call the past, or through your reincarnations, you are always under the law of change. You are considering mistakenly as death. Now you know you are immortal. Not mortal. Christ, in the gathering of his disciples, said, some of you will not taste death. He didn't mean that their material bodies would be intact and not die. That some of you definitely, he meant our masters. He meant Philip. He was the master of materialisation and dematerialisation and expressing himself super-consciously. He meant also St. John the Evangelist and another two disciples. Now, if you can try to imagine what is super-consciousness and self-super-consciousness. I am asking you, are you satisfied with the way you are living? Getting up in the morning, start living subconsciously. Everything you do, it's subconsciously. You don't just notice what you are doing. You are doing it by habit. Expressing yourself subconsciously. Just do this and that and that, subconsciously. Yet you think you are living consciously. After some time, by meditation, concentration of salvation, you find out you are now living more consciously but not yet self- consciously. Even from this point of more and more consciously singly life you are living. You will find this kind of life more satisfactory. Just consider what you will feel the time you start feeling self-consciously and self-super-consciously. Now, do you become more an I than you were before? Are you becoming bigger? Now you are smaller? No. Because the ego or our I-ness is all the same. We broaden the field of our observation and influence. So it's not a matter of becoming ourselves bigger or greater. Because the I our I-ness is God. This is what we have just to have always in our mind. What really we should do is to realize and understand what we are as an ego. Whether that ego is a present personality in a male or female body or that ego, God, again, may have in it it now. Not he or she. The whole planet. Living away its material form and having it any moment he chooses. It's not losing anything. It's broadening the consciousness into more conscious living and more conscious living to what we call super-conscious. Do we become gods? When I was giving this lesson in Greece in an inner circle of the independent circles it says, you mean, Rascal, we become gods? You are not going to become something you are not. You are not becoming gods. You realize now who you are. To realize who you are doesn't mean becoming. Nobody is going to become something he is not now. Now, it's what we call self-realization. You may find this in many, many, many books and if you ask them, what do you mean by self-realization? You are using this term. What do you mean? I have put this question to a Hindu professor, a doctor. He had used this term, self-realization. I said, sir, explain to me what is self-realization? He thought this self-realization meant knowing the present-day personality, studying the present-day personality and being master of the present personality. Yes, because you call self your present-day personality, you say self-realization meaning the present-day personality. I said, but are you sure that's you? Your present-day personality is yourself. When you say self-realization, you mean studying the present-day personality? He was looking at me. Apart from your present personality, you believe as a Hindu to Purusha. That means soul, spirit, atma. What is your self-realization as that? He said, I don't dare even imagine that. Well, be where you are. Because he does not want to make a step forward, leaving behind his present-day personality. That means to sacrifice on the altar of truth egoism. He didn't like to do that. And many so-called avatars and swamis and yogis and masters are afraid just to sacrifice on the altar of the truth and of reality that time and space creation which a name. So we have this in mind. When you regain, re-gain, when you are reawakened, God, not becoming God, then you see the world of shadows with a different now disposition. Shall we leave behind our beloved ones? We met people, we loved them as our children, parents. But how many are they? If you are able just to see previous incarnations, I'm asking you, how many fathers and mothers and children and daughters you have now in the present now, in the eternal now? When you enter in what you call Christendom, then you'll understand what Christ said. He said, the one who follows me, that means who comes to that state of becoming one with the Locos, he is not going to leave his father, the mother and children, but I will give him more. He meant that. Now, you don't love less your present children and parents and relatives by loving as much others who have been in time and space in the past. You are. You are children. You are parents. Now, if you understand that, you understand what we are devoted Christ. You are who follows me. I'll give him more children, fathers and mothers. Of course, at that time, people did not understand what he really meant. Now, when you reach that state, will you remember your past incarnations? Of course, definitely. And then you'll appreciate the mercy of God of taking from a present-day personality the memory of past incarnations, yet giving it in its permanent atom all the lessons and experiences which that entity had in previous incarnations. Fears, tendencies, talents, dispositions. No need to remember details. Painful details may be very painful details of the past, but look within you and you'll find the lessons already you have taken from previous incarnations. I tell you definitely, when one is not to be influenced by previous incarnations, the divine intelligences will open him to remember everything. But they will do it if that person remembering will not feel ashamed of himself or of herself, but see what that fellow had written in the previous pages of his book. And something else you must note. The Infinite Beingness as the Locust and as the Holy Spirit in their holy mercy and the guardian angel deprives the present-day personality of a man, even of a criminal, of a thief, an adulterer, anyone, man or woman, of remembering pain. You may remember events, but not the pain. You might have undergone a certain kind of pain, physical, on the physical body, undergoing an operation without anesthetics or something like that. A woman giving birth, there is much pain in it. You can remember the event, a woman giving birth, the room, circumstances, people coming, going, the doctor, everything, experience pain. If you tell her, try to remember pain of a man who has undergone an operation, try just to remember pain. Maybe it was treating a wound without him putting anything there. There was pain, of course, in sewing a wound. He may remember the event, the doctor and what he was doing, but he cannot recall pain because this is the divine mercy. Nobody can remember or re-experience pain. Not only in the material body, in the material body, even in the psychical body, after what we call recovery. Those who will be psychical, psychotherapists, will observe that. Once recovered, a material body, or a psychical body, or mental pain, cannot recall it. And this is what we call the mercy of the infinite beingness. Yes. The locus. The Holy Spirit. Our guardian angels and our holy angels, brothers, are trying to make our life easier for us, but we don't understand it now. Sometime in the future, when we just become more cautious, and more cautious, we'll understand His divine mercy. Now, any questions? Yes. Loudly, please. Yesterday, he came to me in much pain. He was very sad, because he said in his... Previously, he was a very good man, and gradually, over the last few years, his behavior has changed, and he is angry with his wife, his children, with his customers. And the other day, he beat up his wife, and he was very upset and said, please help me. And I said, having been coming to your classes for a year, I could see that it's his egoism, and he's let his egoism control him, but how am I going to teach him all the things that you've told me in a few hours, or can I help him if I teach him what you... Now, all these things I have taught you, where are they now? Within you. Give him what I gave you. How? Will he accept the way you teach me? Will he accept what I'm teaching him? Now, look here, what you do. First of all, say a prayer, and ask for the help of invisible helpers to help you do it. And then do it. And you will do it. Because after all, what's the use of giving your business if you are not going to use it? Use it. So you can do it. Then you will feel the pleasure of helping others. Yes. I would like to ask, on this question, a finer nuance. Sometimes I notice that people want help but they don't ask. I thought we can only help when people ask. But sometimes you feel they want help and they don't directly ask you. And then the second part of the question is, how do we find the right words? Because if I tell the person exactly what you are saying, they don't always understand it. But if I turn it down, sometimes it gets distorted. No, look here. Help people. Don't go about with a jar full of water and the glass says, have a drink. I say, I'm not thirsty. Why should I have it? But those who are thirsty, they will find the way to find the water to drink. So be ready. Be ready when somebody will ask you to give him a glass of water to drink, to have that glass of water there, to give it to him. Don't run after them to give them a glass of water just to drink. Now, if people are not ready, whatever you do will not be able to help them. Before, it's their time to come. Something else. It's not kind waking up a shadow who's sleeping and dreaming. And of course, in this life, many people are sleeping and dreaming. It's not kind, just he's dreaming, snoring. Wake up! I'll come to teach you now. Just go to hell. Leave me alone. Let me sleep. You must be careful. I say, be ready. Be prepared. But, don't get initiality. Don't give them advice if they don't ask them. Be ready, but not making people feel tired. Nobody will follow you unless it's his time to come to you. Now, in studying, many people are very eager to cover distance in knowing, in finding out. I had this case before some days. A lady was attending the lessons. She said, my husband cares about football, going to football, and to acquire. Why he should come and start studying these things? Really? Why should he? He finds pleasure in going to see football. He's stupid. Just shouting, shouting like a fool, with the others shouting. He pleases her. She says, no. He must come. And what do you suggest? No, he must just cover the ground to reach the place you have to reach in knowledge. Yes, that's OK. If you start running, and you can afford running, and you get somebody from behind, say, run with me, to stop and fell down. Is it kind just to hold him from behind and tell him, come, run with me? What do you mean? Leave him alone. Love him, be happy with him, be a good wife to him, and leave him alone. So this is something you'll understand. One of the best lessons you must get is tolerance and leave to the others. You love freedom of deciding and having what they want to have. Say, can a woman live with a man or a man live with a woman with different interests in life? Why not? Each one will get his lessons in this life, in his own way. Not in our way. Sir, my sister must attend the lessons. I come for six months now to the lessons. I had this before some days. And, of course, her interests are different. I went, what's wrong with that? No, she must just follow the lessons. I said, I went, bring her to the lesson. Next time, force her to come to the lesson and her mind will be loitering on her own interests. No, she will be interested in the lesson again. She, that you put on your shoes and come to us. I said, no. Have my shoes? Yes. But her foot is bigger than mine. How can she put on my shoes and come? That's what you try to do. Why put her feet in your shoes to come? You shouldn't do that. Let her put on her shoes and go her own way. And you go your own way. But she is losing time. Who taught you that you are gaining time? Who taught you that she will not improve in her own way? It's something else you should know. The only way is not our way. Life is giving to everybody the lessons and experiences they need now. So, don't force anybody. Speak and wait. Attend. They are asking for help. Give it. If they don't, leave them alone. Maybe they are happier in that way. Don't try to force anybody to follow you. But love them all all the same. It doesn't mean that because people are not following us we should love them less. That's the difference. We should love all the same. But be tolerant and patient. Of course you want to help them. 2- Out of the Labyrinth and into the light I Now, we have two ways, nature and ourself. What is a human being now? We are human beings, but what is a human being? They said, starting a man or a woman, the life in their bodies, we know what is a woman or a man in their bodies, in their material bodies. But what about the character? Can you know all male or all female persons by studying Mary or George? No. Now, we have to study what is the self in a personality. You have to study now this kind of self, colored, not bright color, but colored. Study that. And start to separate what is common and what is personal. Now, this is interesting us now. We leave nature around us for the time being, though a seeker of the truth is doing both. By observation, studying and using the mind, he is studying everything taking place around him. Because unless he will do that on the material plane, he will not just have that tendency of observing things in the other planes. Don't think by studying a book or yoga, just knowing that there are centers on the material body, or rather on the etheric double of the material body, called chakras. We call them centers of energy. And opening them, and this and that, you will be self- conscious in the psychical plane. Nothing more misleading and stupid. Because I have seen many, many people who happen to get a book on yoga from this, trying, as they say, to wake up their chakras, who became neurasthenic. We are getting many, many letters for the day. Oh, it has opened the Kundalini, or that, and that, and that, and that. And what I see is forms of schizophrenia. These things lead to schizophrenia and neurasthenia. Not that these centers do not exist, they do exist, but it is under the authority of the holy archangels of the creation, doing the whole work. And the seekers of the truth should be serious to observe this creative work in their bodies, and then understand and cooperate with them. And not just try to violate the laws of nature. So, it is by observation, introspection, and using the mind in the proper way that you can find yourself self-conscious in the psychical plane. And make what we call exosomatosis, meaning knowing, having the self-consciousness independent from the material body, and not by other means, which are leading, I said, to neurasthenia. So, these are the means we will be using. Our divine nature of observation, and learning how to use the super-substance of the mind, the greatest gift given to human beings by the Father God, so that we just see the truth and proceed now with reverence. Because nature, even the material plane, for a true seeker of the truth, is a church, a temple of God, and should live just in a serious way of studying and understanding the ways of the absolute infinite beingness, if God is tempting some, the creators, and the creator. So, what is the duty of every reasonable human being? And what human beings calling themselves intelligent and reasonable today are doing? Joshua Manuel de Christ spoke about all these things. He said, what is the nature of a human being now, as a man or a woman, being born, growing, growing, growing, and what? In growing, as a man or a woman, in their environment, in their family, in their home, in their society, are to do to increase within them that feeling of possessiveness, catching, getting, and calling that and that thing their own? Now, by observation, we will find out what creates this feeling of ownership and enslaving the mind in this, I'll call it tendency, not to say desire. You must understand the difference between these two words. In this way, we start to study the character of the human beings, not only one, all of them, because all of them are under the same influences, under the same impressions, living today. So we have just to say, what is desire? What is the human body? We have to study the human body. By studying the human body and the total wisdom of the Holy Archangels of Creation working in our material body. Just study this thing, a book on anatomy. What do we find out? That we are not the human body. Because the human body of any human being, man or a woman, is the same always. The same is the body of a woman with the bodies of every other woman. It is the same the body of a man with the bodies of every other man. It is shorter, taller, that plays no difference. You know what is a male person? You know what is a female person? This is the common thing in human beings. But now we are coming to another branch of study. I don't say that we will leave that behind, not study it. The same way we are studying what is going on in the nature all around us. That our nature, divine nature of observation, we should use it any moment. To use it in what we call waking consciousness. Now, and just get the habit of using it during the time your present personality is sleeping, going to the other dimensions. So, what is now desire? And what is this desire doing? Is desire always a sin? A necessity? You have just to study it. You should not just jump from impression to impression and reach to wrong conclusions. You have to study the nature of desire. What it is? It is our so-called psychical body. We find our psychical body. And what we find? That we are using this psychical body all the time, subconsciously, without knowing its existence. But using it. And being under its influence. So we have to wake up. Know who we are and get control of this psychical body. But you cannot do that unless you have mastered already the physical body. Studying what is the physical body. Who am I? And what I am in that material body, using it. So I shall study the nature of other bodies, of the psychical body. So I have to just step by step using the observation and the reasonable thinking as meditation, to know as much as I can know of the relative truth concerning the matter I am studying. So a seeker of the truth should study what is desire. You say, what is desire now? I am telling you. Both an angel and a devil. And who is making that angel a devil? You. By becoming a devil, you make it a devil. But being or becoming an angel, it is an angel. So the desire is a mirror in which you reflect your own self. But now we come to another confusing point. Which self? But is that image I see in this mirror of desire really my self? Because we will not extend on this matter now. I say, by studying, I find that similar to this kind of expression of a personality I call desire, I see that combined to it is the way of thinking. And you find out that you have been misusing subconsciously this divine gift of the mind as thought and slaving it to the desires. That is making the desire a devil. Under the reasonable thinking of a reasonable being it is a blessing. It is a necessity and not a curse. Then I find out that apart from what I call desire, now studying the psychical body which has its form because everything to exist must have a form. I see that I find myself in another body. What we call the nautical body. The mind body. I can't just use the word mind body because in mind body I have also the nautical not only the nautical body. The higher mental as some people call it. So we have just to study its nature and what it is. What is the mind? Not now the mind as the super substance but as I made it part of myself. My mind. I got a drop of this mind from the ocean of the mind they have colored it now in a hot way. Of my present personality. My weaknesses, my vices, my virtues. Many, many things. So now myself using again observation and the right thinking by coloring the mind and seeing what is behind the mind as my desire. What do I find? My own personality. Now here is the critical point. My own personality. But who is doing it and what is that my present day personality as mind and emotion? Then you separate yourself from that. I was making the mistake to think that that kind of personality the sinful personality the transgressing personality is not the reality myself. I am something else. Then you feel dual while you are one. You make the mistake that your so-called egoism of the personality is yourself. But it is not yourself. Now you are reasoning. Now we give exercises which make you by introspection observation and meditation to separate this petty call it selfhood which is the present day personality from your real self. Your real majestic divine self which is God, you. Not God in you, but you. Then it is the time to understand who you are as a soul self. Now studying the personality you can study your petty self as a man or as a woman in the phenomenon of life. But now reaching this point finding your soul self there is no sex there. When they have asked Christ once Who are you? He didn't say I am Joshua, Emmanuel I am a human being. He had shown how to think. He said to the Jews in Aramaic I am what I am. And in Greek because he was speaking the Greek language being a sin himself. The mother language of Christ was Greek and Aramaic. He was speaking as the soul and the soul of a male or a female person has no sex. But it's an archangel. It is that kind of self we should find as being ourselves that self disentangling our real self from the image we see in the mirror of emotion and of thought. And what is God doing to us every few years? We see as ourselves a distorted image of ourselves in the threefold mirror of matter, emotion and thought. You look at it. You have to clean that mirror to see yourself. You see it much distorted. You see it now like a monster. Looking there you make the mistake to see I am that. The desires, the weaknesses, the emotions the thoughts on this or that matter like that. God is breaking those threefold mirrors every few years. Is God evil or most merciful? Most merciful. To make us sleep, see better and clearer and then giving us another mirror and another mirror and another mirror to make it more clean. We have to make it clean to see ourselves reflected in it properly. That means incarnation. So, what is the real gain of a seeker of the truth? Man or a woman? To find the real self. To find the self reflected on the mirror and not make the mistake that the image in the mirror is the self. And one of the aims of the seeker of the truth is just to annihilate his personal egoism because unless the personal egoism is exterminated annihilated the real self, the son of the real self will not arise. And you will make the mistake that you are desires you are thoughts, you are emotions. When I gave this lesson before some years to the inner circle a fellow who is a poet told me, you know, you have destroyed everything good in me. I said, why? You deprived me of my emotions and of my thoughts. What remains to me? I said, your own self remains to you. Just find that self and you will understand that you are not losing anything. You are gaining everything. Because you think what you are gaining just because you, the self as the sun shine there and you know you get notice of what you see. Be the sun yourself and you can have everything. Know what is what Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said the kingdom of the heavens which is in us. He described them. And what did he say? Seek the kingdom of the heavens and you are losing everything. Did he say that? No. Seek the kingdom of the heavens and everything is yours. It is a great mistake to think that reaching that stage it means throwing away everything. It is just clear that you have different now things to love. Higher things to love. That's true. And things that now are interesting you will not mean much to you. But reaching that, everything is yours. Seek the kingdom of the heavens and everything will be added to you. Everything. And you have to select. Suppose you are a child, a boy and you have marbles playing and playing and playing and collecting stamps and getting stamps and you make a nice book with collection of stamps and you grow up. You don't need anymore collecting stamps. Now you are collecting money. Banknotes. Pieces of paper which are called money. For me it is not much of a difference. But there is a difference for the people. Collecting stamps and now collecting money. But as one day this fellow now collecting money and banknotes and everything those stamps mean nothing to him. Believe me someday when you have the heavenly things all these things on the material plane will mean nothing to you. So you are not losing anything. You are gaining everything. Well, am I losing all this? Who is just depriving a millionaire to get again the book of his stamps and enjoy his stamps if he wishes to? Nobody. You don't need to throw away things. You can have everything. What you are losing is the fascination of things. And what did the Lord Buddha Bodhisattva Buddha was teaching? Disentangling yourself from the illusions. But do now Buddhists know the truth that this great Lord and Master had taught the world? Disattachment? I don't believe that all of them know it. As all Christians, most of the Christians have lost the sense and the truth in Christianity so the Buddhists have lost most of them the real teaching and sense of Buddha. Because if you know the truth behind the teachings of both the Lord Buddha the Enlightened One and Joshua the Christ, the God-man it's the same thing. The same truth revealed. A fellow Buddhist one day taught me Oh, pity you are not a Buddhist, sir. And you are a Christian. I said, who taught you I am not a Buddhist? He said, are you a Buddhist? I said, definitely I am. There may be better Buddhists than you are. But are you not a Christian? Of course I am a Christian. But now I don't see any difference in the truth. Truth is not the monopoly of certain people colouring it according to their ideas. So the seeker of the truth should see the truth as it is. What is the truth? God is love. Just under this light you can see clearer everything. When the sun of love rises you can see everything nicely. If there is darkness and you go with a candle in your hand a coloured candle, you will see things in a different way. In your own way. So, wisdom comes to a human being every human being if he or she wishes to see the truth by observation making reasonable use of the mind concentrating on the things one wants to study but freeing himself at that time from all illusions and attachments on things influencing him or her. That means taking away the personal egos. What do I call this work? The system of the seekers of the truth the science of sciences because the highest science is to know the self the expression of the self the local self and our place in that kind of selfhood and just clean. Now somebody says shall we give up our so-called personal self, the egoism? I say no. Annihilate its expression because in it to exist as egoism in a person as part of it as yourself you are that and you are not What you are not, take it away and live what you are. Now it is difficult to understand that before exercising separating the real self, its nature from its expression. Tomorrow the lesson will be more on the use of the mind. I will make an exercise. Relax completely your material body Relaxing it shows that you are a god and that material body of yours given to you feeling you are living in it is yours now make it yours. The holy archangels creating this material body and everything most wisely in the material body will not object, calling it yours but deserve to be the master of this material body. Feel that you are in the material body relaxing it completely absolute relaxation you are breathing now breathing deeply but comfortably you can select the rhythm of your breathing breathe deeply and the time you are breathing feel you are in the lungs but at the same time you are feeling you are in the lungs you can feel you can be everywhere in your body the air and the oxygen is going only in the lungs in and out but something else you are feeling that is your etheric double the whole body the time now you are breathing and the air is confined only in the lungs getting in and out you can feel the whole body be in your whole body in the fingers, in the face, in the feet everywhere feel now you are in the body and feel that is yours also this is the etheric double you are concentrated on the aesthetic or feeling giving ether it is not only the air and oxygen that matters but also the etheric vitality you are using it subconsciously now you can use it consciously just feel in your body you are breathing oxygen etheric vitality and God, Life you are breathing etheric vitality and through the lungs but at the same time you breathe it with your whole etheric double feeling it you feel it this is the super substance of the mind uncolored now what I tell you is rather difficult and it needs much practice but I will say that and feel it we are in God God is everywhere in us out of our bodies and in our bodies feel it I don't say him feel God as the highest intelligence to which you can attune yourself enjoying total wisdom its almightyness its total love that he understands and he feels what you are feeling now it is stupid to believe that the one who gave you the eyes to see is not seeing the one who gave you the ears to hear is not hearing the one who gave you that handful of matter you call brains to think with is not thinking you can talk to him, he is talking to you just listen Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, the God man spreading his hands out to the Essenes was saying I am the Lord you are God in you you are God in you you are beingness and the locals were saying I am the Lord, you are God in you you are a human being self just enjoy that human beingness self try to understand what is life what is you are soul in life and free yourself from the false impression that you are an isolated personality having a name of a man or a woman Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said you are God's offsprings of the infinite Father find your immortal everlasting self life those who believe in me and know me will taste no death but will live in eternity breathe deeply comfortably feel your heart and clean it to reflect love nothing except love love to all human beings 2- Out of the Labyrinth and into the light II Now, there is something we should make it clear so that we will not make a mistake. If one who represents a personality that petty person, with a name, male or female, no, our real self can do that, will spread and raise itself to these dimensions of the self, real self, now super-consciousness, is reaching those heights in himself, in the kingdom of the heavens, which is in us, in our own nature, he enters, in what I would say, the eternal present, eternal now. He frees himself from the limitations of what we call time as past, present and future. Now, I define them well, but it is very difficult for you to grasp the idea. Unless you reach that stage yourself, because by words, and even reading books and all that, you cannot know anything, unless you know it yourself. I will give just an example which I have given many, many times. If I try to explain to you I have got something solved. How can I do that? If I present to you volumes of books of scientists, H2, H3, mixing that and that it gives something solved and like that. Read as many books as you like. Many of you have read many occult books of the East until now and you found out nothing. So, it is not reading or hearing or being taught of things, that you learn them. So volumes and volumes of books cannot tell you what is something solved. But if you come to me and I have just a little sword somewhere here, I tell you, just put your finger on your tongue, make it wet, put it on this sword, put it back on your tongue and I will tell you now what is solved. You will say, now I know what is something solved. Why? Because you have experienced it. So I am telling you, teachers, gurus, masters, religion, everything are nothing but guides leading you somewhere. You have to know personally, otherwise nobody can explain to you more. And Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said, know the truth, you, you must know the truth. Know the truth and the truth will set you free from illusions. Not the teaching of others. I can say that whatever we have is not valuable. Valuable to guide you somewhere, but that is not enough. You have to realize what it is in it. Reject it if it is not worthy. Experiencing it and knowing it or accepting it. And by accepting it is not enough. Practice and by practicing you will know. It is by putting your finger on the tongue, on the sword and then back again that you know what is something solved. Nobody can explain to you otherwise. You are right, tell us how is that. That is a very, very nice example. How can we come to this experience you are saying? I have given it many, many times. By certain exercises in meditation. Always be careful in what I call observation. Using the mind properly in the proper meditation. Reaching this, this is what we call inspiration. Ecstasy, contemplation, then you come to the understanding. Yourself, you know what is everything as it is and you know who you are now. Then you take out of yourself that dirty, very dirty sometimes, what you are wearing, considering it yourself, which I call personal egoism. You throw it away. Now I am clean and I know who I am now. With that caught, rubbing yourself, you have the idea of death. Because sooner or later you have to cast it out. As long as you consider the caught as it is yourself, you will be afraid of the idea of death. But when you take it out, you know you are immortal. You know that you are God. Now I had a certain question from somebody. Do I take off that dirty caught? You say we call it egoism. Egoism is not the personality. By the death of the material body? Is the caught of egoism the material body? I say no it isn't. It is something different. Because you carry it with you in the psychic plane. And that caught is leading either to your paradise, to your shell paradise, or to your shell hell. So you don't cast the egoism so easily. Even by casting away from the self the material body. Do I cast this personality, egoism, the illusion about the self, in the psychical plane? Yes, you will. The heavy caught you can cast away, but you have another one under it. Again belonging to the egoism. You have to take that out also. Which is what I call the body of emotions. So you are not free even in what I call the psychical plane. Because in the psychical plane you have the shell paradises and the shell hells. You are in it, in them. Shell, because they resemble a shell, wearing a coat, an overcoat, then a coat. Well, we take that out also. There is a shirt now, which may not be white. It might be white, clean, but it may not be white. Shirt, which is the nautical body. You have to take that out also to feel naked and God. So, don't think that by what we call death of the material body. You are free. You are not. Because there is the psychical world and in between the psychical world and the material world is the ethereal world. We don't stay there. We just pass from there. But we stay in the psychical world. And you have just to be under the same troubles as you are on the material plane. Then, there, but now we are there also. We are living at the same time. We are living in our material body. More we are living in our psychical world, in our psychical shell, in our psychical body. It is not a matter now of changing place in space, but it is changing dimensions. We are going from the third dimensional place, space, to what I call the fourth dimensional sense of place, not space, in which, of course, plastic thing there. You find out that space, the idea of space, is gone away. Yet it is giving the sense of a place, good or bad, hell or paradise. But I said in a lesson that nobody would find himself after casting away his material body to any hell or any paradise. He is not already now. When we pass over to the other side, don't think that there are certain archangels and angels accusing us and devils catching us to classify us in this kind of hell or in this just pleasure-giving paradise. No! The archangels of the elements are loving us, are working for us to provide us with our material body. We are our psychical body and we are our ethical body. They are working. They are helping us. They are loving us. They are not accusing us. Who is accusing us? Our own self is accusing us. This is the real truth. So, one finds himself or herself just where he or she is already, only casting out the material body. So, it is not a place. We can just define the so-called psychical world of our planet. Of course it is. The whole planet and many, many, many thousands of kilometers around it. But it doesn't touch any other psychical world of another heavenly body of our solar system. The psychical world. And where is the nautical world? In us. We are in it now. We are using the super-substance of the mind. We are living now at the same time in the nautical world. But studying it, we call it psycho-nautical because there cannot be emotions and desires unless there is mind in it. That's why in certain books you will find psycho-nautical, not only psychical. And if we separate it, it is just to study them separately. So, our hell or our paradise, our self-hell or self-paradise is composed of nautical mind-substance and psychical substance. Now, in us. And Joshua Manuel de Christ said, The kingdom of the heavens is in you. He didn't locate any place in space. In you. Now it's the most difficult problem. In us. Where is that in us? We know ourselves just as a limited mass of matter. We call it the material body. What do we know of our psychical body? I wish I could explain to you more, but you will not understand because there are not words to explain. And what is the nautical body? Again, I come to the example. You have to put your finger on your tongue and taste it and know what it is. You live, you learn to live, what I call, self-consciously. In the psychical world, with the psychical body, you will never be able to know what is the psychical body. You can know much about the material body, just getting a book of anatomy, you can know much about it. But all this is to know much about the psychical body of yours, before you live in it, you shape it, you make it just an independent from the material body vehicle for expressing yourself. And this is the work of a seeker of the truth. The same thing will happen with your nautical body. What I can already tell you is that both the nautical body and the psychical body have a form, because nothing can exist without having a form. A form. But what is a form now? A form is a phenomenon in the material world. But what is that form of myself in the psychical world? What kind of space it occupies? It's very hard to think of it. What is it? As you are using the material body subconsciously without knowing it, you are using already, subconsciously, your psychical body. If a fellow passes away, I had many times this experience, just experiences, passes over. I had this. And three sons, the one is in Australia, the other is in England, and the other is in America, and they just want to communicate with their father who has passed over. Of course, they just calculate the time to coincide at the same time. They go to experts who call them mediums, and the father is talking with the three of them at the same time. Where was he at that moment? In Australia? In England? In America? I had this experience. He was speaking and talking, revealing secrets which they didn't know to them, to the three of them, about the existence of some world he has hidden, to go and get it. They got it. They came and they found it in Cyprus. We communicated with him, asking him, Did you see your sons? Yes, of course, they came to me. Came to me. Where? They came to him. Where were you? In his cell room, in the psychical plane. He thinks they came to him. Well, of course, they revealed this to some of the priests that told them it was the devil. It was not your father who spoke to you. But our father had revealed to us that he had a bag of gold and we went and found it. Yes, the devil can do that. They have asked me, was it our father? I said, definitely it was your father. But where did he find us? I said, it's difficult to explain to you what it means place in the psychical plane, and what it means place in the material plane. You will never understand unless you know what is the difference between the three- dimensional world and the four-dimensional world. It doesn't only need the mind and meditation, but observation, much observation. Never jump from conclusions to conclusions, ideas from ideas, unless you are sure, because as there are physical laws on the material plane, there are psychical laws in the psychical plane and ethical laws in the ethical plane. And all the realms of existence, because these are worlds of existence, are well ruled by this absolute, infinite, super-intentional intelligence we call the locus, God. These two expressions, as we can understand, as El Shaddai, locus, O Shekinah, that means Holy Spirit. I am using the words, Jesus Christ, Joshua was using, addressing the Jews. This is Aramaic. So, you find everywhere order, in all the worlds. A real seeker of the truth, seeing all that, approaches these things with much reverence, because he knows, if you ask him, who is God, what is God, he will say, I know what is God, in me, in you, and everywhere. Unfortunately, the first Christians, of course the Apostles, writing the Gospels, in the Greek language, all of them, only a few parts of the Gospels according to Matthew is written in Aramaic, have taken out many great truths. But you can find them in the Cosmic Consciousness. You can contact Joshua Emmanuel the Christ now, because he is here, everywhere, in us. It is just only raising our petty little self-consciousness now to our real self- superconsciousness. You can see it. When Joshua Emmanuel the Christ was preaching, stretching out his hands, saying to all of them, feeling himself as the El Shaddai, the Logos says, my most beloved ones, offsprings of mine. Now they leave something and they have taken out something else. And he says, I am the Lord. You are God in you. You are being. You are being self. You will love me, the Lord, in you as you are being, and love me as the being of every other human being around you. That is why Jesus said, we are all. He was guiding us to the common Logos selfhood. Taking us out from the just bad smelling mud of this so-called self-consciousness in the world of separateness. We enter in a different now condition of life. Now, we will not make the mistake that many Buddhists are making this mistake. It is growing. Our present day personality will have so much. Losing it. Not it. It is influences we are losing. The time and place, impressions we are losing. Not the real, even petty self receiving the impressions. We are not losing it. But finding the Kingdom of the Heaven which is in us, everything will be granted to us. We are not going to lose even our present day personality as Mary, Helen, George, and Alex. Because when you reach that absolute selfhood in those things, you know what you are as God. You know what you are in those printed realms. But if somebody will ask you, who are you? You will say, I will not explain to you who I am because you will not understand. But I will tell you, I am that fellow because that you will understand. Because that you know. I am not losing even my personality. And a proof of it, when you reach that stage, you remember all your past incarnations. Names, thoughts, way of living. Which means you are not losing anything. You are gaining everything. So reaching those, I will call it stages, degrees of splendor, you know everything. Because God knows everything. And you are God. I don't say you are becoming God. You are not going to become something you are not. Now you realise what you are. I wish I would be allowed to speak more on these things, but Jokernan is not a good thing to say more. Not that he is keeping secret things. You will not understand and you will be more confused. So I am asking now again, what is life? What I do is just show the way. Show the way which means you will have that will, I don't call it desire, to go that way. He said, I am the way. I am the life and truth. So, he had shown the way. One can show you the way. Don't expect that one will get you on his shoulders and carry you. Because this is what most of the people want to from someone guiding them to do. They tell you, masters, gurus, call them what you like. Avatars, call them what you like. Can be only guides. Even books. Guides. You have to cover this way and go. And this way is. I put it now in the right way. Instead of using the mind in the wrong way, now enslaving it in the desires and in the emotions, making that slave of your time and place, stupid egoism, personal egoism, free it, and you now, not influenced by your material personal egoism, start using it in the proper way. Use it as a mirror, first of all, to see you are yourself reflected in it. Everything concerning the self, who you are, what you are. What you do is just do it using your own nature, the willpower, and observation. Now, using the mind as the proper meditation in introspection again, all the time you have to see everything according to a sort of observation. Nothing must escape from you. And then you will find the way. When you find the way, yes. There you can find what the writers call happiness. There is no such thing as happiness in the material world, or in the psychical world, or in the nautical world. Yes, in these worlds you will find hells and paradises of our own creation. We have to play. The Mount Super Substance is the greatest gift given to the human beings by the Father. Now we must know how to make good use of it. Maybe studying the parable of the prodigal son, that will mean something to you. Now we will make an exercise. We are using all the time the mind subconsciously. Now we will use the mind consciously. Not yet self-consciously. Consciously. By using what I call visualization. It is not a difficult thing to do. It is inside the present personality. You can bring in your mind, that means by visualization seeing, a person you love very much or a person you don't like much and you have differences with that person. So subconsciously now you can use what I call visualization. Now, relax completely the material body. Relax completely your emotional body. Which means all differences you have with certain persons, silence them down. If you bring certain persons by visualization before your mind, in your mind, then your psychical body will start its violent vibrations and then things which are in you will get up in the surface, that hatred, anger and many many things and you say to yourself, don't mention me that fellow, it makes me angry. That's what I mean. Silence down the emotional body and bring fellows with whom you have differences in front of you. Be calm, quiet. See that fellow, calm that fellow down because that fellow now in your imagination is attached to that fellow. See from your heart light, golden light and rosy light, lighting everything around you and see that light lighting the face of that fellow, one or more it doesn't matter how many you bring and see that fellow under that light of your heart, which is not your light, it is of the light of the world. I am the light of the world, which is love. See that face happy, smiling to you and then express yourself in words mentally, I love you, because you are a goddess I am one. Never mind that we both have mistakes and we are under delusions of time and space. I love you. Never mind, I said that we have differences, we are not going again to mix up ourselves with those differences. You are simply now in higher realms expressing you, my divine nature to your divine nature. I tell you I love you. Do that every day. For certain people you have certain differences whether you are right or you are not right, they are right or they are not right that doesn't matter. Differences do exist and you can put down the fire by water love and not by fire, which is hating. That doesn't mean you undertake the obligation of approach again and having your time and place personalities fight again No need. You are a self now you don't need any meeting with those fellows on the material plane Now, if you think you could cope with this case again and the differences will go away by doing that you may influence that fellow and approach you That's a different matter if you want just to settle up your debts between you. But many people are not yet ready but send love, the love of God in you to your brother in you, because having him in your mind by visualization, is in you Hating him, the hatred is in you and hating is a very very bad poison which is killing even your material bodies That's why Joshua Banner of the Christ said, love your enemies They may consider themselves your enemies, but you will not have enemies You have only loving brothers and sisters under the influence of illusions in the three dimensional world we are living in. Our next lesson will be on next Monday for those who will be here in Cyprus 2- Shadows of the Light Now I get from the mind of some of you this question and I will answer it. Because it happens that you have some enemies, who may be, who are hating you very much, fighting you very much, and you are just in clash with them. This happens, of course. The question is, in your minds, are there not human beings living in a human body, any of the fallen ones? I say, no! They are not allowed. A human being is God. The fallen ones can from time to time influence the personality of a man. The personality of a man is created, and that is the work of the archangels, not of the evil ones. The evil ones, what they can do is only to influence the little personality of a man in going their way for some time. No human being living in a human body is a demon. That's true. But even demons, secondary I would say demons, can get possession even of the material body. What is the secondary demons? Once they are influencing a human being, a human being living his own life and using the mind creates elementals. And all those elementals have power on the material body of those who have created them. So, all the demons, we call them demons, not the fallen ones, not the evil ones, which have possessed human bodies at the time of Christ, and casting them out were elementals of those very persons. And, of course, giving lessons on the elementals, how they are created, how they behave, even Joshua the Christ had described them. He said the evil spirits, calling them evil spirits, without any creative contents in it, it comes out from the man as a desire, as a desire for form. Because he says in waterless places, of course, he is speaking in parables, and returns back to its home, carrying with it, it says, seven, because he has to pass through the seven shadows of the evil ones. They are right to do it. Bring the other seven spirits in that fellow. Read it in the New Testament, in the Bible, the behavior of those called elementals or evil spirits. So, those, only those created by the personality of a man can come and dominate only on the personality of a man. Because casting them away, the fellow was alright. So, that fellow was demon possessed, was responsible for those demon elementals which got hold of his body and his personality. But when we free ourselves from them, we are ourselves and not the demons. So, we give a lesson, many times we have given it on elementals. So, you say, but what is the difference between a demon fallen one and a demon elemental? Of course, there is a great difference. Because the fallen ones are immortal. Sooner or later, they have to return back home. And Saint Paul is describing it in one of his letters, in the restoration of everything. He has to, because they are sons of God. Now, influenced by their own pride, which created this darkness around them. And there is not any enmity between the beingness and this kind of demons. There is not any hostility. There is not any fight. It is wrong to believe that the infinite absolute beingness as the Logos is fighting the demons. No. Because fighting them, it means that it is in love. Let me put you some other thing. Do demons love God? Yes, they do. But they are influenced by their own self-centering feeling of being at least equal to God. And this is creating in them what we call the fall. And what is the fall? They deprive themselves, not God, from the power of creating, which a human being and animals do have. So, the reply is, no human being is a fallen one or a demon. A human being can be influenced by his own creation, the elementals, according to the life he was living. Another one. Behavior of a human being in a previous incarnation is not bringing in a new incarnation those elementals active because that would not give him or her the chance to progress. But in the new person incarnated, it is the tendency, but the power to resist it. It is what we said before. And the mind is given to the human beings to use it. And using the mind, not only one can resist, but also can get out of all this wild circle. So again, what is the duty of a seeker of the truth? A man or a woman? Using the mind, it is his or her right. The mind is giving plentiful to him. To try using the mind to study by observation, which is its nature. Meditation, that means using the reason. Observation, concentration. They are not difficult things. It needs only practice and the will to do that. To see the light or the truth. In what? In his or her own behavior. And then create an elemental. I call it a burning why. Burning why have I done that? Why is that? Is it correct to be that? Is that wrong? In everyone, man or a man, there is the balance of the sense of good or evil. It is our nature. Just to give that to the present day personality of ourselves. So, there is no excuse. Only just decide to meditate, to observe and come to conclusions. Of course, definitely, I said, there is a mantle around us. A veil around us. A shadow. Not of complete darkness. That is our personality's egoism. Because the egoism is just the creation of the Lord of the world of separateness. So, by right thinking, on our behavior, on our way of thinking, feeling, and acting, and studying the nature of the other human beings around us. Studying our relations with all those human beings around us, whether they are members of our family or not. If we love a father, a mother, a son, a daughter, or anything more than the truth, we are not worthy of the truth, said Christ. And he had been misunderstood by what he said. Because all the time, you may love your father and your mother, and your children, and fight with them. Both of you will be in that vile circle of quarreling. What's the use? When one is giving up a father, a mother, or a son, or a daughter, all give him, he said, thousands of fathers, mothers, and so on. Which means, when you understand that you are father, you are mother, you are father, you are son, you are daughter, it's a spirit, soul, ego, and not flesh. And weaknesses, like yours, in fighting, and insisting that you love them and they love you. Quarreling and reconciling. Can you feel that? All around you. In nature, you are father, and you are mother, and you are son, and you are daughter. This is what he meant. And the way they presented it, it's greatly misunderstood. So, by reasoning, usually by introspection, we'll find that we are getting out of the world of separateness. Because in the kingdom of the heavens, the personal egoism cannot enter. And that's why that personal egoism, the sum total of the elementals we have created, and they are in our personality, does not like us to enter in the kingdom of the heavens, which is in us, in our own nature, spirit, soul, ego. Even the personal egoism of a man is depriving that man to think that he is an immortal soul. So, the duty, first of all, is to get rid of the veil of shadow or darkness, which is your personal egoism. And when you do that, then you see clearly the spirit, soul, egos of your own people, and of everyone around you. Because now, we cannot see clearly. Now, if somebody would come and tell you, you are quarreling with your mother, with your son, with your daughter, what do you know of them? That's how they appear. The surface only, a name, and a way of behaving. What do you know of your own people? Do you know anything more, now? And then you call them, my son, my mother, my father, and when they are out of the material body, the body of the continual change, you think you are losing them. You never thought that they are a human form, and in it, a God just like you. All people, when relations are passing out in the other side of the world, they have the feeling that they are losing them. This is not true. If you know who you are, and you develop your self-consciousness to higher levels, first of all, you understand that there is no such a thing as death. Because you will be able, self-consciously, to come out of the body and back again, and then you say, oh, what they call death is not to come back in this body of mine, I don't need it anymore. Because the body is getting old. So, then you understand that you are never losing your beloved ones. Those who pass away, do they think that they are losing the living ones? No! Because the living ones cannot communicate with the ones who pass in the other side. Other side where? Here! It's the difference in the vibrations of that world, because that world is the world of the four dimensions. This is the world of the three dimensions, occupying the same place-space. So, when you reach to this truth, then you see your own beloved ones as they really are, not as you think they are. Because you see yourself as you really are now, not as you think you are. When one would ask you, what are you? You all the time complain that you are a weak person, not having the willpower, and all that. In every thousand people, 999 are complaining, because they don't know the truth. They all find something to complain. Because they don't know who they are. It's because they don't know what they are. Complaining for what? For the behavior of all around them, because they cannot understand them. And of their own people, because they don't know what their own people themselves are, and what is the world of separateness. So, we are living now in the material world, in a world of illusions. We have shown that many, many times. What you conceive, what you see around you, is not what it is really, but in what way you understand it. And starting by observation, our real divine nature, you find out that things are not as they appear to be. So, by observation and using the mind, attention I might call it, you reach the truth. You understand that life is divine. You are life. You are not only living as a phenomenal life, as the animal life around you, or the vegetable life. You are life, because you can express a self-consciousness. But then if I ask you now, self-consciousness, are you sure you are self-conscious? They tell you, no. Because what you consider and say, self, is a time and place, expression of a self, wrapped heavily or more, like with the shadows of the fallen ones. Desires, unbridled desires, emotions, the reactions from your behavior, which is hatred, malice, feeling of aggression and all that. Now, the seeker of the truth has to study all these things, in himself, himself, or around him. And using the reason, and the mind will find a way. The way leading where? To what I call real self, the self-realization. Find that you, not find you are self, you find that you are that self, divine, the everlasting life, living according to the will of the law, and the infinite, beingness, the locus, the various worlds, even of existence, as long as you want to live in the world of existence, billions and billions and billions of centuries. Christ said that he who eats his flesh and drinks his blood, which means becoming a human being with flesh and blood, from the locus, will have everlasting life as a human being. There is not any end or any prohibition in being reincarnated. At the beginning you will be reincarnated to pay your debts. The Hindus call it the law of karma. Christ says, whatever you shall sow, so you shall reap. But that is not all. You can come and get rewards. But now, will, spirit, soul, egos, would like to live always as human beings? It depends. Because when you find what you are as the self-ego, when you find out that yourself is God, when you find that that self can be omnipresent and not confined in a dungeon, foremost in a palace for many, I mean the material body and the personality, you see that there are other ways of life that maybe you would like to live that. But again, I am saying, the fallen ones will come as desires. You have to govern them again. To make it clear, when you reach to higher levels of self- consciousness, you have to find that in you is the power of attunement, the letter of attunement, which is something the fallen ones will never have. And even the archangels will not exercise even if they wish to have it. Which means you can feel being anything you like around you. Or feel that you are. You are becoming anything around you. Then you enter in the ranks of the creative archangels. Because maybe I am not allowed to speak more about it. And believe me, life in a human body is imprisoning a God, sending him in exile. No, he doesn't want to speak anymore of Yohannan. But believe me, it is in life. Life is much, much better. Well, your bodies are good. Make good use of them. Live a good life in your bodies, but develop, develop your piety, personality, self, to its own nature, which is the soul self- consciousness. You don't have just to lose anything. You have to gain everything. Now we will make an exercise. Those who come tomorrow, there will be the lesson more on the bodies. Relax completely. Relax the whole material body and just now think that in this body you are feeling you are in it and you call it yours, the Shekinah or the Holy Spirit, the total wisdom of the Father and the Locos and seven Orders of Archangels are working in it. A great honor. From all the Archangelic Orders in creation, the seven Orders of the Archangels in the creation, one from each Order is working in your bodies, in your material body. Michael, the Lord of Light, Fire and Heat, cooperating with Gavrilo, one Gavrilo in your body, the Lord of the Elements, and with Raphael, the Lord of the Ethereal Vitality, all mind in different grades of vibrations, are working, using the total wisdom of the Divine Plan to create in your body, the material body, the Red Warm Blood. What is the Red Warm Blood? Small independent living things. The blood cells. Again, atoms. Orthodox scientists will find out great truths now. But now we care about what we call the Red Blood. Loaded with what I call Vitality. Mind. Ethereal Vitality. What the Orthodox scientists found out? That each blood cell is doing a certain work and lives its own life. It has its own subconsciousness. You are a microcosm. What is going on in the macrocosm is going on in your body under the supervision of the locus. Moving through channels, arteries and veins and organs loaded with the Etheric Vitality coming from the Etheric Double. It goes around creating bones, flesh, nerves, tissues. So many things. According to the Divine Plan of the human body. Working properly, these Archangels. One from each of the seven orders. Working for you to live in this body. Breathing now. Deeply. The air you are breathing. The element of the air is not having only oxygen and what the Orthodox science says but it has also the mind vitality. Who is making your heart work and beat and feel it? You! Who? The locus. So you don't need to go far away to find the locus. You can find it in you. In your material body. Just that part of your heart is moving the blood. And the blood has to move through the arteries to feed all the organs of your body. And tired? Through the veins now return back to enter in the lungs. And in every breath of yours every cell in the lungs to be loaded again with etheric vitality. So in the air you are breathing and everywhere is the etheric vitality. The mind vitality. So that the Archangels will get that stuff. Let us call it stuff. And keep all the organs in your body in perfect order. If you stab a man with a knife on the thigh and create a wound the Holy Archangels will try to close it down and heal it. If you have a broken bone a broken rib and a foot that bone will join. These are things nobody can deny. You can see it every day around you. Thank the Holy Archangels for their work to create a body for you to live in it. That's not all the work. The El Shaddai or the Logos is working in you giving you your personality's selfhood. Allowing of course the fallen ones to rub it with shadows so that you will take them away. Be a burning question. What is that and what is that and I need an answer. Ask and it shall be given to you. Knock and it will be open to you. Even the kingdom of the heavens will be open to you but you have to knock. Use the divine gift of the mind's super substance. Just train yourself in visualization. This is the nature of your self. A soul. Find yourself in your body in your personality and in your God divine soul. Then life is worth living. When you understand that you are the life. Everything in your life may be good. Collecting things may be good. But Joshua had given a parable. A collector was collecting jewels. Good jewels. Until he found the most precious pearl. Then he said, I have everything and I am having it. And that precious pearl is your self. The self-realization. And when you find who you are you find out that you are powerful. You can express your divine qualities and divine nature. Preach now deeply. Now you know what is going on. The esoteric vitality of the mind is needed. In it are the archangels of the elements. Working for you. With your thought now your mind thank them. Preach deeply and thank them. If you do this exercise sometime you will see them. They will appear to you in human form. Because they are allowed to get the human form. Working on the human form to build your bodies. And great joy is to the angels in heaven. You are angels for one who returns back home to his own nature. They will guide you in the kingdom of the heavens which is in your spiritual self. I said create a burning question. A burning question. What does it mean? A fire. What does it mean? When Yohanan the Baptist has seen Christ, his cousin coming to him he said to his disciples I baptize you in water but he who is coming after me will baptize you in fire and in spirit. That burning question to know leads you to the baptism of fire. And this light fire can burn all the straw of material rubbish. Hatreds, envy and many many other vices. Amen. 2- Sight of the Soul - Our Many Gifts from God Now, if we reach that level, and being able now to enter in the cosmic mind, in the divine memory, which is in us also, in the kingdom of the heavens in us, and live again, say, a personality, which had been created by our spirit, soul, ego, self, and manifested, in time and place, in the past, a criminal, a Hitler, for example, or J. Angus Kahn. What happens? Remembering and knowing that that was you. It was, it's not you now. What happens? Living again those experiences. Here is the divine mercy of God, the most merciful. He is not allowing you to feel any pain. Remembering, yes, but feeling pain, no. How? This is divine mercy. I give just an example. Suppose you undergo an operation, very serious operation, painful operation, or giving birth, having a very bad birth. You had pain, much pain. After some time, you can remember, in every detail, what you have passed. Can you remember the pain? No. You can remember everything except the pain. The pain of the cross-material body. Now, if God is not allowing you to suffer and feel pain in the cross-material body, by remembering the pain you had in the past, will He remember you to feel psychical pain or neurotic pain? No. So, what is past for the divine super-intelligence is past. It's giving what we call experiences, and it's working in the coming out of what we call the divine plan. Now, suppose you have a child, and that child is doing much nonsense, just causing trouble, and grows up and grows up, and then he's a man. Will you remember what he has done during the childhood? No. No need for that. Because the super-intelligence we call God the Father is not having what we call punishing attitude towards his creatures. Creatures, because a human being is a creature. And when that creature reawakens himself into God, he's not going just to mention anything of the past. The Divine Father. Joshua Manuel has given a parable for that. The parable of the lost son. Really, that parable is most enlightening from many, many points of view. Which is, the youngest son had asked the Father, give me what is my share, what I can inherit. My substance, as it's written there, he got it and went away. He made very, very bad use of this so-called substance, which is in our case the mind, super-substance. He spent it, he says, with prostitutes, with sinners, gambling, using it, until he exhausted it. He became a poor fellow, not even having anything to eat, to use it as food for his personality. So he had to give himself to the ruler of that country, who had sent him to be the god of the swine. Which swine? The demon, the human demon elementals, which he is creating. I have mentioned about these elementals. So I have the lost son, making bad use of the mind, using it. Of course, the holy archangels have seen that. And of course, they are not so merciful as the Father. Our brother, this brother, he says, who went out, spent everything, everything, he came back to you. How you behave to him in this way, as most benevolent father? Just read this parable. It says, when this lost son, or prodigal son, starving, said, in the house of my father, there are hired servants, who have everything, elementals of the archangels, and I am starving. No, he receives the mind, he was starving, not using the mind now in the proper way, but keeping it as the swine, the human demon he had created, and feeling himself satisfied, and feeding himself even in the pots of the swine who are taking food. That means, contaminated mind through the swine, through the elementals. He said, no, I will come back to my father. Which means, sooner or later, what is divine, will become again divine. It will depart from the sinful time and place world of existence. So, deserting to go back, making a step towards the father, the father saw him and ran to him, embraced him, kissed him, brought him back. He said to his servants, bring him sandals to put on his bare feet. That means, to know now the way he has to walk on, the proper way. That means, giving him the sandals. Dress him the best suit he had before leaving the palace. Bring him the ring, a golden ring on his hand. Now you know what is time and the course of things in eternity. Something we call the archangels do not know. They don't have it. But, the fetid calf has to be sacrificed. That means, the human body, the flesh, has to be sacrificed. So that you will live now as a spirit, soul, ego, self. In your human form, because our human form is not the cross- material body. As the cross-material body gets the human form, so the human form is also in what we call the substance and the super substance, which is ether and light and spirit. So, we are not going to lose our form, our human form. Not our characteristics as personalities, but our real characteristics, our nature as spirit, soul, ego, self. So now, we have in our mind, sooner or later, wanting it or not, we will return back to our source, to our real nature, to the kingdom of the heavens, which is in us. Now, we are in the water of existence, and we have wrapped ourselves with veils of darkness or ignorance. Not knowing, in reality, who we are and what we are. Just hearing a name, male or female, and all the time living under the burden of our desires, emotions, intentions, vices, weaknesses, the way human beings are living today. But is that real life? No. So, I said in a lesson, what is common to every human being is the life. All of them are living, and by living, having in their personality and in their human bodies, the parts of life, from this point of view, all are divine. But now, each one living, is living now his or her own way of life, which is not the life in reality, but their own life, is the darkness and the illusions, which are given in the world of separateness, in the cross- material world, in the world of existence. All worlds of existence are not sinful. No. And all the worlds are good, have been created by the Holy Archangels, the Locos. Perfect, even the cross-material world is nice and perfect. It's a paradise. You can enjoy the paradise, if you have the paradise in you, of course. Even the cross-material world, everything is very nice, well sustained by the Holy Archangels. Mountains, oceans, life in them, trees, flowers, all the phenomena of life. Really, the cross-material world is a paradise. But to see it as a paradise, you must have a paradise in us. If a hell is created in us, a shell-hell, how can we enjoy this cross-material paradise? Likewise, in the tactical world, in and around our planet, and in the nautical world, nothing has been created by God, Allah, and the Holy Archangels, which is not perfect. But, can we see everything perfect ourselves? If we are not perfect ourselves? No. So, I'm telling you, all the planes and the sub-planes of the tactical world are nice and perfect. So, of the nautical world, as a locality and as landscapes, but you find them, in them you find, wrapped in their shell-hells, many shell-hells, created by the human demons in their personality. So, who is responsible for that? It's blasphemy to believe that God is or exists a God, punishing. No! God is most benevolent. If I give an example, two people stab each other with daggers, with knives, one is a criminal and the other is a saint, and they are both wounded. And you take them to a hospital, God the Father will do the best to close down the wounds of both, of the criminal and of the good fellow, and will just join broken bones to both. And God is sending His rain, says Joshua, both to the wicked and to the good. So, only men having wicked minds can conceive of a God who is wicked or revengeful. God the Father is loving or loved. So, God created the absolute infinite beingness, using the divine plan and the total wisdom of Himself and His Father, of the Holy Archangels, is most perfect. But the human beings, incarnated and humanized, had wrapped themselves in veils of darkness and of ignorance. Yet, yet, the Holy Father is granting to the human beings, even wicked, criminal, the mind to differ completely from the animals around them, from the ferocious animals around them. And even using the mind, the human beings subconsciously, they have changed the face of the planet from what it was. Buildings, cities, light, computers, and what not. Using subconsciously the mind. Just think, if the human being was using the mind now, self-consciously and super- consciously, can they do it in the future? Yes, of course, they will do it in the future. After how many centuries, does it matter? Have the whole eternity in front of us. Doesn't matter when. But, the destiny of a human being in the future, on this planet, is to live as God. A divine life, not a sinful human life. But even the divine life, why not be human? Since we have our human thought in the light, instead of in the clay and in the mud. So, now, what is the duty of a seeker of the truth? By using, even as a petty time and place personality, George or Mary, its latent inner nature, the divine nature of observation, and using now the mind and observation in the right way, find out ways to disentangle, to free the mind from being a slave of lower vibrations, which are desires, emotions, weaknesses, and many, many other expressions in life, making now good use of the mind. What can he not do? If, by being evil, he had done so much on the planet, the human being had changed much from the old times, in which we were killing each other, they do kill now each other again. So, by introspection, observation, and looking within, checking now what? The personality, starting from our own personality, then starting also the personalities of other people, to find the sources or the causes of the misery of a human being. What the enlightened ones said before, years, many, many years, even 500 years before the birth of Christ in Greece, in old Egypt, in India, Lord Buddha, that the main cause of evil is the false idea of desiring, creating an egoistic self, and having in mind of possessing. Possessing what? Things we did not create. We are creatures, we are not creators. So, the Lord Buddha had taught detachment, disattachment, how you call it? Disattachment or detachment? Had taught it. 500 years before the birth of Christ, that it is 2,500 years, did the Buddhists, all the Buddhists, have understood what the enlightened one was teaching them? Are they detached from desires? Not from selfishness, not from selfishness. We cannot criticize as Joshua said to criticize. Now, what about us? Joshua Manuel de Christ came and spoke clearly on these matters. More clearly than Buddha had taught. Not only he has taught everything, Joshua Manuel, but he has proved it. By his crucifixion, his resurrection, the resurrection of his body. He had proved it. So, what is the duty of a human being now? To what? Just start studying, by using observation as the divine nature of a soul, spirit, self. Because, seriously study our behavior. Study the nature of desire. From all points of view. Because desire, as the old Greeks had presented it in their myth, is the hydra of learning. A many, many headed serpent. It says, when Hercules went to kill it, that means the ego self, cutting off a head from the wound, two other heads were appearing. And this is what happens. If you overcome a desire, overcome a desire, how? Overcoming it. If it is fulfilled, it is neglected, and other desires appear immediately. If it is not fulfilled, it is still worse. It is keeping, what you call, certain wounds in your egoism self, which lead many, many times to revenge, enmity, aggression, weaknesses, passions. So, we have just to study. Each desire, we had. Each desire, we don't have now, and others have it. Seriously. How they are born? How they are developing? When they are fulfilled, what do they give this desire? Satisfaction? How much? The fatigue? Dissatisfaction? 80% of the desires, after fulfilled, are giving dissatisfaction instead of satisfaction, because one is feeling tired, that they were not worthy of so much pain and trouble. Even enjoying a desire, they feel tired. If not satisfied, what follows? So, I said, our divine nature is observation, and using the mind properly in understanding things. How? By taking away the human egoism. Your egoism for interfering, and just giving suggestions. Yes, but, you know, yes. Keep silent. I am studying now. I am thinking. I don't need your advice. So, the first thing in introspection is to put aside the human egoism. You are egoism, and you now are spirit, soul, self, free from influences, by time and place, circumstances, and the personal egoism, to see the truth. To see everything the light of truth. Now, using the mind properly, the mind will enlighten you. Then you will understand the value of what you call the mind. In what? In giving you clean thoughts. Enlightening thoughts. Extending itself in you, as what I call real vision. What I call ecstasy. Giving you the power of attunement to anything you like. In attunement to something, to know, you have to take aside the human egoism. You are egoism. And you will use it now as soul, ego, self. Not as a male or female person. So, we have to develop, first of all, our time and place personality, to transmute it, at least to some extent, to our soul, self, ego, self, the real being, to be able to see clearly things I want to see and know. What you find out? That thinking means having. What this means, you will never understand, if I tell you in words, unless you reach that stage, to exercise it and know it. So, again I repeat, I get from the minds of many people, how shall we become clairvoyant, that means medium, or clairvoyant, here, many, by just concentrating in another or somewhere else, may hear voices, and they will feel frightened, because they are not ready to see and understand what they hear. So, I say that nothing is more dangerous than spiritualism and mediumship, if you are not ready to know and understand what is what. So, the first thing, a seeker of the truth has to ask having, is the self-development, knowing the truth, and transmuting the present personality, being a man or a woman, into the real soul, individual self, which is neither man nor a woman, but a God. And then, as an ego, just answering to what you are saying, I am I, that I, with capital letters, then everything will be given to you. Joseph Emmanuel de Christ said, seek the kingdom of the heavens, become master of the psychical and nautical nature of yours and of the world, and everything will be added to you. Because, this is the real game. Now, he says, he gave another parable. A man was collecting precious stones, and when he found the most precious stone, he said, no, I don't want any other things. I will have this precious pearl, that's enough for me. Which is that precious pearl? A man found and bought, and became satisfied having it. Which is that precious pearl? Your ego self. To know who and what you are, as even a human being, but not a human egoist. Because I am telling you, to be human is a great honor, by God, and not be an animal. Now, we'll make an exercise. Tomorrow, it will be the last lesson of this season, we'll speak more about the mind elementals, and maybe introspection, and checking desires and emotions, and how to react to the personal egoism, which will appear every time, just to take you out of the way of right thinking. Now, relax completely your body. The Holy Ark, I just allow you to call it yours, although it is theirs, not yours. Call it yours, you are living in it. Now, breathe and feel you are in your material body. From the toes of your feet, until the forehead. You are, you feel you are in the cross- material body. Yet, you don't know who you are. But you are feeling you are there. Feeling, it means you are using now, your psychical body, and you are a third couple of your material body. Because the feeling is of the psychical body. Now, you can use it in your cross-material body. You can feel in every part of your material body. Feel your material body. And you are feeling you are psychical body. Calm down in you all emotions. All of thoughts. The only thing you are feeling, you are living in your cross-material body. Now, breathe deeply. And concentrate in the air entering into your lungs. What is in the air? Entering in your lungs. Besides oxygen, it is the etheric vitality, it is the mind. Breathe, feel your lungs. Feel in all your material body, yet feel now, in the air entering in your lungs. Breathe deeply, but with comfort. Who are you who can do that? Your cross-material body is living, whether you notice it or you don't. It is under the care of the Holy Archangels of the elements. And the hair, all the hair, on your body are numbered. They are growing, each one. So you don't know them. But the Holy Archangels do. They are working for you, building your cross-material body. You. Whom? Your petty time and place personality. Yes, you have to analyze it. Know it. Check it. Check your feelings. Check your desires. Check your intentions. Check the way you are living. Study your personality. Breathe deeply and the mind is granted to you. The super- substance of the mind which is everywhere. Put the question now. Who am I? Forget your name and the sex. Who am I? What am I? Two different questions. Don't expect the answer now. You are Holy Archangels and you are. God the Archangel heard you. And he will reply to you. Doesn't matter when. Maybe you will be sleeping as a personality or awakened. A time you don't expect it. You will get the answer and you will know from where you get the answer. Who am I? I am not the person having this or that name. Or being of that or that sex. Who am I? And you will know much about your personality. Its way of behaving, living and the way to transmute itself to your ego soul self. And when you say, Who am I? Joshua Manuel will reply to you. He said that already. You are God. You are all offsprings of Allah, of God the Father. And ask him, call him your father. Don't call any human being your father on earth. All of you are sons of the Almighty. One is the father of all human beings. God. You are God. So, who am I? And what am I? And expect to get the answers. Directly yourself. Sometime. I am sorry but they were very noisy. I am sorry. Talking. Talking. Trying to take photo. 2- The Christ Logos and the Divine Selfhood So, this ladder, with many, many, many steps, is the mind. And using it, we have to develop, in our selfhood, the various kinds of consciousness. Now, by observation, what we see? This consciousness is not only to serve the selfhood, but also to serve all the other phenomena of life around us. Because the mind is everywhere. It's used by the holy archangels, in the trees and the animals. And what we find, as phenomena of life, reaching this stage of the selfhood, that the stones, the crystals, the metals, everything, they have a kind of sensitivity. They are sensitive to the weather, to the etheric vibrations, to electricity, to magnetism. Each of these elements, we call matter. Because matter is a solid mind. It has a certain sensitivity. If you touch a piece of glass to a loaded wire with electricity, it will not catch electricity. But if you get a piece of iron and touch it, that would shake you. Why? A piece of matter and one and the other. Or a piece of wood. If you wet the wood, you put water in it, dare to touch a loaded wire. Why? You leave away, in a dumb weather, a piece of gold. That will not affect it. If you leave a piece of iron, you see drafty. Why? So, even what we call life, in the metals and in the gross matter, that is what we observe and say sensitivity. Do human beings have this sensitivity? Yes. Because a human being has everything. We have that sensitivity. Because we have the mind matter in our body also. Then we see this sensitivity in various grades. You see a nice flower outside. The sun rises and then the flower turns to the sun. Why? That's a higher state of sensitivity than the sensitivity of the metals or the crystals. Now, we see in the animal life, we see sensitivity plus a kind of subconsciousness, which you call instinct. The instinctive kind of consciousness. Do human beings have this instinctive subconsciousness? Of course they have it. And by studying, meditating and concentration and observation, one finds out that he has the sensitivity, he has the instinctive consciousness, and you have the subconsciousness. Most of the living forms around us in the animal kingdom are expressing this subconsciousness. This subconsciousness is common to all kinds of life around us. And all those modes of consciousness are in the Holy Spirit. So everything is governed by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels, who are creating the elemental angels using the total wisdom to give us all this phenomena of life all around us. Now, we have what we call subconsciousness in the human being. Of course, subconsciousness in the human being has been greatly misunderstood. We are using this word for different modes of existence. We have to study them. Then what do we have more to the human being, which we don't see in the animal kingdom around us? The self-consciousness. From this point, the human being is God. So, developing now this self-consciousness to higher levels. Now, I'm asking you, do human beings all around us, even in the so-called civilized world, have a self-consciousness? Or are they living subconsciously? They think they have a self-consciousness, while they are living subconsciously. And they have to work until they create in themselves that self-consciousness, even of the present-day personality. Because we have now the self of the present-day personality in the world of separateness. To develop it into what? Into the super-consciousness. And after that, to the self-super- consciousness. By developing in us what I call attunement to something. But it needs training. Much training. Not only years of training. Centuries of training. And then develop it still higher, higher. Until we reach that super- consciousness, self-super-consciousness, which is what you call oneness. Becoming one. Becoming one with what? With anything. With any form. With the Archangels. With the Logos. With God. So, reaching to that state of self-super-consciousness, what I call attunement, then you know who you are. You are what? What you were always without knowing it. God. And what is God now? A super-conscious being. Composing the absolute, infinite beingness, the Logos, and the absolute, infinite beingness, the Holy Spirit. Now, if you understand these two great, great powers, which are in us, in the Kingdom of the Heavens, which is in us, and how to develop them, then you understand what is the purpose in life. What is life? What should life be? Now, as human beings are today, they are living. I say that they are subconsciously living. They don't know, because they cannot meditate. They cannot use their self-conscious mind. What Joshua the Christ was calling his common people all around us, even now in the civilized countries. It is clear there. A fellow approached Christ, Joshua, told him, Sir, I want to follow you. You are teaching things divine. I want to follow you. But my father and my mother are living. Yet. Wait until they pass over, and then, of course, I will follow you. And what did Joshua the Christ reply to him? You follow me, and let the dead bury their own dead. Let the dead bury their own dead. So for Joshua the Christ, the common people all around, and today as they are, are considered dead. And not really living. So. Now, what is life? What did he say? I am life and the resurrection. What does it mean, the resurrection? A word which has been so much misunderstood. We are waking up to what we are. That is the resurrection. Resurrection does not mean our material body to die and be recomposed and we enter again in that dirty sack, we call it, material body. That is not resurrection. Though many think that the word resurrection means the material body to be resurrected. No, resurrection means to wake up into your own state and nature. That is the resurrection. He said, I am the life and the resurrection. And he who believes in me will have everlasting life. Again, I suggest that each one should have the New Testament as his or her best friend. And enter in the great, great meanings especially of the sayings of Joshua the Christ. So, we said enough theory now. Something practical now, which you have to do. What do we have to do now? We are living in a material body. And I tell you that your material body has in it or it is in your etheric double. How many of you know that? Though you are using that etheric double. Subconsciously. That's why I said a human being is living subconsciously. I am telling you that but also you have a psychical body with its etheric double. Who knows that? Saint Paul mentioned it. I spoke about the logical body. You are using it subconsciously. But who knows it? These are the various kinds of consciousness of the locals. And what Saint John the Evangelist said The selfhood is life. And it is the light to every man. And the light shines in the darkness. And the darkness does not comprehend it. What does it mean? Joshua the Christ the selfhood is in everyone of us. Everyone has a petty little sense of selfhood. Just centered on a name and the body. A female or male name and a body. Without knowing its nature that selfhood has life. And so Joshua or the locals is the selfhood. In him is life. And the life is the light of men giving them this selfhood. And the light shines. It is the mind. It shines. We can use it to shine in the darkness. And the darkness, which means you are present in the personality does not comprehend it. It is just the first sentences with which St. John the Evangelist begins his gospel. Great wisdom. Yes, but great wisdom, we must find it out. We must work to make it truth for us. To work for it. By using the mind. So what is the aim of the system for the research of the truth? We are just having it now. What for? There must be a reason. Just to teach humans every human being the way to the light. How? By training the self, the petty little self of the personality to raise that self to higher levels of consciousness and self-realization. By teaching people how to study and know the nature of the mind's substance composing the psychical body, etc. Controlling the emotions. Controlling the desires. Controlling that self of the personality. Controlling the human egoism. And then using the mind as super-substance now as thought. Right thought and reason. And when one will do that he will find his way back. There was, he said, a woman who got three measures of flour, mixed them with water until the whole thing became living. It was Christ teaching bakers how to make bread. What did he mean? Who is that woman? The personality. Taking the three measures. The material body, the psychical body, and the ethical body. Mixing them with water. That means with the mind, with the reason, until all of them became one living. That's what Christ meant by that great word. So what we are supposed to do? Know the nature of our material body, of matter. Study it. By studying it, we will find the total wisdom of the archangels which have built it and who are working every moment in the material body for us. Do you live in your material body by right or by grace? By right. How? By living a life which causes illnesses to your material body. The illnesses and the wounds and the broken bones you are doing on the material body. The holy archangels are constantly working to repair the harm you are causing. To close up wounds and make bones join. That's what happens. Everybody will notice that. Everybody will notice that. The holy archangels in his material body are working continuously to keep it in good order. So we as personality now the way we are living, do we deserve to live in that material body built up with such great wisdom? It's up to you to decide. And then a step forward. If you decide now as your personality the petty self to take control at this moment you are the victim of circumstances without studying what are emotions what are thoughts being unhappy and all that. Now you decide to know the truth to set you free from the illusions from the prejudices from pain, from sorrow and then you start changing things starting seriously the nature of desire of emotion seeing your subconsciousness what was the outcome all through the time which has passed of your surrendering yourself to emotions uncontrolled emotions and desires creating in your subconsciousness hatreds jealousies weaknesses so many things. Now you have to decide to study all these things and free yourself from the consequences of all that. How? By using the reason now. Using the mind you start using the mind to control the emotions to remedy the illnesses of the body and of the emotional body that means of your psychical body but is that the aim of it? That would be a great, great gain because you would succeed doing that but the greatest gain is subconscious creativity in finding yourself Who am I? Who can do it? I can control this material body therefore I am not a material body I can control my emotions, my desires therefore I am not that because they are changing I can even correct things overcome weaknesses there are so many weaknesses leading to so many kinds of evil and now I am using the mind Who am I? Who can do that? You will get a reply from your guardian angel I tell you my love you are God, we are Gods wake up What is another gain after doing that? You will come without knowing it in conscious contact with the archangels at the beginning you will feel that they use intuition to show you the light and say yes, now I understand I am thinking I think I am thinking rightly but this thought is not method, it came from outside mistake it came from within because the holy archangel is in you and not outside I had many people saying to me, Askale you know what is inspiration? I said, you find out he said, no in my meditation I was thinking like that it came to me and I knew that that thought was not mine, it came from without I said, no you are mistaken it didn't come from without it came from within from the kingdom of the heavens which is in you some of them of course are feeling afraid at the beginning but it needs courage the first contact with your guardian angel who sometimes gives very bad slaps when you overdo it which God of course thinks of consciousness but he is a loving archangel very loving archangel when one is doing what is good to do and then apart from the inspiration and the intuition you will see them will you materialize? No will you psychicalize? because you will develop in the meantime the psychical vision which is clairvoyance you will hear which is clairaudience is that all? no because by training one day sitting you will find oh my body is here and I am there where am I? where am I? then you will come back entering your body and you know that you are outside of your body many many times without knowing it now you develop the self-consciousness of course there are ways in the innermost circle innermost circle of our system the brother instructor is giving instructions how to make self-conscious exosomatosis then the real gain is that you know there is no death by reasoning you are convinced there is no death because in every 24 hours certain hours you are entering in a state of nothingness you are in a dream you are in a sleep without any dream yet you wake up and recompose yourself which means that state of nothingness you have entered is not injuring your personality or yourself it is quite independent and you feel recomposing yourself now you have a greater proof I am not that body there I can move wherever I like to go of course you will be instructed how to do that because it is not only the material world you will be able to move about you will find yourself in the psychical world and you must be sure that you are not finding the exosomatosis yourself in any self-created hell so you will be taught also how to build up your paradise, you will call it like that and pull down your dungeon, the hell you have built already but we said by controlling the emotions and the desires and freeing ourselves from the weaknesses, hatred madness the feeling of attacking and all that we already demolished our hell because I am telling you when a fellow passes over to the other side who knows at any moment it may happen to everybody by accident, by illness by heart failure there are many ways nobody will find himself or herself in any hell or in any paradise, they are not already, so we have from now to demolish that prison or our hell and with the same material which is the mind build up a better place for us place because in the other side it is the sense of place Christ said I go in the house of my father, there are many many mansions I go to prepare place for you, the sense of place, now of course we think what is the difference between place and space there are many many things one, seeker of the truth has to engage himself with many many branches of study and always there is the reward now we will make a meditation relax completely feel you are relaxed from the legs thighs abdomen chest breathe deeply and comfortably silence down completely in you every emotion you have to start now to think slowly you feel you are in that material body of yours now everywhere in the material body head chest, hands abdomen, feet feel you are in your material body I said start thinking slowly you have to slow down the way of thinking who am I don't be in a hurry put this question slowly who am I in this material body is this material body mine I am in it I am in it who am I forget your name forget your human form put the question directly you want to investigate your selfhood not the material body the gross matter the matter is nothing the spirit is life giving you, you are the spirit who am I what am I casting away from myself emotions desires thoughts yet I remain myself I am I that I-ness I want to know and feel that it is myself not my desires my weaknesses or my thoughts all these are changing but I am not changing I am the everlasting life whether I am in a dreamless deep sleep I am recomposing my petty little time and place self I am the same I-ness I am the life and the truth what am I an entity receiving impressions from outside from the material world yes, at that but I am more than that much, much more than that I am I this I-ness myself I want to know entering the real self-realization what am I then you'll receive the answer not now maybe sometime you'll be sleeping and you'll wake up and you'll know the answer the holy archangels and your guardian angel heard you and when time will come they'll think it is the time they will reply to your question now, breathe deeply and comfortably I can change the rhythm of my breath yet all the time I was breathing subconsciously not knowing it my breath being controlled by the holy archangels but now I can take control and breathe willingly to the rhythm I want of course you'll be taught this kind of rhythm according to the beats of your heart so that you'll get control control of what? of your emotions because you are influencing also the psychical body through the etheric double of the psychical body breathe deeply you can change the rhythm of your breath you can become master of your home of your material body now you can influence your subconsciousness the subconscious mind in your personality say with your mind I want perfect health to be in this material body of mine the archangels are laughing now what are we doing all the time? not to restore good health in your body of course but you have to realize that by saying so you tell your subconscious not to counteract to the work of the archangels you help them now breathe deeply and say to yourself mentally I want perfect health to be in this material body of mine continue breathing deeply and comfortably enough 2- The God of Life and Love Then he continued asking him on the accusation of Sahedrin who wanted him to be crucified. They said, you are the king of the Jews. Are you a king? He replied, you say so. Then continuing, my kingdom is not of this world. He meant his kingdom was the kingdom of the heavens. What are the kingdoms of the heavens? That was all his teaching. The kingdom of the heavens is in you. Within you. He spoke about these heavens. Now, orthodox science can find out these heavens calling them universes of various dimensions. Orthodox science is going to investigate now and find the truth. No matter they are using different terms. We can study the so-called ethereal plane, psychical plane, noetical plane, noetic planes. In studying these planes in our bodies. Because these bodies are of these planes. And these heavens or planes have different dimensions. Yes, of course, Joshua the Christ, the king of the kingdom of the heavens and of the earth, of course, but least of the earth. How could he explain to the governor what means the kingdom of the heavens? What is for us human beings interesting? Only the cross-material world without cross-material body. This means nearly everything, at least to three-fourths of the living people around the planet, civilized or not civilized. What they are interested with is their material body and the cross-material world and what is in the material world, getting it, stealing it, catching it, possessing it, saying it mine. What else? What is the behavior of human beings now on the planet? And, do they possess anything? They think so. Becoming millionaires. Reaching an age where they have to leave everything and go to another plane. Carrying to the other plane anything material is there a bank in which we can just lodge money to have them in the other side of the material world we have here? Of course there is. The heart. Sharing everything with others, not as charity. For me, charity is just a very, very bad word. Sharing with others what they call theirs in love belonging to the others as well. Whatever God created belongs to all. Not just a few gathering them, collecting them, keeping them, calling it their own. Of course, we can take in the other side what we can lodge in our hearts as love. Only love. I say, not charity. Charity is a meaning putting you in a state superior to the others, the others who are there. And, of course, you have that feeling of giving from your own. You are not giving anything your own. What you are giving is what belongs to God. And that what belongs to God belongs to the other fellow as much as it belongs to you. So giving what is God's is not making the other fellow indebted to you. Yet, there is a reward in it. Even if you give a glass of water it says Christ to the other. The water is not yours. Yet, that love of giving that glass of water makes a relation between you and he owes you that glass of water. There is something in it, but not by right. By the grace of God all these things can be studied. One, freeing himself from what I call his personal egoism, will see in a more clear way the reality. So, there is a bank where you can lodge money for the other side. Love and the heart. Giving not just as charity, but as love. Now, what is love? This is the most misunderstood expression. Distorted according to the quality of one's egoism. Love means loving you, honoring you to be with me, to be in my company as a wife or as a husband or as a child or anything. If you just flatter me and do what I want you to do or what I like, I will do it. If one is just going against the will of the father, the mother, the wife, the husband or anything, then you see them clashing. You call that love. Can you love the other as they are and not as you want them to be? Then it is love. Now, if you have dreams for a beloved one, put them down for that one to decide. And then that's again extension of love. Pointing out dangers and what you mean by that change. That's love. Force is not love. We must have that in our mind. No one can use force and call it love. Definitely. Now, what is love? This is the characteristic of our selfhood. God is love. There can't be anything other than love God. And the proof of it, whatever he does in his universes, he is doing it expressing his love. His will pleasure of manifesting itself is just that love. Protecting every creature, every living thing, caring about everything living, using its omnipresence, its total wisdom and almightyness. You can see all that, we said, studying things in the universe. You can find the love of the infinite beingness everywhere. So, one of the characteristics, the main characteristic of the infinite beingness of God is life love. For me, these are synonymous. Life love. The two run together. So, what is the duty of every human being? To find his or her place in universe. The cross-material universe, the ethereal universe, the psychic universe, the genetic universe, all these universes, by studying his own nature as a personality, studying his bodies, which will become a reality for them. Reality. We speak about the etheric double. It is the source of energy for the material body to be built up and sustained. You have to know it. By concentration and meditation and introspection and get control of it, use it, know it. Lessons are given, of course, in our system of research, how to acquaint ourselves with our etheric double, how to use it. By using it, we are sure that it exists. Otherwise, how can we claim that it exists? So, we must now try to study our emotional nature, which is our, what we call, psychical body. In our material body and in our personality, or rather part of our personality. We have to study what is in it. And we find in it what we call the subconscious mind, our subconsciousness. We will find all the elementals created by our desires, emotions and thoughts. And we find out that the sum total of all those so-called elementals, and every elemental has a form of its own, are composing our present-day personality, which is not ourselves. Yes. Life behind it is ourselves. Not in reality, the present-day personality as the bodies, because you find out that the bodies are not yourself. They are built up for you and you use them. You are in them and you use them. So, by studying the nature of the mind as thought now, reasoning, using it in a reasonable way, just controlling desires and emotions, studying them first to know their nature, then controlling them, you just develop what I call your neurotic body. You are just cleaning the three mirrors in which one sees himself a monster, distorted, an image of a monster. Yes, of course, weaknesses, enmities, and all those in the personality are distorting the cleanliness of the mirror. By so doing, you clean it and you see yourself, not as you are in reality, as a very, very handsome god, but at least you don't see yourself in it, I mean in the material body, in the psychical and the neurotic bodies, as a monster. Which is the first image you see in it after cleaning it? Which is not exactly you, yet it is part of you. You are a guardian angel. Who will just help you to clean this three-fold mirror? So, we have to do all that work sooner or later. Now, are people willing to do that? We don't have time. My business, in earning money, or in earning fame, or this and that, many, many, many ways in life, occupying our personality. We don't have time for that. And behaving in one and the other way, in this society, we are creating, quote, unquote the cause and the effect of our actions. Which is sometimes a very, very painful whip of destiny. Hindus call it karma. The mistake with the Hindu philosophy is that karma they mean always something bad. While it isn't so, according to the Christian religion, given by Joshua Manuel the Christ, whatever a man sows, so he shall reap. So, it's not only what you call karma, something bad, just to come to us, but also the reward. So, people are living like that now, in their societies, their nation, in the place the absolute intelligence decided to put them there, to get their next lesson. But they have also the chance of using the mind, the right way of meditation, reasoning, observation, and introspection to reach the truth. So, we have these two ways. One is the whip of destiny, when you do something bad, and the other is the way of thought. Of course, the reasonable ones are using this way of thinking, reasoning, searching. This is, after all, the reason why this system of the seekers of the truth had been created, to show people just this way of reasoning, searching, finding and knowing the truth. For the others, we said, it is the hard way. Of course, end effect. But, sooner or later, by bitterness and pain, everybody will get his or her lesson. Every prodigal son has to return back home. Home where? That's not a place. Back to their own nature, to their God-selfhood. So, in conclusion, all of us are even as a living personality, a God, never being a man or a woman. Our nature as life in the personality is divine. It is our selfhood covered by the bodies. We have to uncover it. A great strong light, if you place three shades over it, what kind of light it will produce just outside on your walls? Very little. We have to take the shades off one by one. Then we have blinding light, which is our real selfhood. So, we have to uncover the light of our soul, of our inner nature. So, I say, by the research of the truth, we are losing nothing and we are gaining everything. By putting away certain things from the light, then you don't have anymore the shadow. We are not losing anything because the shadow is not there anymore. You have the light. What is interesting to you is the light, not the shadow in the world of existence. So, we are not losing anything by putting the light in a better place, not casting a shadow. So, we have to find out that selfhood, divine selfhood of ours, our real self. And what Joseph the Christ says, just lighting a lamp is not putting it just under a table, but in a place to light the whole room. There is a meaning on these suggestions of Christ. Tomorrow we will speak more about the mind, how to use the mind now, setting it free from being the slave of petty desires, stupid desires and emotions. How using the mind as a reasoning, study the nature of desires and emotions to become masters of our material body, of our psychical body and our non-ethical body. We will speak more tomorrow on these thought-forms and emotion-thought-forms called elementals. How they are created, how they look like, how these elementals are influencing us according to their nature and purity. Now we will make an exercise. Relax completely the material body. It is not your material body, you can use it. By relaxing or moving about in your body you are not interfering with the work of the archangels in sustaining that body of yours, joining bones or curing wounds. Feel you are you even as a man or a woman. You can bring forward your name now and how you look as a material body. Now, you are you in this material body of yours. You can use your hands becoming even subconsciously master of the kinetic ether of your etheric body, of your etheric double. You can get mastery of your hands, becoming a painter, a sculptor, a great musician, a great anything. You can gain that mastership, that your present personality can do it. You can use the kinetic ether walking, going about, just exercising your body, playing football, anything else which has movement, motion. This is what your present personality can do. But now all the time your heart is beating to keep the circulation of the blood in the body. Who supervises this work? Who is making your material heart beat? What is the pulse of life? You! You cannot control your heart. It is super-intelligence and the holy archangels of the elements doing it. So you are sure of their existence and presence in your body. They are making your material heart beat and they can check the quality of your blood purifying it. They are masters of your whole body. If you have a wound on your body they will cure it. If you have a broken bone that bone will join. That will be cured also. They are in your body working in it increasingly, every moment, to keep it in good order for you to live in this material body. They are working also in your esoteric double. They are working also in your psychical body, trying to make it good for you to live and use it and clean it. They are working also in your noetical body. They are working in all your bodies, these holy archangels of the elements, of the mind elements. Thank them with your mind. Live in this material body, being grateful to them and not ungrateful. Just living in your material body is a grace from God and one should thank the holy archangels, the creators who have built it up and sustained it and working it for you, for your present personality, being a man or a woman. It is material to them, they don't care about it. They find in this material body a personality. For them, a God can study your material body and thank them for this most precious work closing down wounds, joining bonds, curing illnesses, if of course you let them do it by not exhausting the etheric vitality in a stupid way of living, getting angry, envious, jealous, fighting, hating and all those conditions which burn down your etheric vitality. Now feel you are in this body of yours and that's you, a personality and a God, a personality which has to live in this world in the circumstances the absolute intelligence has chosen for you. Difficult or not difficult or easy. It doesn't matter. You are where the absolute intelligence has chosen to place you to get your next lessons. You don't have the right to object to the divine will. So we have just to learn our lesson and live our life according to the will of the infinite intelligence, according to the will of God, according to the will of the everlasting life in us. We are that everlasting life. We are life. Expecting from us as human beings now who have established a personality to use it in such a way according to the will of God. Becoming something according to the circumstances in our society, in our nation. Put the question to yourself Who am I? A man or a woman? I'm living in this body. And this body lives just like any other animal around us. Am I an animal? Having only a body of bones, flesh, blood and all that as all other animals have all around me? Am I God? Now expressing myself according to the circumstances the divine plan to get certain lessons with other human beings around me. The lessons I have to get is to live feeling satisfied and happy and give the others around me this kind of happiness and satisfaction. To give love and expect love. This is the next lesson we have to learn. Others to be patient tolerant thinking personality reasoning personality not a personality in confusion we have been given everything a body everything has been given to us to make us at least satisfied even not happy the air to breathe and make our body live the supervision over our bodies of the Holy Archangels to keep it in good health for us gave us the oxygen, the air to breathe and make our body live you are breathing subconsciously. Who is making you breathe? And who is just turning that air and the vitality in you as life have two things you have to observe and thank the Holy Archangels breathing and the parts of the heart which is in their control we are living because we are the life the everlasting life you should appreciate that so, as everybody has the right to breathe and make his or her material body live everybody has the right to use the mind so that his or her personality breathes wisdom and live what we need to do now is to use the mind as a reason reasonable thought strong enough to control all kinds of desires and emotions control desires doesn't mean that all desires are sinful or bad because if that was so God would not allow it to influence us but we must use the mind now in a reasonable way to study the nature of these desires fulfill them or reject them the same with the emotions know them study them either use them or reject them this means life in the material world by a personality of a man or a woman and unless we are doing our duty to the life phenomenon we cannot understand what is the everlasting life which is our nature so breathe now deeply feel you are breathing you are breathing all the time without noticing it now you can do it feeling it breathe deeply and comfortably and feel your whole body with the etheric vitality because in the air you are breathing it is not only oxygen it is also the etheric vitality in it and as the lungs are absorbing the oxygen your personality is absorbing the etheric vitality I mean your etheric double of your material body breathe life it is life put your hand on your heart and feel the parts of life is that what you call it? those beats of your heart it is the words of God I love you in every part you hear that word I love you and you leave I am in you when you will be in me consciously? he is waiting patiently he is in us all waiting for us consciously to be in him also he is everywhere enough tomorrow the lesson will be on the mind and the elementals only two lessons every time we give them on Monday, Tuesday are enough for you for the whole lifetime to use them and develop only two lessons are enough only just to get the practical side of it and the theory and live with them 2- The Many Mansions of Mind Vitality as Universes, Worlds and Planes So, now I say, the words of existence, as far as a human being, using its human intelligence, can know, are seven. Which are these? Seven material words of existence and words of substance. Words in which phenomena of life are existing and living. We know the cross-material world. For us, it's only one third of the surface of our planet. The rest is water. Very small indeed. At least for the orthodox scientists today, it became very small. So, this is a world of existence, in which we can study phenomena of life. Billions and billions and billions, start from the Amoeba, the world, everything are all phenomena of life, having a cross-material body. What do we study? That all these phenomena of life, obey to certain rules and laws. Therefore, there must be the lawyer, and the one who is ruling these things. And what are these rules of the cross-material world? Nothing can exist in the cross- material world, unless it has a form, and a cross-material body in that form. Which form? Billions and billions and billions and billions of forms. Do we see billions of phenomena of life all around us? We can study. In the mineral kingdom, the crystals, metals. In the vegetable kingdom, in the animal kingdom. There are so many, many things to study, and reach to our conclusion that definitely, behind every phenomenon of life, is a super-intelligence. Beyond our comprehension, which is almighty, keeping that, and any of these phenomena of life, in the circle of existence and possibilities. Nothing can escape from that circle of possibilities. We can study also the probabilities, many probabilities, in a definite circle of possibilities for every existing being. These are the laws of the cross-material world. Now, what the mystics can find, also beyond this knowledge of the cross-material world, entering, not consciously, but self- consciously, in this cross-material world, they will find there the same law. Phenomena of life, of life continuing their life from the cross-material world there, or even phenomena of life only in the psychical world. Again, they must have a form to exist. A form dressed up with the substance of that plane, as the forms are material in the cross-material plane. Now, trying to trace God there, more easily. Now, I had some, just experience, which I tell you later. Now, entering in the nautical world, more light, full of light. Matter is emanating light. We are in the world of the light, in the nautical world. There, to exist also, one should have a form. Different form for us human beings. No. Exactly our human form, and each one with his characteristics. Seeing George and John there, you will understand that it's there. Even if they have a shell on their face or something, you will see it there. All the characteristics are there. But, you see now, that form, more luminous, more lovely, more beautiful. There is nothing which is ugly in the nautical world. In the nautical, going there, there is a form there, but in different sense is the form there. Then you can see the soul-spirit form, what we call a spirit body, which is a body and it isn't a body also. Why it is and it isn't? Because to see a form in the lower world, in the cross-material world, you will find it in its course of existence in time. Starts from spermatozoa, growing, growing, growing, growing, growing until it becomes an old man. If he would complete the circle of possibilities, then going on. So, you see the human form in the cross-material body, continuously changing. Some total of everything is you. You say, yes, if you have photos, you say, how nice I was when I was 20 years old. Now, I am grown up, with wrinkles on my face, like that. Everything is in your circle of possibilities and existence. So, it is how you see a human being in the cross-material world. In the world of continuous change. Now, in the psychical world, you go there in the psychical. Usually, those who go in the psychical world and you contact them, you see them younger. Because they want to look younger. And so, the psychical substance of their form is more under the influence of what they like and of their thoughts. Conducting self- consciously, people in the astral plane, who have departed, you see them much younger and beautiful. And they prefer a certain age. And they can remain in that age for a long, long, longer time, but not forever. So, what we call the course in time of the circle of existence there, changes completely, not in form, but in appearance. Because the form is there, in all its course. But you have the appearance which you like. The same in the nautical world. Provided you are permitted to have that. And who is not permitting us to have the appearance we want to have and we like? We are just in the way we are living. In your shell, if you are in a shell, it's not easy just to influence your appearance. You see an old man there, he's having his money. You can enter in his shell and see him in the age. It's an old man just counting his money. So, there are conditions there. Which you need to study. And conditions in life, in the psychical world, are not the same as the conditions in life of our cross-material world. And the difficulty for those who are in the cross-material world is to accommodate themselves with the new conditions of life of the psychical plane. And they need training. And there are people who are training souls, personalities, or going there to see things in a different way as they are and not in the way they used to see things on the cross- material plane. For example, I am one of these teachers to those departing from the material plane. To go from here with cross-material body, somewhere you will go step by step, step by step, walking. And order by bicycle, by car, by an aeroplane to move yourself on a cross- material world. Now, are there cars, railways, and all these things in the psychical world? In the psychical world, generally, no. But in the shell-hells of people, everything existing on the material world is there. You can see entering in their shell-hell or shell-paradise all these things which they carry from here as their impression and their knowledge. But you laugh, that you live in your own world. In your world, it's what you have understood, what you have taken from the cross-material. But in the psychical world, it's all light and beauty. But who can see it? There is light and beauty on our cross-material world certain hours of the day. Who is observing this beauty and this light and everything? Living all the time in their own thoughts and emotions and interest in life. So things are not changing immediately. But I am telling you, the psychical world is much, much better than the cross-material world. It's as if going out of a dungeon to the open country. Now, things there have longer life. Just you have a nice flower, for how long that will last? How long? Two hours. Days, the maximum. And then? So, the law on the cross-material body, on the cross-material world is continuous change and decay. In the psychical world? No. Things have longer, much longer life. I had an experience, which I am telling you my own. I was seven years of age. Being self-conscious in the psychical plane as I was in the cross-material plane. I had a friend there, a Dominican monk. He had showed me to a very nice place in the psychical world, a kind of monastery. A long, long, very nice hall. He said, you are blessed if you come here to stay. You have the right. Just a stained glass there, beautiful things. I have seen them in Europe, on churches. At that time, I didn't see any of these things on the cross-material body. A nice, comfortable bed and a crucifix. And an altar. Because they know the crucifix there and the altar. In the altar was a very lovely Madonna Lilies. Smelling. The sense of smelling, you have it there perfectly. You don't have it on the material plane. So nice. I told him, look here, can I have just one of these and put it on the altar? I was seven years of age. Eight, maybe. Of course, with his thought, because everything is created by thought there. He presented me a nice vase. Emerald color vase. With water. Why he did it? Because this was the things I knew from the cross-material world. I got one, they placed it there. Just in front of the crucifix. It is there now, fresh, yet. And the other day I told him, well, what stupidity, why did I have to cut it and put it there and not offer it to him being there? He said, well, that was what you wanted. So things are not decaying in the psychical plane. Genetical plane. They endure longer time. Which means that the mind as thought is not creating and not sustaining things we like on the cross-material world as you can do them in the psychical and genetical world. But you have to live self-consciously there. But are people living on the cross-material world now, living self-consciously? No. I am telling you, 80% of people living all over the world, in the civilized countries and everywhere, they are not living self-consciously. They are living, yes, consciously, not self-consciously. They didn't reach, how do you say, self-realization to know what they are. Know what they are as what? Mary, church. No, that's not our real self. That's our time and place self in the cross-material body. As soul, spirit beings. Because in reality, our real self is not our appearance. In the course, in our course, in time, around the circle of possibilities of a human being, and of course our own way to cover this circle of possibilities on the earth plane. What am I aiming at now? To understand who you are. You are not what you think you appear. Who we are? A little boy, an infant, an adult, a middle-aged man, an old man. We are not all that. All that is our course in what we call in our circles of existence and possibilities. Then what we are? What is really our appearance? Now try to understand what I say now. In the noetic world, we are all that. To are able to be and feel all that instinct to what we like best. You are the circle of your possibilities. And you feel a great joy being everything of what you have existed. Not only in the cross-material world, also in the psychic and the noetic world. That is what we call perfect life. As a human being. You are human. Form, not in changing of appearance. But feeling everything in you. Everything is added to you because you are in the kingdom of the heavens. That's why I said, it is a form and it isn't a form. The so-called spirit body. What are the characteristics of our spirit body? First of all, the spirit body is incorruptible. Everlasting. It does not die. It is incorruptible. How can we create it? We have it already in us, in all our bodies. We never created it. It existed. It is. And this is why the holy archangels take it as sustaining your body. Just to go through the circle of your possibilities. You say to me, did you ever come in contact with your spirit? Soul body? I'm telling you, yes. If I say no, I would be a liar. What do you feel there? Please. You feel one, at least with my most beloved one. Joshua Barnard the Christ. Not with God. And with God. But I don't want to leave him. I don't want to leave my human form. Not body. The body is something different. He had honored the human form. It is in him. We are all of us in him. Which means, can you be in any body? Considering him your own self. Yes, I can. But it's difficult to explain what it is. It's what he was feeling as a human being. Saying, Father, they are me. I am they. How they are in the world of separateness, not knowing that. And why you have forsaken me in them? Since I am in them. There is just a mistake in the gospel. Joshua Barnard the Christ, I heard it myself. He didn't say, where there are two or three, I am with them. He added something more. Where there are two or three in my name. My name means in my own nature. Feeling who I am in them. He says, where there are two or three in my name, I am in them and with them. I am in them as spirit, soul beings. They are part of myself. And I am with them also as human beings around them. There are two different states. Being in and with. Which they confuse them. Everything, those who translated the Bible. Where there are two or three in my name, in my nature. I am in them and with them as human beings. That means entering in what we call the oneness. Of the absolute infinite being. Now, we said much. I will answer to a question. Marriage between two people, a male and a female person. If marriage, don't call it marriage, it is a union of two people, a male and a female. Sacred? Yes, it is. And binding? That depends. To what? Now, a male and a female person on the planet now. Can become, both of them, co-creators. With the absolute infinite beingness. In prolonging life, giving birth to new spirit, soul. To exist in the material world. It is the will of God. It is a different thing. So, what is the relation of these two people? Man and a woman. On the planet and in the heavens. I said, it depends. On the cross-material body, it is the sexual intercourse. Union. And the effect of it is just the childbirth. Between the children. And that's, I said, the will of God. Because they may do that and nothing will come to it. That depends, I said, upon the will of God. But in reality, seeing things, it is a sacred thing. Giving birth, prolonging the life from the other realms to the cross-material world. Now, from where it should start, this is the relationship. From the cross-material world, with the sexual intercourse. This is what is the mistake. Of course, according to the law of God and to his mercy, it is the opportunity, so that children may come to the world, to be born into the world. But, what family do they create? If their union is not in higher planes, in the realms of love. So, maybe there are two persons, a male and a female, for years and years, lying on the same bed, and still be very far from the other for years. That should not be sexual intercourse, which unites a man to a woman. So, is their marriage sacred then? Now, we shall see it from two different points. Of duty and habit, because why they are connected, unless there is a debt which one owes to the other. Because God could not just make them meet each other. That is one case, and the other case is just to be according to the will of God. But, I said, the sexual intercourse is not joining two people, a male and a female. But, the soul connection. So, this cannot last on the material plane more than a few years. Forever. No. So, it is attraction and repulsion, attraction and repulsion, attraction and repulsion. To determine that there is the attraction, that remains one. That means, the one enters in the oneness of the other. They can never enter in the oneness of God, unless the one is entering the oneness of his companion. Let us call it companion. So, so that a family, to be blessed, to not only just the priest, just reciting things that binds to people, but their hearts. Love. So, what is uniting two people, is the love. On the higher realms, on the psychical and the noetical. Psychical and the noetical. It is not the same thing. No. They may be united in the psychical world, feeling one loves the other, be in union as two beings, male and female, that means loving each other, but there will not be any understanding amongst them, between them, and amongst the other people. So, it is not knowingly to be united to human beings, a man and a woman, in the psychical plane, but also in the noetical plane. There must be, what we call, understanding each other. One living for the other, and especially for the children. Because they complete now, this circle, according to the will of God, of creation. They become co-creators with God. So, the union is not only in the close material plane, it should be also in the psychical plane and in the noetical plane. This is the marriage which you find in the Gospel, proposed by Joshua the Christ, as a sacred union. And if Joshua the Christ, that one should love any other human being, as himself, would have been exceptional, with the fellow, that he becomes co-creator with God. So, this should be studied seriously, the sacredness of the married life. But again, do husband and wife come in many incarnations together? As I have seen, studying people around me, I am telling you, yes. I have seen couples more than ten times united. Which is just making these two people united? The sexual intercourse on the material plane, or they have done it with many others? Both of them. So, that does not bind. Then, which binds and brings them together in many, many incarnations? The Hindus call it karma, the debts of one to the other. And God unites two people, so that they will learn the great lesson of loving and understanding, and cooperating. Now, are people united in this incarnation? We are from past incarnations, in full attunement to each other. This is the thing they have to learn. Quarreling, shouting, living, complaining, living their life. Either being united to learn their lesson, or if they go too far, it is a divorce and separation. One goes his way, the other is going his other way. So, this relationship of human beings, male and female, on the planet, for years and years, and centuries and centuries, is just as a school to learn your lessons. Of understanding, loving, uniting. Uniting is not a carnal intercourse. Uniting is one entering the oneness of the other. Now, do I approve divorce? Sometimes, it is advisable. If people go too far, one of them or both of them are coming to a place of beating each other, kicking each other, creating troubles and all that, making their children unhappy, it is better to be separated. Separated. But they were separated already. Just living this kind of life, they had never been really united. So, what is uniting two people? Two things. Loving and understanding. If you don't have these two things, you don't know the gross material world is prostitution for me, even if it is by the blessing of the Church. So, uniting between two people should be understanding and loving. If one is selfish and thinks the other is just to dominate him, or dominate her, that doesn't matter. It is better that they should be separated. So, marriage for me is not the sexual intercourse between two people. But marriage for me is on the psychical world, with their psychical bodies and in the nautical. Two husband and wife meet in the other side, the psychical plane. I am telling you a law. Love is attraction. Indifference and hatred is repulsion. Those who do not live in the right way on the material plane, never mind that their husband and wife will not meet on the psychical plane or the nautical plane. But those who love each other are united. Now, we have beloved ones who have parted and went to the other side. Are we losing them? There is love? No. If there is not understanding, there is even this feeling of not being pleased with, it separates them. So, love is uniting. Indifference, hatred and quarrels are separating. Not only on the material plane, in the other planes also. Now, what is the lesson of Iman? To learn to love. This is the greatest lesson, which should be learned. To love, not in the way people are loving. Because what Joshua Manuel Christ said to his disciples, he said, Love one another as I have loved you. Not as you think it is love. My love I give to you. Which means what? My love. A love just pure. Not egoistic, not dominating. But giving. Whose love? He gave them, in the Last Supper, the greatest examples. Because I don't believe that they knew what he meant by my love I give to you. Till he showed them. Come on, washing their feet. Wiping them and kissing them, all of them. What he said? If you love, you wash the feet of the other. Is that humiliation? No, it is love. So, which is the greatest enemy of a human being on the planet, on earth? The sum total of the demon elementals created in his personality, in his subconsciousness. Never mind that this personal egoism presents itself sometimes as an angel of light. Egoism is always a demon collective of all the elementals of evil in a human being. Unless a fellow annihilates in his consciousness, in his subconsciousness, this group elemental we call egoism, he cannot wake up his self-consciousness. The soul, spirit, self. It is as simple as that. Now, what is the lesson a human being has to learn on the cross-material plane? First, that living a day, every day, God is giving us as human beings a day to live. Giving us a day to live, God, in the cross-material world. The Holy Archangels sustaining that material body and the other bodies to live in them ourselves. With what right we make the life of the other people miserable? Is that not devilish? But don't do illegal or so in a miserable way. What is the right, our right, just to live in that way, in a devilish way? Living in a body the Holy Archangels are creating for me and sustaining it for me to live. What is the aim of these Holy Archangels sustaining this body so that I will live in a stupid way, hating, not loving? Just think, the greatest tolerance of the Archangels to us and their patience for us. So, these are the lessons we have to learn. We have to initiate in our personality and in our, what we call, subconsciousness, this demon, collective demon, we call personal egoism. And of course, the duty of every human being and of the seekers of Holy Truth is by introspection, using the mind in a reasonable way, using their divine nature of observation and studying, see the reality. The reality in their emotions, in their desires, in their actions, in generally their life, as they call it, their own life. Otherwise, they will live unhappy and in despair until they learn the great lesson. And now, something like I should just tell you. We, as long as we live in our cross-material body, in our own way of living, we see things that they mean nothing, as just mountains to cross them. For the least things we create troubles, grief and unhappiness to us and to the others around us. That means living without thinking properly. What a seeker of the Truth should do? Never to value something beyond its value. Not undervalue it, not overvalue it. And how we understand that there are value of things? Seeing things from above, in the course of time and of the events, and studying our life as we have lived it, see that things which really matter very much for us, before a day, two, a month, three months, six months, today mean nothing to us. Seeing things from a different point of view. And yet, that time those things were torturing us. And we were torturing others. Thinking it was something very, very serious. Now we see that that's not the case. It's everything different. And what we shall do? See the things now that we think that they are of much importance in reality, they will mean nothing to us in the course of time. After some time, in future, this is the lesson we have to learn. Till we learn it very easily, I'm telling you we need many, many centuries to learn this lesson. Really, a human being needs centuries to learn this lesson. I remember when I was a boy, seven years old, that was just in the house, something that is dead. Other people, our people, just many, many, many things. It was in a corner sitting. I was looking at them all like that. Complaining why and why. So many why's, like devils jumping and dancing, all those why's and why and why and why. I was just looking like that. My father came to me and said, No, go to bed, it's late. We still have to talk. He started laughing. Talk, say what? What you are saying now, and you are saying the whole day, father? Yes, yes, you have just half to do what? No, I'm just sitting here listening to you. He said, you are just a little child, go to bed. You are seven years old. Go to bed. I'm looking at him, I said, father. I was hearing all the things. For days now you are talking. The whole family and the others coming, saying, all these things, the trouble and disturbance. Father, nothing matters much. And most of the things, all these things, matter at all. They went to bed, said, come here. Come on, repeat it to me, say that. Nothing matters much in life. And most things do not matter at all. It's a waste of time. He got a pen, said, repeat it. And he wrote in English, because we are speaking English language in our house. He wrote it down. Said, gentlemen, please, go now. No more talk about these things. He said, father, nothing matters much. And most things do not matter at all. And he put it on a board with red letters and put it in his room. Now, this is the reality. Nothing matters much. And most things do not matter at all. Especially, idle talk, lazy talk, of others, concerning us. Nothing matters. Tomorrow we speak. Again, I will just answer some of the questions. How he must live a better life? How he must create better elementals? And how to give way to trouble? 2- Understanding Elementals So, what you will have in mind, that a human being today, as he is, wicked or good, as a present-day personality, is the sum total of his or of her elementals which she has created and is creating daily, every day. So what you must have in mind, knowing now, what is just making our present way of living, our life today as it is, is the sum total of these elementals which we have in us and which we are continuously creating. What we have to know, what is life and what we made life. Life, even of the present-day personality, is common, is our divine self. We are living. That we are living, we were living in the past and we'll be living in the future, it is a reality. Couldn't we remember what we were in the past? Because our present-day personality, being concentrated all the time outwards and centered only in its interests of this incarnation, has got what we call forgetting. And maybe this is the mercy of God to forget. Because believing sometimes when a personality is very evil and wicked, it may lead that personality into despair, which is the grace of God, the mercy of God, of forgetting. Now, because you are forgetting, it doesn't mean you didn't leave. Just see now, if I ask you, what did you eat before five days? Can you remember? No. You can remember certain events which really interested you or which had given you just a shock. But due to the grace of God and to God's mercy, you cannot remember what is most painful, especially pain. Just think of that. You may have just such an event, giving birth, pain, or having an operation, or having an accident. You may remember many, many things concerning that event. Try to remember the pain you had. You cannot. Why? Because God's mercy is not leaving you just to remember pain. So don't blame the mercy of God for not remembering, for not just remembering past incarnations. I'm telling you, when you make your personality pure and good and advanced and put it in the hands of your spirit soul ego, when you transmute it into your real self from the earthly, from the flesh, from the common interest, then you will remember everything. It comes back to you, this kind of remembering. But what are you then? The present day, wicked personality, or you now, the transmuted into the pure spirit soul ego being? So we need that to start remembering. And that's not only the only gain you have. By developing your present day self into your spirit ego self personality, it is the powers you are gaining, because as a human being you are very weak. As a spirit soul, as God, you are most powerful. You can be the master of the cross matter. When you reach that state of being, that state of development, you are becoming certain. You are self-conscious now. You know what you are as a spirit soul ego self, and as a present personality? Yes, and that, but now you are in a higher position to see your present day personality and laugh. That's what I was feeling, being that. Just for these things I was suffering, crying, getting angry, behaving in that most ridiculous way. Of course you know that. And you will find out what a stupid being I was, being, not existing entity, not calling it being. Then you find your real self, but are you not changing from day to day? Many desires who have disturbed you, many wishes, intentions, leaving them, either by being fulfilled or by getting tired of being tortured by them, going away. Every day you are changing, which means our present day personality, which is an existence in the world of existence, is under the law of continuous change, so we are changing. Which means everybody, sooner or later, no matter how many years or incarnations, will get back to its own nature. There are two ways. The one way is using in the right way thought, becoming masters of our bodies, of our emotions and everything. Or the whip of destiny, learning your lesson the hard way, contravening laws, transgressing these transgressions to come into balance, will make you suffer. Whom? Your spirit, soul, ego? No. No. Their personality, self? Yes. The soul, ego, will never suffer. Many many times you suffer great things, yet you feel in you that it's not me, as an ego, suffering. That's how you are forgetting pain, and any painful thing tends to be forgotten. Which means the elementals, which are behind this, are dis-energized and are sent to the cosmic consciousness to live. Who is dis-energizing the elementals? Of course, mainly you should dis-energize all elementals which cause you pain. There are ways. There is a reason to do it. Or, if you reach to that stage that you are unable to do it, very seldom though, your guardian archangel will do it for you, but expect his slaps as things of consciousness. You will get them. When a fellow is doing too much, which is not good, you will get his slaps of the holy guardian archangel. Or the other archangels are not interfering? To some way, yes, but not just forcing you to do that or that, because these things you have to learn from above, looking down from the other dimensions, from the world of other dimensions. Can a human being help another human being? Yes. Yes, and that's the duty of those calling themselves the invisible helpers. This is the work also of the holy archangels, doing it. These beings are helping the human beings to regain themselves their rights in the reality. This was the reason why El Shaddai, the Locust, had been humanized and incarnated into a human being, Joshua Emanuel, the Christ, the Moshiach. So we see that from another point of view. This is the duty of everyone, every human being, to understand that he is everyone else in the oneness of the Locust. And if a man is transgressing, all of us are transgressing. You should never criticize. But love. Only love can just cure the wound from transgressions. Don't see the fellow men around you transgressing, but feel if they are transgressing, that you are transgressing because you are a human being as they are. This is what Joshua Emanuel, the Christ, was teaching all the time. Of course, he didn't say, love your enemies. It has been put out in the wrong way. He says, love those who are considering themselves your enemies because they are you. You are a human being. They are human beings. All of you are in my oneness, just expressing even a petty personal self. You are in my selfhood. And how did he come? To shorten, to get the burden of the transgressions of the human beings, because he considered being human, the son of man, that all the human errors and transgressions were his. But who understood, really, this meaning? Nobody. And if I said in one case, whatever Joshua Emanuel, the Christ, was teaching, everybody was getting it in his own interest, putting it in his own measures of thinking. They could never enter in the real meaning of Christ. And avoiding a sentence or something, you change completely the meaning of everything. When he was on the cross, nailed on the cross, just a few minutes before giving himself to Allah, to God. Now, was in that body, nailed on the cross. Joshua Emanuel in it? Yes. To the last moment. Then he came out. He said, Father, to you I commit my spirit. What did he say? First of all, the language Joshua Emanuel, the Christ, was speaking, his mother language was Greek, because the Essenes were Greek-speaking Israelites. And Aramaic also. Two languages. We are talking their homes, the Essenes. On the cross, he was speaking in Greek to his people, to his mother, to his disciples, to all of them. But he was saying things in Aramaic so that he would be understood by those who were there, his accusers, the rabbis or the chief priests of the Jews, of the Sahadrin. What did he say in Aramaic? Which means, my God, my God, why you have forsaken me in them? Since they are me, I am in them. Themselves are part of my selfhood. Why you have forsaken me in them? Not in me. And just a scholar in Aramaic, who told me that he had short weakness on the cross, he said, no, you are mistaken. He didn't. Just in Aramaic, he said, I said, no, I didn't see that. Now you understand it. Fortunately, the Aramaic language was such that a dot was changing meanings. That was the language of that time. So, and he continued. What was the last sentence he said? Feeling that they are in him, in his selfhood, being in them. And they had been forsaken in him by Allah for the time being. Father, forgive them. They don't know what they are doing. And then, he came out. He didn't die. He came out of his material body to do other kind of work in other dimensions. Because it was not only the human beings living in a cross material body like pigs in a mud that he came to save. He had to work in the psychical plane for three days. And very few know what was the work of Joshua Manuel in the other dimensions, in the works of other dimensions. And he came back healing the wounds, the bruises on his material body, to raise up his material body, entering them and present himself in that material body. Was that necessary to do it? Yes, for the human beings it was necessary. Come and touch it. Touch me. You have seen this body dying on the cross. You have put it for three days in a cave tomb. I have raised it. I have come to you. Come. That was his teaching. You are not the bodies. You are not the human beings. You think you are. You are gods. What is the ministry of Joshua Onair, which is greatly misunderstood, to tell us what is life, love, immortality, immortality of our real self-ego, our spirit, soul, self? Yes. That was his mission. That was the whole mission, isn't it? On this cross-material plane. Now, you are called the seekers or the researchers of the truth. What is truth? What is truth? What did he say? I am the way, the course of things, and the truth, and the life. So what is this system of the seekers of the truth except Christian mysticism, of course, free from fanaticism, from dogmatism, from narrow-mindedness? I said many, many times that the best friend of a researcher of the truth today is the New Testament, as it is even now. It doesn't matter. There is in it the truth. You can find it. You can trace it. And I add also, shall we think that all other systems of the East are not good? For example, Buddhism. In Buddhism, I find Christianity. The whole Christianity is in Buddhism. They are not different. When I was teaching some Buddhists, and somebody told me, I said, but you are speaking like being a Buddhist. I said, I am a Buddhist. Of course I am a Buddhist. He said, aren't you not a Christian? Of course I am a Christian. A true and good Christian. How can you be a Buddhist and a Christian? He said, the principles in your believing and in Christianity are the same. So you must understand this. Never despise any other system before seeing what it is in it. And what you should just value are two things. Love and life. And brotherhood. So that you will enter in the oneness. Now, the lesson today, you got much information about our plurality as a personality. Our, what we call, elementals. Thought forms. When you just unfold your self-consciousness higher, you will be able to see them. To see the form of these elementals. Children are seeing them. And they see sometimes what we call nightmares. I had just an experience. A husband and a wife came to me one day and said, our little daughter is shrieking all the night. We go, she is embracing us, kissing us, crying. And she is describing seeing things fearful. What are they? I told her, you are wrong. You are mistaken in your way of life. You are quarreling. You have certain differences due to your egoism. One will dominate over the other. Even you come to the point of slapping each other and quarreling. But our child had never seen us quarreling. Sometimes when you have differences to say, we send the child to their grandmother. She had never seen us. She is seeing the elementals you are creating and they are in your home the time the child is sleeping. And I can see what your child is seeing and shrieking. One was looking at the other, the husband and the wife. What do you think? That both of you are beasts, fools. You love each other, yet you express yourself in a satanic way. You are trying to dominate over the other. They understood. They have changed completely their character for the sake of the child. The child from that day didn't shriek at night to wake up and shout and cry. And they found out how they should live since they loved each other in the proper way, in the good way. Now you know what elementals can do. They can cause even accidents. Believe me. Is that right? I am telling you. Many times I see these elementals in certain places where just a crime or something is committed. They are there. People are passing. Do these elementals attack everybody? No. When you are a good fellow, loving, good-hearted, you can pass and there may be hundreds of them. When you are approaching, they are going away. And then they come again back to the place. If you have in yourself the same vibrations, hating people maybe, these are elementals of hatred. Or quarreling, doing something, they will come and attack. Because evil attacks evil. Then you may have a car accident. So never be afraid of any of these elementals. You have a loving heart and a pure mind. But if you are feeling, co-vibrating with these vibrations of wicked elementals, your wickedness is punishing you. So one, without knowing it, is punishing himself. There is not any punishment from God. God is loving. There is no punishment from any archangel. The archangels are full of love. They are working, curing wounds in the body of a criminal and in the body of a saint. Who is punishing? You yourself. So, what is the shield cutting you from evil elementals? Either directed by the others or your own elementals. You have to dis-energize them. Pure heart, loving heart. So I'll repeat what Joshua Emanuel said. Love those calling themselves your enemies. Because they are you as human beings. You belong to the human family with everybody else. And hating the others, you are creating poison in your own body. That means leaving elementals of evil in your personality. Now we'll make an exercise. Relax completely your material body. But feel you are in your material body. Now, you are living in your material body. The holy archangels are working in your material body. Know it. They feel you. And also God. In His omnipresence, God is in your body also. With you. With your personality. Whatever you ask God, He is ready to give it to you. Anything material. But we ask Him also to lead us also while being in temptation. And deliver us from evil. He said that in Greek and in Aramaic. And lead us while being in temptation. And deliver us from evil. And lead us while being in temptation. And lead us while being in temptation. Hatred, even if you think you have the right, you have been wronged, is poison in your body. For your sake, for the sake of the health of your body, take out of your mind. All negative elementals, anger and hatred, are deadly poisons to the material body. Even complaints. Because at the root of the tree of complaint is called the serpent of hatred. It's called the enlightened one, Lord Buddha said. Some of you adore Buddha. You have studied much of Buddha. If you like to be Buddhist, be Buddhist. And be good Christians also. Because there is no difference. 03 - Labyrinth Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. Lead us while being in temptation. Deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute infinite beingness God, everlasting life, love, and mercy. Lighten our minds to understand you as the truth. You are manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen. Many people in the past, wise people, wanted just to know the truth. What is life? Who is man as a human being on the planet? What is life in the manifestations of life, in all the phenomena of life all around us? Yes, these were the wise ones, very few. Most of the people at all times had different things to engage themselves and their minds with. Delusions. Just the way they were living. Living subconsciously under the impulses of their time and place, let us call it self. Why not self? And you call it self because in reality it is the reflection of the self and not the self. It is that reflection on the mirrors of matter, that image in the mirrors of matter, emotion, and thought, the mind, that we make the mistake to think that it is our self, which is not. So, if you ask any man, any person, male or female, around you, what is life? The only thing he will say, I am living, that is what I know, that I am living. Yes, but tell me what is life? They cannot say. Then we ask something else. Instinctively, people believe out of necessity to the existence of a God. Why? How did this idea about the existence of a God or Gods came to the human beings? We said out of necessity. During the past, from the time of the cavemen, the human beings were facing many, many dangers. They were feeling that they couldn't call with life alone. They wanted to find something or somebody to help them superior to their power of just to cope with life. So, that necessity made the human beings create Gods of their own imagination. And studying just this matter in the past, we find out that human beings at all times, in all periods of time, have created such Gods, which were having their own characteristics. They are cruelty, they are vices, everything. Now, while studying these things, we will find it out. And we will understand by the Gods. These people, on certain periods of time, they are worshipping, are reflecting their own character, their own way of living. But what is interesting is not the Gods. The Gods, the stuff they are made of, is the same. Of all the Gods who have existed during all the time in the period. But the Gods are different now. Different names, they get names. They give them names. And the way they needed them to help them. Of course, now we know what were those Gods. And I'm asking you, did these Gods in the past, all these Gods, all over the world, in all the periods and in all the places on the planet, did they exist? How many are these Gods? Thousands of Gods. Some we know, the names, some we don't know. Did they exist? I'm telling you, yes, they do exist even now. They existed and they exist. What were those Gods? Mind, shaped, taking the form and the characteristics of those creating them. Now we know because now we know what is the mind, a super substance. It's one of the studies a seeker of the truth must engage himself with to know what is the mind. It's another branch of study. But we know that subconsciously, the human being on the planet, all the time, from the primitive man of the caves living, was using the mind subconsciously, without knowing it. You say now, are people now not using again the mind subconsciously? I say 80% of their life is subconscious, which they call it waking life, but not self-conscious life. Now, who said? We live, nobody can deny that, he is living, breathing, walking, they are under the same needs, just to keep the material body alive. This is the instinct, we call that instinctive consciousness. Many human beings are living. That's life, the phenomena of life. Human being is one of the billions and billions and billions of the phenomena of life. On the planet. But what's the difference between a human being and all the other phenomena of life around us on the planet? It's life. We said yesterday that the rocks are living, the crystals are living. What science says, inorganic matter is living. It's undergoing certain changes. Then we have from that inorganic matter, we call it matter, in reality it is mind solid. We see the elements, water and all other things, and then there is life in them, there is life in the water, in the seas, in the lakes, in the oceans, everywhere there is life. Then I see life on the land. Billions and billions and billions of phenomena of life in the vegetable kingdom. We said we have also life in the animal kingdom. Again, billions of phenomena of life. But what is the place of a human being in all these phenomena of life? What we are like all the other phenomena of life and what we are different from the other phenomena of life. What are the similarities? Now this is something a seeker of this truth has by observation and using the mind in the right way, meditation, to reach at least the relative truth for the time being. Which means that the human being can use the mind in a different way than the other phenomena of life around him are using the mind. Though subconsciously he is doing that, he expresses a kind of self, time and place based self, which the animals around us are not using, are not expressing. So they are living, they are expressing life, they are just expressing not a kind of self but a kind of living existence. Now what are the things that are common between us and all the other animal life and vegetable life? All phenomena of life to exist, now we enter in the world of existence, should definitely have a form. Nothing can exist without having its own form, not one form, there are billions and billions of forms, an ant, a worm, a plant, a nice flower, an animal, any animal, any kind of animal, everywhere, to exist should have a form and get a name. A name, who is giving this a name? When I say having a name, I don't mean the name we are giving to that phenomenon of life, its name is different from that phenomenon of life having a name, because names are words, sounds, and for something, different people are giving different words, water, nero, moia, aqua, it's the same thing, yet the name is different, but what is the real name of everything having a form? Its vibrations, and not the sounds we are using just to give a name to the things, so nothing in nature has its proper name, we are giving it a name, but of course everybody is seeing a glass of water, it doesn't matter if an Englishman is saying, oh that's water, there is an aqua, there is a nero, what is just the impressions giving water to a human being, that's its name, the vibrations and the ability of knowing and understanding what it is, so for everything we should enter in the meaning of that thing and not simply in the words used by certain people for something. Now, what's the name? Not in words, but in reality, common to everything around us, the meaning given to us with the words we are using, meaning life, even for that we are using different words, so I'm asking you now, what is life? Can you understand what's life? To understand, yes, to know, not yet, but we can know sometime, for the time being, that petty kind of self, each one of us is expressing, making the mistake to think that it is our self, cannot know great truths, but even so, the heart of our time and place-based petty self is the self. Now, we'll study more deeply the problem, if I have 20 people here, men and women, and ask them, who are you? Everybody will give me the correct answer, veiled with an illusion, which is the correct answer? When I ask somebody, who are you? I am George, the other, I am Peter, the other, no, I am Alex, I'm Mary, I'm Helen, I laugh and I said, yes, you started well, finishing with an illusion. Everybody said, I am, that's your name, that's what you are, the other is artificial. You may say, I'm a man, I'm a male person, I am a woman. Even so, these are characteristics of the phenomenon of life of a human being on the planet now, today. We'll study, why? Why it has been a man and a woman? Then looking around in nature, I see these two kinds of the nature of life. I can see it in the animals, male and female, I can see it in plants, I can see it everywhere. Now, it's another branch of study. Why? This is why you are said, just to have a manifestation of life as a phenomenon, I must have the two, let us call them poles. They're saying positive and negative. No, positive and counter positive. They're not negative. It is a wrong expression, positive and counter positive. And then it continues again, just in great numbers, and when you see it, what is positive is the counter positive of something further and before it. And then when you go there, the positive becomes counter positive. So it's positive in a different expression. But I have now what I call the duality. I'm afraid I'm not allowed to speak more about this duality, because you enter to the divine mathematics, and if one knows much, he can even make materializations and dematerializations. So I'll stop to this point. What I can say is that the law of duality is necessary for the manifestation of the phenomenon of life, and maybe the creativeness in it. Maybe. Now, we are living on the planet, being either a man or a woman, having the attraction, live this common life, union, and making a family and children. This you can find it in all the countries all around the planet in the world. So we'll study what we call general things and behavior in life, but we shall start to understand what is life. Life is far different to what I call way of living. What we have common is life. But we have the way of living, which is very different, the way of living of the one person from the other, of a man from another man, of a woman from another woman. So, a seeker of the truth is studying all these things by observation and right thinking and meditation, which means that a human being is different from other phenomena of life around us, just lambs and cows and dogs are living, but they never engage. They are phenomenon of life, I don't call it self. With these problems, all dogs are living, animals are living their own life. They don't care and they don't bother about what is life. But the human being now faces different problems. Who am I? What am I? Which means that this, just I call it tendency of knowing, of using better the super substance of the mind, which is not the mind ourself, it is the means we will use, is giving certain characteristics to this form of life I call a human being, which is leading us to the same conclusions always, to the conclusion of all these wise ones have come to through the centuries, to understand what is self. Now, this is a very, very difficult problem and matter to deal with. What is the self? And why it is difficult? Because human beings make the mistake to think as themselves, their own self, their reflection on the mirrors, the mirrors of the mind as matter, emotion and thought. So, it needs just much observation and hard thinking, deep thinking to find out, but who am I? Am I that reflection or I am something else? Reflecting a kind of time and place self on these mirrors of the mind I call material body, psychical body, body of emotions, the ethical body, the body of thoughts. If I tell you yes, you make the mistake to think that these mirrors is yourself. Shall you accept it? Many are willing to accept it. When they say I, they show on their material body and they think that their material body is itself. Now you say, how do we come out of this labyrinth, of this maze of illusions? By breaking the mirrors. God is doing it every few years for us, to wake us up. You are not what you think you are. But slowly, slowly, slowly to understand that we are the real self and we have just to take out from our self what we think it's our self, the things we are covering ourselves with. Nobody is ready now living in a material body to accept that he is not the material body and that kind of self expressed as emotions and thoughts. Yet this is the truth. So, what is the work of a seeker of the truth? To start, study its image, the reflection in the mirrors, that is the material body. Study the emotions, everybody's own emotional life and make comparisons. They begin to compare the material body with the material bodies of others. Now, compare the emotional life. Everybody is living and then there will be a burning why, why that and why that and why that. What it gives, this kind of character to this person, male or female. And then, is that my only expression as a self, as a human being? No. It is the way of thinking now. But people are not thinking in the same way. And then study the union of thought and emotion and then separate them to study them separately. It's all the time the mind. Yes, it is the mind, but it is the different expressions of the mind now. I have it as an emotion and I have it now as thought. And what am I doing? Mixing them up, mixing water with earth, both clean and nice to make a bad smelling mud. That's what we are doing. Human beings, by mixing up matter, the emotion and the thoughts in a way which is not the proper way, you are creating that muddy, bad smelling, self of yours, which I call it part of the subconsciousness. We are using many times this word human subconsciousness, but very few know what we really mean when we say subconsciousness. Subconscious way of living a man is not only vices, weaknesses, sins and the evil way. The seeker of the truth by observation and hard thinking, this is what we call subconsciousness, the time and place, space expression of the superconsciousness. Because it is through the subconsciousness whole you will enter in the superconscious existence and beingness. I think it's rather difficult to understand what I mean now, but you will know it after you practice what I call the right meditation, always the observation in it, and hard thinking, in what I call introspection. Now again in introspection, all the life of human beings now today, it's being out of their real self and being influenced and enchanted by the phenomena of the world outside of themselves, the phenomena of life all around us. And of course, this influences on the petty time and place kind of self, destroying the interest of this self. The fellow just sees that around us is matter, matter in various ways of existing. Subconsciously, emotionally, he feels first of all the need to know what it is, anything around us. We call that desire. So a human being, a man or a woman, is under the influence and the pressure of what we call desire without knowing what is desire. Because if they knew, they wouldn't just give up and surrender to desire so easily. They should study it before. So this kind of desire, at first of knowing what it is, we approach, we see, we touch it. We are using the other senses, not only sight. First of all, a human being doesn't care to know what he's seeing, to study that. So there are many, many things one should know. Now, touching and finding something, something, the beginning, all created by the Holy Archangel in nature or around us at the beginning. The desire becomes a need. The man thinks it's a need. In reality, it is not a need. But it's just an influence of having it, at first knowing it, getting knowledge of its existence, and then having it. Later, man created from matter and from what he found already in nature. Diamonds, jewels, precious stones, all are ready-made. And make something that he thinks it's nice for him to make. And then that thing again, because that's the nature of matter, has in it just this influence to influence people to have it. It exercises this influence, everything around us, on human beings, seeing things, to have them. At first, to know what they are, what it is, and then have them. Now, a seeker of the truth must find out what is this feeling of possessiveness, from where it comes, and where this feeling of possessiveness is leading us to. To a crime, maybe, sometimes, many times. Stealing, or thinking probably how I will have what I call the legal ways of having it, buying it, having the means of buying it. But there are many, many things a seeker of the truth has to engage himself with to know. First of all, what is desire? And how that feeling, let us call it feeling, is impressing and affecting me as a seeker of the truth. Now, more sober and reasonable thought now, using now what I said, observation. It's not only the think, it's the how, which means the thought, how can I have it? What subconsciously a human being is doing, nearly all human beings have done until now, enslaving subconsciously what I call the super substance of the mind, making mind and thought slave of the emotion, of that desire, to serve the desire. Instead of the mind being the master, now it is not the servant, the slave. That's what's wrong. And, of course, in the process of all these things, this petty time and place kind of personality, which is not the real self, is entangled to it. Now we find a person, a man or a woman, just in this maze, in this labyrinth of illusions. Now we see the petty time and place self-reflected in the three mirrors, matter, the material body, things all around us, the material things, the emotions, the feelings, and their influences on us having it, getting it, possessing it. That we have many, many, many things we can have. If somebody else is depriving us from that something, we call it ours. Now it's a different thing. By hot right, we call it ours. With this feeling of possessiveness, we have also this illusion of calling things ours, as belonging to us. If somebody will deprive us of something, the next thing, a jewel, a house, something else, what is now the reaction in that petty time and place personality? Now this is something we must study. That reaction, creating what? Enmity, hatred, and who are these things leading to? Leading to a seeker of the truth just to learn the ways human beings are living. We said life is common and general, but the way people are living is different. Now we have to separate these two things, life itself and the way of living. That's life, I said, is common. Nobody cares to know what is life. Everybody cares about his way of living. But life is everlasting, continues. The way of living is not. And especially if one entangles himself with the things which are impressing him or her, property, possessions, and all these things. And Joshua Manuel de Christ said a parable. Someone said, I had a very, very good harvest this time. He had, no, God had everything. He had everything ready. And where shall I store up all these possessions of mine? I've just built other barns, how you call it, storehouse, to collect these things of mine. And as he was thinking, he heard God saying, foolish person, tonight they ask from you to give your soul. All these things you have prepared belong to whom? Because in this parable to show that everything around us is not our self. We care about everything to know what it is to be under the illusions of possessiveness. And we don't care who we are, what we are. And thinking that our self, our soul, our being is everything around us, loving that, we lose it. And hating what we are, our inner life, we gain it. If you hate the outside expression of life. He said that in Greek. This who loves this expression as himself thinking it is his soul, will lose it. We are living now in the world of existence, in the world of the continuous change. But the one who doesn't care about it, hates all these things, doesn't like these things, will find out who is he as his soul. But how many really did understand what Joseph Manuel de Christ said at that time? Now, we know, we know, just to some degree we know. Of course, we make mistakes. What exists in the world or around us through the five senses. And then we know again by study and observation that we know these things by using the mind. What is the mind? Even if you ask a scientist today, I have put this question to certain psychiatrists. I said, what is the mind? Shoot me in the head. I said, no, there is a handful of earth or soil which you call brains. And that's not the mind. That's not your mind. Because we will study that handful of matter which is the brains in the head, in the mind. Well, it is similar to all persons. Yet, the one is so different from the other. The mind of the one is so different from the mind of the other. So, we must know and understand what is the mind. Now, this is the most, most important thing, the most difficult thing even for the seekers of the truth to understand. What's the mind? You have given the definition, but you must enter in the real meaning of the definition. What did we say in the lesson? That when the absolute infinite beingness, God the Father, in it, apart from its nature of self-sufficiency, is also what I would call the pleasure of expressing itself in itself. We say that even in the prayer we are saying in the prayer. So, I see two different natures in the absolute infinite beingness. There are many, many more. Human beings without human intelligence can understand all these two states of the absolute beingness. The absolute beingness in its pleasure of expressing itself in itself becomes the absolute infinite beingness, the manifestation, the locus. What concerns us is this absolute infinite beingness, because it's not easy to know what's the beingness. But we can know much what is the beingness, which is the locus humanized to Jesus Christ, to Joshua Emanuel. We find a gate now towards the beingness. That was the aim of Joshua Emanuel the Christ to come down, to show himself as the gate, as a human being, to the absolute infinite beingness, his nature as El Shaddai, that means as the locus. We are calling ourselves Christians. We are not. We are far, far away from the truth concerning Christianity and the teachings of Joshua Emanuel the Christ, the God-man. He came to show us who we are and what we are supposed to be now. So, using the mind, which we should know the nature of the mind as super substance, we are using it already subconsciously. But you have to use it consciously. They come to the point, all the gods which have been created by human beings all through these years of the life on the planet were made subconsciously from the human beings, from the mind. And the mind is living. Therefore, whatever comes out of a living substance does live even now. There is no death in it. All those gods are now living as elementals in what we call it cosmic consciousness, the cosmic memory, which again is the mind, the super substance of the mind. And anyone who can raise his selfhood to those levels of the, call it super consciousness, will find what? In him. No need to go in space, in any place. That is in his own nature. Whatever existed is there, will expand his self super consciously to these high levels of different dimensions from the material, in which now is everything. He can find everything. Living? Of course, living. Because what had existed, exists. But limited to its own nature, only in its own place. I'm afraid I cannot say more about this matter. 3- How to become master of Time and Circumstances Now we'll make a meditation. Breathe deeply. Relax completely. Seize down every thought and every emotion in you. Concentrate in your breath now. Breathe deeply and feel the air filling your lungs. Breathe deeply. And ask. Who's asking now? You. Asking whom? Put the question. And sooner or later, sometime you'll get the reply. Who am I? If it comes before you. Your name and your sex and your present personality. Don't you know? I am. Put the question. You are only myself. Or something more. Who you are replying now is a shadow of the past. Today I am living. And I am asking. I am putting the question, who am I? I didn't ask you to come forward from the past. I didn't ask you to come forward from the past. Who am I? As life. As spirit everlasting. I am. What's that I? What is the I-ness in me? As life. What you are presenting me is my way of life. Your way of life. But I am not only you. You are a shadow. Who am I? Who am I? What is my I-ness? I am self-conscious. What is self? Don't try to get an answer. Put only the questions. Don't try to get an answer. Put only the questions. The answers will come from your guardian archangel in you. Now. I am living in this material body. Ich lebe in diesem materiellen Krper. Now I am living consciously in this material body. I feel it. And I know I am living in it. Yet very often I don't feel it. I am out of it. Entering in a state of nothingness. Which is not real. Who is recomposing me as a present day personality? What is that phenomenon of the recomposition of my personality? After entering in a dreamless sleep. In the realm of the phenomenical nothingness. Yet I am I. What am I? Now I live, I feel and I think. Now this moment. How it happens that now I am and I am existing. For so many thousands of centuries has passed in time as the past. Where had I been all that time? If I was not, how do I am now? What am I? As a living human being. As a soul ego being. As a soul self. Beyond sex, form. Or way of life. I want to separate life myself. From my way of life. Very different from the one way of life to the other way of life of others. I am life, living as everybody else. I will study the way of my life. And be the master of it. The master of my destiny. 04 - Labyrinth Now, there is something we should make it clear so that we'll not make a mistake. If one who represents a personality, that petty person, with a name, male or female, no, our real self can do that, will spread and raise itself to these dimensions of the self, real self, now super-consciousness, is reaching those heights in himself, in the kingdom of the heavens which is in us, in our own nature, he enters in what I would say the eternal present, eternal now. He frees himself from the limitations of what we call time as past, present and future. Now, I define them well but it's very difficult for me to grasp the idea unless you reach that stage yourself because by God and even reading books and all that you cannot know anything unless you know it yourself. I will give just an example which I have given many, many times. If I try to explain to you what something sold, how can I do that? If I present to you volumes of books of a scientist, H2, H3, mixing that and that, it gives us something sold and like that. Read as many books as you like. Many of you have read many occult books of this until now and you found out nothing. So, it's not reading or hearing or being taught of things that you learn them. So, volumes and volumes of books cannot tell you what is something sold. But if you come to me and I have just a little salt somewhere here, I tell you just put your finger on your tongue, make it wet, put it on this salt, put it back on your tongue and put it and I told you now what's sold. You will not say, now I know what is something sold. Why? Because you have experienced it. So, I'm telling you, teachers, gurus, masters, religion, everything are nothing but guides leading you somewhere. You have to know personally, otherwise nobody can explain to you more. And Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said, know the truth, you, you must know the truth, know the truth and the truth will set you free from illusions, not the teaching of others. I can't say that whatever we have is not valuable, valuable to guide you somewhere but that's not enough. You have to realize what it is in it, reject it if it is not worthy, experiencing it and knowing it or accept it and by accepting it is not enough. Practice and by practicing you will know. It's by putting your finger on the tongue, on the salt and then back again that you know what is something sold. Nobody can explain to you otherwise. Let's say now, yes, you are right, tell us how is that. That's example very, very nice. We know it, it's enlightening example. How can we come to this experience you are saying? I have given it many, many times. By certain exercises, in meditation, always be careful in what I call observation, using the mind properly in the proper meditation, reaching this, teachers we call inspiration, ecstasy, contemplation, then you come to the understanding yourself. You know what is everything as it is and you know who you are now. Then you take out of yourself that dirty, very dirty sometimes, coat you are wearing, considering it yourself, which I call it personal egoism. You throw it away and say, now I am clean and I know who I am now. With that coat rubbing yourself, you have the idea of death because sooner or later you have to cast it out. As long as you consider the coat as it is yourself, you will be afraid of the idea of death. But when you take it out, you know you are immortal. You know that you are God. Now I had a certain question from somebody. Do I take off that dirty coat, you say we call it egoism, egoism of the personality, by the death of the material body? Is this coat of egoism the material body? I say no, it isn't. It is something different because you carry it with you in the psychical plane and that coat is leading whether to your paradise, to your shell paradise or to your shell heaven. So you don't cast the egoism so easily, even by casting away from the self the material body. Do I cast this personality, egoism, the illusion about the self in the psychical plane? Yes, you will, the heavy coat you can cast away but you have another one under it, again belonging to the egoism. You have to take that out also, which is what I call the body of emotions. So you are not free even in what I call the psychical plane because in the psychical plane you have the shell paradises and the shell hells. You are in it, in them, shells, because they resemble a shell, wearing a coat, an overcoat, then a coat. Well, we take that out also. There is a shirt now which may not be white, it might be white, clean, but it may not be white. Shirt, which is the nautical body. You have to take that out also to feel naked and God. So don't think that by what we call death of the material body, you are free. You are not, because there is the psychical world and in between the psychical world and the material is the ethereal world. We don't stay there, we just pass from there, but we stay in the psychical world and you have just to be under the same troubles as we are on the material plane. Then, there, but now we are there also. We are living at the same time, we are living in our material body, more we are living in our psychical world, in our psychical shell, in our psychical body. It's not a matter now of changing place in space, but it's changing dimensions. We are going from the third dimensional place, space, to what I call the fourth dimensional sense of place, not space, in which, of course, plastics in the air, you find out that space, the idea of space, is gone away. Yet it is giving the sense of a place, good or bad, hell or paradise. But I said in a lesson that nobody would find himself after casting away his material body to any hell or any paradise, he is not already now. When we pass over to the other side, don't think that there are certain archangels and angels accusing us and devils catching us to classify us in this kind of hell or in this just pleasure-giving paradise. No, the archangels of the elements are loving us, are working for us to provide us with our material body, with our psychical body and with ethical body. They are working, they are helping us, they are loving us. They are not accusers. Then who is accusing us? Our own self is accusing us. This is the real truth. So, one finds himself or herself just where he or she is already, only casting out the material body. So, it's not a place we can just define the so-called psychical world of our planet, of course it is, the whole planet and many, many, many thousands of kilometers around it. But it doesn't touch any other psychical world of another heavenly body of our solar system, the psychical world. And where is the nautical world? In us. We are in it. Now, we are using the super substance of the mind. We are living now at the same time in the nautical world. But studying it, we call it psycho-nautical because there cannot be emotions and desires mind in it. That's why in certain books you'll find psycho-nautical, not only psychical. And if we separate it, it is just to study them separately. So, our hell or our paradise, our self-hell or self-paradise is composed of nautical mind substance and psychical substance. Now, in us. And Joshua Manuel de Christ said the kingdom of the heavens is in you. He didn't look at any place in space. In you. Now, it's the most difficult problem. In us. Where is that? In us. We know ourselves just a little limited mass of matter. We call it the material body. What do you know of our psychical body? I wish I could explain to you more, but you'll not understand because there are not words to explain. And what's the nautical body? Again, I come to the example. You have to put your finger on your tongue and taste it and know what it is. You live, you learn to live what I call self- consciously in the psychical world. With the psychical body, you will never be able to know what is the psychical body. You can know much about the material body. Just getting a book of anatomy, you can know much about it. So, this is to know much about the psychical body of yours before you live in it, you shape it, you make it just an independent from the material body vehicle for expressing yourself. And this is the work of a seeker of the truth. The same thing will happen with your nautical body. What I can only tell you is both the nautical body and the psychical body have a form, because nothing can exist without having a form. A form, but what's a form now? A form is a phenomenon in the material world. But what is that form of myself in the psychical world? What kind of space it occupies? It's very hard to think of it. What is it? As you are using the material body subconsciously without knowing it, you are using already. Subconsciously, you are a psychical body. If a fellow passes away, I had many times this experience, just experiences, passes over. I had this. And three sons, the one is in Australia, the other is in England, and the other is in America, and they just want to communicate with their father, who has passed over. Of course, they just calculate the time to coincide at the same time. They go to expert, we call them mediums, and the father is talking with the three of them at the same time. Where was he at that moment? In Australia? In England? In America? I had this experience. He was speaking and talking, revealing secrets which they didn't know to them, to the three of them, what the existence of some world has hidden, to go and get it. They got it. They came and they found it in Cyprus. Where was he? We communicated with him, asking him, did you see your sons? Yes, of course. They came to me. Came to me. Where? They came to him. Where was he? In his shallow room, in the Psychical Play. He thinks they came to him. Well, of course, they revealed this to some of the priests that told me, she's a devil. That was not your father who spoke to you. But our father had revealed to us that he had a bag of gold and we went and found it. Yes, the devil can do that. They have asked me, was it our father? I said, definitely it was your father. But where did he find us? I said, it's difficult to explain to you what it means place in the Psychical Play and what it means place in the Material Play. You'll never understand unless you know what the difference is between the three-dimensional world and the four-dimensional world. It doesn't only need the mind and meditation, but observation, much observation. Never jump from conclusion to conclusion, ideas from ideas, unless you are sure. Because as there are physical laws on the Material Plane, there are Psychical Laws in the Psychical Plane and all the realms of existence, because these are worlds of existence, are well ruled by this absolute, infinite, super-intentional intelligence we call the Locus. God in his two expressions, as we can understand, as El Shaddai, Locus, Hosea Kina, that means Holy Spirit. I'm using the word Jesus Christ Joshua was using, addressing the Jews. This is Aramaic. So, you'll find everywhere order, in all the worlds. A real seeker of the truth, seeing all that approaches these things with much reverence, because he knows, if you ask him, who is God? What is God? He'll say, I know! Where is God? In me, in you, and everywhere. Unfortunately, the first Christians, of course, the Apostles, writing the Gospels, in the Greek language, all of them, only a few parts of the Gospel according to Matthew is written in Aramaic, have taken out many great truths, but you can find them in the Cosmic Consciousness. You can contact Joshua Emmanuel the Christ now, because he's here, everywhere, in us. It's just only raising our petty little self-consciousness now to our real self-super- consciousness. Then, you can see it. When Joshua Emmanuel the Christ was preaching, stretching out his hands, saying to all of them, feeling himself as the El Shaddai, the Locus, says, my most beloved ones, offsprings of mine. Now, they leave something and they have taken out something else. And he says, I am the Lord. You are God in you. You are being. You are being self. You will love me, the Lord, in you, as you are being, and love me as the being of every other human being around you. That's why Jesus said, we are all. He was guiding us to the common Locus selfhood, taking us out from the just, but smelling mud of this so- called subconsciousness in the world of separateness. We enter in a different now condition of life. Now, we will not make the mistake that many Buddhists are making this mistake. It's growing. Our present-day personality will have so much. Losing it? Not it. It's subconscious we are losing. The time and place, impressions we are losing. Not the real, even petty self receiving the impressions. We are not losing it. But finding the kingdom of the heaven which is in us, everything will be granted to us. We are not going to lose even our present-day personality as Mary, Helen, George, and Alex. Because when we start absolute selfhood in those things, you know what you are as God. You know what you are in those plenty realms. But if somebody will ask you, who are you? You'll say, I'll not explain you who I am now because you don't understand. But I'll tell you, I am that fellow because that you'll understand, because that you know. I'm not losing even my personality. And a proof of it, when you reach that stage, you remember all your past incarnations, names, thoughts, way of living, which it means you are not losing anything. You are gaining everything. So reaching those, I'll call it stages, degrees of splendor, you know everything because God knows everything. And you are God. I don't say you are becoming God. You are not going to become something you are not. Now you realize what you are. I wish I would be allowed to speak more on these things, but Jochen is not going to say more. Not that he's keeping secret things. You will not understand and you will be more confused. So I'm asking now again, what's life? What I do is just show the way. Show the way which means you will have life. That will, I don't call it desire, to go that way. He said, I am the way, life and truth. He said that in Greek. He said,          . So he had shown the way. One can show you the way. Don't expect that one will get you on his shoulders and carry you. Because this is what most of the people want to, from someone guiding them to do. They tell you, masters, gurus, call them what you like. Avatars, call them what you like. Can be only guides, even books. Guides. You have to cover this way and go. And this way is, I'll put it now, in the right way. Instead of using the mind in the wrong way, now enslaving it in the desires and in the emotions, making that slave of your time and place, stupid egoism, personal egoism, free it. And you now, not influenced by your material, personal egoism, start using it in the proper way. Use it as a mirror, first of all, to see you are yourself reflected in it. And that, know everything concerning the self. Who you are, what you are. What you do it is just. Do it using your own nature, the willpower and observation. Now using the mind as the proper meditation, in introspection. Again, all the time you have to see everything according to the torch of observation. Nothing must escape from you. And then you'll find a way. When you find a way, yes, there you can find what with the right I'll call happiness. There is no such thing as happiness in the material world, or in the psychical world, or in the nautical world. Yes, in these worlds you'll find health and paradises of our own creation. We have to play. The Mount Supersat is the greatest gift given to the human beings by the Father. Now we must know how to make good use of it. Maybe studying the parable of the prodigal son, that will mean something to you. Now we'll make an exercise. We are using all the time the mind, subconsciously. Now we will use the mind consciously, not yet self-consciously, consciously. By using what I'll call visualization. It's not a difficult thing to do it. This insight represents the personality. You can bring in your mind, that means by visualization, you're seeing a person you love very much, or a person you don't like much, and you have differences with that person. So subconsciously now you can use what I call visualization. Now, relax completely the material body. Relax completely your emotional body, which means all differences you have with a certain person, silence them down. If you bring certain person by visualization before your mind, in your mind, then your psychical body will start its violent vibrations, and then things which are in you will get up in the surface, that hatred, anger, and many, many things, and you say to yourself, don't mention me that fellow, it makes me angry. That's what I mean. Silence down the emotional body, and bring fellows with whom you have differences in front of you. Be calm, quiet, see that fellow, calm that fellow down, because that fellow now in your imagination is attached to that fellow. See from your heart light, golden light, and rosy light, lighting everything around you, and see that light lighting the face of that fellow one or more, it doesn't matter how many you bring, and see that fellow under that light, of your heart, which is not your light, it is of the light of the world, I am the light of the world, which is love. See that face, happy, smiling to you, and then express yourself in words mentally, I love you, because you are a goddess, I am one. Never mind that we both have mistakes, and you are under the illusions of time and space, I love you, never mind, I said that you have differences, we are not going again to mix up ourselves with those differences, you are simply now on higher realms, expressing you, my divine nature to your divine nature, I tell you I love you. Do that every day, for certain people you have certain differences, whether you are right or you are not right, they are right or they are not right, that doesn't matter, differences do exist, and you can put down the fire by water love and not by fire, which is hating, that doesn't mean you undertake the obligation of approach again, and having your time and place personalities fight again, no need, you are a self now, you don't need any meeting with those fellows on the material plane. Now if you think, you think you could cope with this case again, and the differences will go away, by doing that you may influence that fellow and approach you, that's a different matter if you just to settle up your debts between you, but many people are not yet ready, but send love, the love of God in you to your brother in you, because having him in your mind by visualization is in you, hating him, the hatred is in you, and hating is a very very bad poison which is killing even your material bodies, that's why Joshua Banner of the Christ said, love your enemies, they may consider themselves your enemies, but you will not have enemies, you have only loving brothers and sisters under the influence of illusions in the three-dimensional world we are living in. Daskalos - 1991 09 17 Purifying Fires A discourse by Dr. Stylianos Ateslis, known as Daskalos. The identical thing that we now call Christian religion existed among the ancients and has not been lacking of the human race, leading up to the coming of Christ in the flesh, from which moment on, the true religion, which already existed, began to be called Christian. God who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God, and God in him. Absolute truth is a brilliant, many-sided diamond. The great light fills this gem, and colours gleam from every side. Mystics, messengers, sages, and teachers of all ages, races, and beliefs have spoken of a different face of this common eternal truth. Monotheistic, esoteric Christianity has been unfolding in human consciousness since time immemorial, as a clear and concise reflection of the truth. Our system for the research of truth is devoted to the esoteric Christian tradition. Our exploration of the truth, and our ever-increasing conscious engagement in Absolute Beingness's divine plan, is achieved through directed study, observation, exercise, prayer, and meditation. Our approach is methodical, safe, and self-evident. We seek to embrace the holy gifts, insights, and revelations bestowed upon us. We aspire to understand and attune ourselves with the divine laws, forms, principles, and causes governing life. We work in love's name, patiently and harmoniously. We value the balanced development and integration of our entire being, as we cultivate our emotional, moral, spiritual, and mystical aspects. Dr. Stylianos Attaslis, popularly known as Daskalos, has been teaching esoteric Christianity and healing for over 70 years. In the late 1980s, Daskalos, having lived a deliberately quiet existence, gained worldwide attention resulting from a number of publications describing his work and life. It was not long after that seekers from the world over began arriving in Strovolos, Cyprus, to learn more of what Daskalos was teaching. Daskalos began conducting public lessons in the Stoa to guide the arrivals. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Again, a repetition for the newcomers. God is always, eternally, is what we call the absolute, infinite beingness. Nobody can deny this beingness. God. And this absolute, infinite beingness has its multiplicity. The nature of this absolute beingness is, of course, self-sufficiency. But also, we see the real pleasure to express, to manifest itself, where? In itself. Since this absolute beingness is everywhere. So, starting raising our consciousness to high levels, we see that this absolute beingness, to express the Will, it means it expresses a kind of absolute, infinite self. It's one proof. The expression shows that this absolute beingness expresses what we call self. That means it knows what it is doing, since it expresses itself as the total wisdom. And we see that in the absolute beingness, in its multiplicity, every being now has this quality, having its expression as a self. You have the archangelic self-consciousness. And we know our self-consciousness in the various degrees. Of course, the archangelic self-consciousness is different from our self-consciousness. Can we know anything about this archangelic self-consciousness? Of course. If one succeeds to raise his personal, now, self-consciousness to the highest levels, which we call self-super-consciousness, he can come in self-conscious contact with any archangel of any order. And by expressing itself as attunement, that fellow knows now, by his own personal experience, what is the archangelic self-consciousness. Because in reality our spirit soul is an archangel. Not different from them. Now, by attunement later, he knows much, much more. Now, we stated what is. It is the everlasting life. There was never a time that life as a manifestation of the total wisdom of God didn't exist. Didn't exist. Which means expressed in the world of existence. From the world of beingness to different states now. The world of beingness, which is everlasting, eternal, we can know something, raising our consciousness to highest levels, but there are not words to express what we can get as a personal experience. Now, what we get as experience? Anything we can get in the world of existence. And the world of existence starts with the mind. Because we said yesterday, nothing which exists is not the mind. And then we said, the mind is the first manifestation and expression of the total wisdom of the infinite beingness, in its almightiness. So from the very first moment, the absolute infinite beingness, or any other being, archangelic being, expresses itself to manifest, from that moment, the mind is emanated from that being, as it emanates from the absolute beingness, God. Now, we have the world of existence, which is a manifestation, and to be manifested, it's necessary for the absolute beingness and the beings to use what we call mind, the mind. Now, the mind is not a handful of earth which is in the skull. These are the brains. The mind is everywhere. You can contact the mind as super substance, formless, we said yesterday. Much cannot be said just about this super substance of the mind. There are no words to express it. The only thing we can say is that the total wisdom of the almightiness is there. As what? As the laws, as the causes, the ideas, and many other qualities of the infinite beingness, and of the holy archangels, we cannot define as human beings. Then we see that this is the source, cause of what? Of the manifestation of the total wisdom of God, which are now the forms. So, these forms are now in what we call the noetical world. Now, we see this total wisdom of God not yet manifested or described as the cause. The laws now projecting what we call the forms. Now, what are the forms? Billions and billions of forms, of living forms, of the phenomena of life. Just another subject for study. And see to study. And by studying that form, we can reach to the conclusion that this absolute beingness, and the beings expressing themselves creatively, in the words of the existence, are expressing the total wisdom. As I said, the total wisdom is what we call the circles of possibilities, which are laws, causes, which can never be violated. So, using the mind now, as a reasoning, we can study just this phenomenon of life. The living forms all around us in the material plane. But the material plane is not the only plane. We have the living forms. We have the living forms in the psychical planes. We have the living forms in the noetical plane. Do we have the living forms in the noetic plane? No. It is not the forms. It is the causes of the forms. It is the ideas. But now, what is the relation between the ideas and the forms? It is another subject, very, very difficult to deal with. To write about it? I'm telling you that it would be impossible. To speak about it? Again, it would be very difficult or impossible. To know it? It is difficult, but not impossible. But you must raise your self-consciousness to the highest levels of self-consciousness to live this reality. By living this reality, you can only mention that the laws of causes, called ideas, are and exist as forms. They are eternally as laws, and they are reflecting. They exist as forms. So, one can get such experiences, but nobody has words in any language to speak about them and express them. So, we see now the mind as super-substance. The word of the ideas, the causes, the laws. And now we see, more tangible now, the word of the forms as substance. Then we see them having in them, all the forms, the instinct of living, of prolonging their existence, which is an emotion. Now, we see the forms in the psychical world. What is the instinct of survival? Just that. That feeling, that desire, prolonging the life. Now, we have the living form now, the material plane, the material world. What is a human being now? A living form, a phenomenon of life. But our bodies are living. Our personality is living. But is it only living, or is it life itself? We have to separate now these two expressions, living and life. So, by deep study, meditation, contemplation, all that, we come to the conclusion that our bodies are not ourselves. Because what is it that we call ourselves now? The time and place with circumstances, personality. So we express, all of us, through our material body, a personality. Mary and George, but as a personality, what do we know of the body? Nothing, nearly nothing. Now, the orthodox society tries to investigate the organs, the functioning of the organs, the functioning of the body, and all that. Of course, the seeker of the truth, in his meditation, in his deep study, knows much more than what the orthodox science knows now. But the orthodox science will reach that point sometime. And then what do we know? That certain intelligences, we call them archangels, belonging to certain archangelic orders, are expressing themselves creatively, building up, through the total wisdom of God, and having as their model the world of the ideas. The foreman, the idea of the heavenly man, they build bodies, they build living forms, all around us. Now, now there are plenty of these living forms around us. The orthodox science is doing it already, trying to investigate what are these living forms as trees, flowers, plants, animals. They have to learn more, still more, just to approach the relative truth about it. Now, God, the seeker of the truth, now, aims at to know what it concerns him, as a human being. What are my, are my the bodies? Knowing very little about them, or nearly nothing. An illiterate man knows nothing about his body, simply, subconsciously using it, by walking and manifesting its petty little personality through the body. What does he know about the circulation of the blood? About the work of the brains? And even the scientists, what do they know about the working of the brain? The glands? There are so many, many things, yet, science to discover. Yet, even an illiterate man, who doesn't know anything, lives in a very healthy body. Much healthier than our body, maybe. Who's functioning in that body? Keeping it in good order. Keeping all the organs in the body of that man, laborer, maybe, in good order. So, the seeker of the truth tries to investigate and know how, coming by deep meditation and observation, in contact with the archangels of the elements, who are ready to reveal their secrets to that intelligent one, as a personality, who wants to know. Christ said, knock and it will open to you. Seeker, you shall find. That's clear. But, therefore, it should be done by the personality to reach this level. Now, as I said before, the bodies are living. And when I say the bodies, I mean the material body, the psychical body, the neurotic body, and the etheric doubles. They are living. It is the work of the holy archangels, the lords of the elements. They have their own life, the bodies, independent completely from the life of the personality, expressed through them, and living in them. Is the personality of a man the product of the bodies? No. Because the bodies, they are very similar. Yet the personalities of people are very different. You are from the other. You can never find two people, even in the same family, even as twins, to have the same personality. So now we have to study the personality, our personality. What is that personality now? To start with studying. Because at the beginning it is very difficult to just understand much. But raising the consciousness of your personality, you can understand, find at least the qualities of your personality. What are the qualities? But to be a personality, it means using the mind. Because the animals, which cannot use the mind, they don't express any personality. So just this, only that a human being expresses a personality, is leading us to the conclusion that this self-personality is God. But what kind of personality do we create in the material world? These are things we should be studying. I said studying two people. You never find two people similar. Because they don't use the mind, all of them in the same way. And how do they use the mind? How do people use the mind? First, very little, a super-consciousness. As noetic super-substance. Formless. Very little they use it. I mean common people. As substance, as noetical substance. Because there you have to study the nature of things and reasoning the proper use of the mind. Few are doing it. And there in the noetical is the purified personality. Now, everybody is using that kind of subconsciousness in the psychical plane. Because really, the psychical plane, the so- called psychical plane, having nothing to do with the psyche or the soul. But because we are expressing emotions, that's why they call it psychical plane. So, in this, is the seat of the personality. Because it is the place of the emotions and the desires. So, our personality is mainly in the psychical plane, living in the material body, through the etheric double of the material body. That's why the personality of a man knows very, very little about the material body. Because in reality you are not living in the material body self-consciously. Who is living self-consciously in the material body? Unless he is a seeker of the truth, who practices studying, trying, by exercises, to understand his psychical body. Usually the people, nearly all the people, are living all the time in their psychical body, which they don't know. The other day I had a fellow who told me, look here sir, but you say we have a psychical body, the emotional body, where is it? I said to him, that's you, your personality. You are using it every moment subconsciously. You express desire, strong desire, emotions, and all that, by making the mind slave of the emotion. I don't think he understood. He must attend many, many lessons before he will be able to understand. So, we are living more in our psychical body than in our material body. But how? Subconsciously, not self-consciously. Now what do I mean by subconsciously? What is the subconsciousness? Subconsciously means placing in a part of your personality all the experiences as a lesson, either mistakes or correctly, and forms, scenes, the scenery, because you call, I remember that and that and that. What is memory? It is something you have to study and analyze. Where from does it come, memory? So, everything we see, even before thinking about it, creates an element which is stored in our subconsciousness as sometimes part of ourselves, of our personality. Because I said in a lesson, our present day personality is the sum total of the elementals we have created or re-energized and put them in our subconsciousness. So, our subconsciousness is our personality. And the quality of the subconsciousness just is the quality of the personality. So, when a person now, that personality of a man or a woman decides to study itself as the personality, now he expresses himself as the soul without understanding it. So, the present personality has in itself the soul which tends to get control. It doesn't get control in every body. No, the soul is waiting patiently. The offspring of the spirit soul, which is the present personality, with the work of the archangels, especially of the Logos, is a living, now being, not existence, being, because has in it the eternity, has in it the soul. So, a human being is also the personality. It is and it isn't. From the one side of expression, with the mistakes, it is. But from the side of living, it is. So, in the personality of everybody, man or a woman, is the spirit soul, one ray of it, giving life to the personality. Now, the personality, after getting its own life, lives her own life. Which way? Vibrating and being used by the so-called psychic body, the emotional body. Now, we said that everything is the mind. As super substance, substance, super matter and substance and matter. Even a grain of sand is mind. Everything is mind. Mind in different frequencies of vibrations. Vibrations, frequencies of vibrations. Motion, what is motion? The nature of infinite beingness. Just the nature of infinite beingness has in it the expression, the will or motion. Call it whatever you like. Because the will is motion. Now, later you will understand what is motion in time. Now you see motion in space. I think we entered again deep waters. Let's come up. So, we have now to study the mind. Because it is through the mind that we shall go to that conclusion what we are. Which is, we are not again the mind. But we are something beyond the mind. Now, are we the form? No. Because we can be without even the human form. And one of the exercises in the innermost circle is even to get rid of the human form and live in the formless noetic plane. And get it back any moment we want. Because we are gods. Justice proves that we are not the creation of the mind even as a form. But again we enter in deep waters. So, what are we now? As Mary, George, and like that. A petty self-personality created by the circumstances in time, in our times, and in a certain place on the planet. Yes, that's not. That's present personality. But the present personality is a living form. It was a living form all the time. Whether one is called Ashur or Christos. May be the same. Ego having these two names. So, as a living form, a manifestation of life, we are the spirit gods. But now, the behavior of that personality is mortal, it's not everlasting. It is under the law of continuous change. Which again is the will of God, this continuous change. How shall we find in ourselves, as a present personality now, Mary and George, what are we? Are we double? Yes and no. Because when we proceed and learn, we find that we are we. What about our expressions? Now we speak about egoism. Many make the mistake to think that egoism is the ego. No! The ego has nothing to do with our ego. Yet, it is the expression of our present personality. I'll give an example. Living example. I had a fellow before two or three years. He was a good man in nature. Married with four children. That fellow had very, very bad habits. After finishing from his work, going to the tavern, drink, come near this and go back home. And if his wife would tell him something, beat her. Every day he was beating his wife. He was beating the children. Crying. Just making such a trouble in the home. He seemed to be there. Of course, everybody didn't like him. They despised him. His name was really George. We'll use his real name. This lasted for some years. He expressed a stupid personality. Gambling, drinking, trying to deceive others. Circumstances forced him to do that. Behaving in a way devilish. Hated even by his wife and his children. One day he came to me. Told me, Lascale, said, What is it? I am a beast. Said, Who told you that? Yes, I am a beast. No, you are a good man. You are God. Said, What did you say? You are God. It is because you don't know. Of course, I know everything. I hear you shouting. Quarreling. But you are God. Only you are the victim of circumstances. A little bit. You are ignorant, that's all. I say lies. I know that. It is not you. It is your personality. I beat my wife. I know that. And my children. But I love them. I know you love them. In the one way, you express an egoistic personality. In the other way, you express you are yourself loving them. In reality, I love my wife. Of course, you should love your wife. And I love my children. Of course, you love your children. I want to change. I said, Who told you that you should change? And I don't know. He said, You are a good self. Do I have two selves? The good self and the bad self? No, you have all of them, except the good self. What do you say? As a bad self? No. These are circumstances in creation, just of illusion, of your egoism. Try to kill your egoism. Of course, he came to some lessons. In the beginning, he understood nothing. Because all the time he was hearing the lessons, his mind was the circumstances he was living in. But slowly, slowly, and thanks God I am very, very patient, he came one day and told me, Look here. You are right. I am feeling I am good. I said, No, you are good. He asked me to change. All right. Come to the lesson. He was coming to the lesson. Slowly, slowly, he had changed. Not gambling anymore. Not drinking anymore in the tavern, except with a friend, just a little. During supper or dinner, coming early home, take on his children and teach them their lesson, because he was very educated. But became the victim of circumstances, of his egoism, teaching his children. His wife came to me and said, You know, he just became an angel. Oh, he was always an angel, but you didn't know it. He didn't know it also, himself. Really. When he comes home, speaking gently, now he is so tender with me. Just... No, don't tell me what he is telling you. Yes, he is very good and gentle. Yes, he became a different person. No, he was all the time George. That's what I say. Both ways, we are we. We are not going to abandon any kind of self-consciousness by giving up a stupid egoism and giving up weaknesses, stupid desires, and stupid emotions, because all these are not ourselves in reality. We make a mistake to think that all these are ourselves. Now, this fellow is not in Cyprus now. He is leading one of the best circles and I am very proud of him. Now, with his wife and his elder son, they are running a circle of our order, which means there is no one who is evil or bad. All people are good because all are sons of God, of the Almighty Father. This is the way you have to see everybody around you, no matter how that fellow, for the time being, is behaving. Stupidly, maybe. It is because that personality is in the ignorance and when he knows the reality, nobody can help you not becoming good or expressing your good self. So, human beings try to see what is good in them and not what is not good. So, now, what is the personality of a man? Good or evil? Who is the personality of this fellow? George. No, it is not personality. He has the word. To be named George. Who is that George now? Our bodies are changing continuously. Our personality is changing continuously. Have that in your mind. All desires and emotions are changing. This is the law. What we call our thoughts from being slaves to the emotions and to the desires are freeing themselves because I mean the elementals, the good elementals. And now, they make our personality a better personality. So, come to the conclusion, our present day personality and our personality at all times in the past and our personality as it will be in the future will be, it is and will be the sum total of the elementals composing it. So, we should see good elementals either we are recreating or we are revitalizing. Now, stick to this point. We will see good elementals. We are creating now or revitalizing. So, we are not the sum total of the elementals ourselves because we can choose, come to conclusions and express ourselves in a different way now. Now, in deep meditation, in what I call introspection, looking within, making the analysis of the so-called self of our personality now, who is doing it? We now, the soul. We are not doing it as the sinful personality. We get the control. We are the soul now, yes. Are we now different to what we were before when we are considered sinful and stupid? Of course, not as the nature of your beingness. You are different in the expression. That's why I say, one has to annihilate that part in his personality called egoism. Egoism, egoism of the present personality which is not yourself in reality. It is the sum total of certain kind of elementals. And one should study deeply what are the elementals. Now, we said in a lesson, we repeated, by seeing something, even without thinking of it, an elemental is created in our subconscious, which is where? In us and everywhere. What do you mean everywhere? You can contact the subconscious of a man miles away only concentrating on the man, which means, since it is the mind, it can be not only confined in the material body, in the psychical body or in the neurotic body. When it is broadcasting, it spreads out and any receiving apparatus can get it. That's the nature of the mind in what we call the etheric double. Now, it's a different subject, subject to study. So, now, we have to check what are we as sum total of the elementals composing our personality. It is not difficult just to see what we are accustomed of revitalizing as elementals. That means checking our emotions and that. That means looking within. Now, it's a misunderstanding again. When we say looking within, the present, the personality, but that's not the within, which is the kingdom of the heavens, which is within us, because that within is in the spirit soul and not in the present, the personality. Yet, we say within again. That's within. A room or within the space. It is what we mean by within. So, first, we must study what is within the present, the personality. By introspection, looking, as we said, within and criticizing the behavior of our personality. Criticizing the behavior of the personality. Many believe to the reincarnation theory, which I'm telling you, it is a fact. It's not imaginary. And they say, why don't we remember previous incarnations? Why did God deprive from a man a personality, present a personality, the memory? That's a divine mercy to give that personality the opportunity of proceeding forward and not looking backwards. And maybe by remembering, it will not be possible for that personality to advance, because there are weaknesses. Now this personality is getting slowly, slowly rid of, which by remembering, it will come back again. So, it is the wisdom of the infinite beingness depriving a man of the memory. Yet, I'm telling you, when a man reaches a certain stage, degree, level of consciousness, in which by remembering that person would not be influenced, definitely he will remember. But, I'm telling you, the lesson each one of you had received from all your previous incarnations are within you now, within your present personality. A fellow born now is bringing to the new personality all the experiences of the past personalities. This is what makes you different from the others. Even two twin brothers born in the same family. So, instead, every one of you are all the lessons you have received in previous incarnations. As predispositions, tendencies, talents, fears, and so many things. So, no need to remember past incarnations. Look within you, make a self-analysis of the present personality and see where you are now. Study the way you are feeling and thinking because, instead, everybody are all the lessons received. From that point on, we'll start progressing. Not necessarily looking backwards. When somebody asks Joshua the Christ, God-man, about the reincarnation, though he himself stated the reincarnation in the Gospel, they have asked him. He said, look here. The one, the farmer, who places his hands on the plough should not look behind him hot rocks he had made on the ground, but hot rocks he is going to make now, looking forward. Because many, reading this part of the Gospel, they say, but who? Why he said that? Of course, there was a previous talk which certain clergymen have taken out from the Gospel. For what reason? We don't know. But even leaving that, one can understand what he meant. So, now, everybody, in the introspection, should know he'll be face to face with his subconsciousness and the sum total of all his lessons and experiences from previous incarnations are there stored. I said, as fears, predispositions, tendencies, talents, hatreds, narrow-mindedness, maybe, on certain things. Now, I'll give an example. You have certain experiences, and you are you, remembering your name and your aims, what you are doing. Necessarily, you sleep at night. And most of you, for hours maybe, enter in a state of nothingness. You don't remember anything. Which is a very necessary condition. Next day you wake up, and Mary is Mary, with the same desires, with the same thoughts, with the same predispositions, with the same program in life. Why? You have slept and you entered in that state which is nearly nothingness. Only simply your material body was leaving the circulation of the blood. More slow, breathing. But what about you as a personality? As a personality, you have entered a world of non-existence. But was that real? You woke up and you were you. The same thing is what you call death. As you pass out during a night and come back again, no, you pass out, you don't need the body. They create for you another body. You enter in it, but you are you. The same thoughts, the same virtues, the same tendencies and predispositions. The difference now is that you don't remember, because you have a new personality. You remember waking up in the morning because you have the same personality. So there is not any change in your personality. So even as sometimes you are forgetting and you have just to think, to remember again. In this way it is with the past incarnation. For me an incarnation is a day at school only. Nothing more than that. Just to learn. To learn what? Who we are. What we are. And coming back home. For me there is much in the parable of the prodigal son. But of course this needs much study and understanding. What is behind that? So, what are we doing in each incarnation? This we have just to meditate on. Making all the time use of the mind. But in what way we make use of the mind? In creating elementals composing our personality. What kind of elementals? You have now to study the nature of desire. The nature of the emotions. To study the qualities of our psychical body. And what influences All that in our psychological body is doing on whom? On our present personality of course. What an effect they have in it. And now as a present personality and as a soul also we get the decision to study them. Know them. Become master of them. Become masters of our emotions. Masters of our thoughts. So, we understand now our place in the creation and our difference from the animals all around us. We find our way now. So, the lesson which ought to be learned in all our incarnations is how to make good use of the mind. Just to see how we were behaving and being under the burden of the law. You call it karma. I don't like this word. Of course an effect good or bad to correct our mistakes. And to go forward. This is the aim of an incarnation. God is giving us that great gift we call the mind. Use it. The Archangels are giving us most graciously the bodies without asking them to do so. And we are in these bodies. We have just to realize this. We are in a material body living. And you have to think over this material body, what it is. Who gave it to me? Who is looking after it? Who is taking care of it now? To keep it in good health. So, these are subjects for study in deep meditation and concentration to reach contemplation. So, we have much to do for our benefit. And we give so little time, sometimes no time at all, making bad use of the mind to serve our present personality in court, in taking things all around us, calling them ours, which can never be ours, because we leave them when we go. I had the other day a fellow. He is very, very rich now. He was very, very poor when we were young, both of us. Because sitting in the lessons, instead of just finding out the truth, he found a way how to use the elementals for his benefit to bring him material things. I can't call him a black magician, because he never has done that to harm anybody, except catching just a truth I taught him about elementals, how to create elementals, how to send them to fulfill his desires and purposes. And using it for very poor man. Now he is very, very rich. He is in my age. He has four sons. His second wife, his first wife passed over, came to me. Oh, I am thinking of you all the time. It's a very, very long time to see each other. Yes, that's true. Yes, you know. I said, what really brings you here? Because I know. He said, you know why you are asking me? Because you should realize why you are here. Because you have done it subconsciously. He said, now tell me. He said, because you are afraid of death. And what are you going to do with the buildings and the property? You have just caught yours. Yes, you are right. Of course I am right. Yes, unfortunately, in the hands of my sons, who are not thinking reasonably, they spend it in a stupid way. Who taught you? You are more reasonable than your sons. His sons are our scientists. Coming back. What was your education? Comparison to the education of your sons. Why you come to this conclusion that they will make? Oh, they give it here and there. Maybe in a better way. Using it and in the way you used it. Do you know how much you have? In reality, no. But I have much. Because you will care. Why you are afraid of passing over? He told me, are you not afraid? I said, definitely not. Because I am going to this place. Every moment I go and come back. The difference is that I get the order not to return to this material place. That's all. Yes, but you lost so many years. In gathering and gathering and gathering and gathering. Yes. Why you didn't lot some to the banks in the other side? Is that possible? Of course it's possible. If you know the bank, in which bank, you just give some money to have them in the other side. Of course you can lot so much. But where is this bank? I said, inside with your heart. Give with love in your heart. Yes, of course I shouldn't come to you. Now you will just tell me to disperse my property. Take it with you. When you are pious, try to take it with you. I tell you that you can take something with you. Just there are so many orphans, so many suffering people. Are you sure you didn't cause much suffering to the others just getting money? No, no, don't tell me that, don't tell me that, no. Unfortunately I couldn't help him. Maybe when he will pass over, I will be able to help him more than being in his material body. But he will not be away. Maybe I will go before him, because he is very strong and hefty like a bull. Now, look here. The first thing we have to do, everybody, not only the seekers of the truth, what kind of human making of the mind, of that substance, super substance of the mind, God is entrusting us to do it. We can think, but how we are thinking? In which way? Then we see and study the nature of our desires and emotions. How they appear in us, those desires. By looking around us and seeing and comparing? Yes, that is the cause. You will find it out in meditation. Don't expect everything ready, because when you have it ready, it will not influence you so much as to get it yourself. So, start by introspection. See things which have happened not in the far distant past. And see your behavior. How much influence has been under emotions, which maybe are not pure and good, and desires. So, importantly, we have to enter in our subconsciousness and study the condition of our subconsciousness. Many are afraid to do it. They shouldn't. They have to do it. Now, to start suffering is another hypocrisy of your egoism. Because the egoism now, feeling that you have unveiled him, he tries to pretend that he repents. That is egoism. He says, no, no, no, no. I am good. You have been evil. I thought I was you. But now, what you are suggesting me is what is masochism. Which I don't know, I don't want it. So, importantly, looking in your subconsciousness, no need to criticize yourself. Just the state of things, yes, but not yourself. Because that is hypocrisy again of egoism. You have to annihilate egoism completely. So, no need of emotional stupidities as masochism. Now, I study things and I will come to conclusions. I don't have time to waste. This is what you need from the very beginning in the introspection or the self-analysis. And so, you find out that, yes, never mind, everybody all around me nearly made bad use of the mind. I made bad use of the mind. I am here and I have to get my lesson. And I get my lesson. And decide now, knowing the holiness of that super substance of the mind, we shouldn't make the past use of it, making slave to the emotions and to the desires of egoism, not of us. Because egoism presents itself as yourself. You have just to disentangle yourself from the present personality egoism. Then this is the lesson we have to learn. Each one has to learn sooner or later in all the incarnations. In your past incarnations, how much of this lesson you have learned? Why you should go back and remember that you have made very, very, very little progress in the past incarnations? Yourself as personality and as an egoist undergoing pain, suffering and many other experiences. So, we have, at least now, to learn more on the lesson you have to learn, which is check and know about our material body and the other bodies. Seriously, study and know. Especially studying our psychical body and its expressions. Check all desires and emotions. Now, desires. Analyzing our desires, what do we find? That a desire was created by seeing something, desiring having it, and seeing that others have it. For example, having a car. Now, before 500 years, Lopotikyan, having a car, he might have a mule, a horse, because he had not seen a car, a modern car. So, it is according to the circumstances. The same condition. At that time, that fellow had the desire of possessing, owing a nice horse, a lovely horse. Now, he wants a BMW. The desire is the same. The object is different. Now, what happens? A reasonable person. Do I need it really? What it would serve me for? At that time, he would think the same thing. Have a horse, what for? So, we have to see, if we need that something, we desire having it, then good. What are our conditions today? Do we have the means of having it? How shall I obtain these means of having it? Stealing? Killing? Deceiving other people? Working hard, getting money to have it? Well, this is the best way. If we have just to fulfill a desire. And then, seeing that desire fulfilled completely, and having that thing, it will not make a house, a car, a jewel, something like that. When that desire is fulfilled, it loses its value. We have just to study that. And soon we are after something else. And something else. And something else. Getting, losing interest on it. Desiring something else and something else, which means that desire has no end. So, we have just to study now, in deep meditation, what is desire. Now, desire creates elementals. You don't see these elementals, yet you are under their burden. They make you suffer, they crush you sometimes. So, studying now the nature of the elementals, because a clairvoyant can see them. A plain person cannot see them, but a clairvoyant, a seer, can see them. They tell you, they are terrible sometimes. So, you have to study the nature of desire. Then we shall start studying the nature of our emotions. This is the most serious thing. This was the plan that most of you have done during all your incarnations. What was it? The desire of possessiveness. You are having the desire of possessiveness, and possessing material things. Well, it was enslaving desire. But what about the desire of possessing living people? My wife, my children, my husband, I own him. Why should he want us? No, he shouldn't do that. He should do what I want. This is what we find everywhere in all nations now. The stupidity of the desire of possessing living persons. You have jealousies, quarrels, beatings, divorces, and people suffering. The children are coming to the world. Now, the children. You think they are your own. You are mistaken. It is not the love, the sexual intercourse, which gives the children, because many can do that and have no children. God is giving me children. So, they are not yours. They are entrusted to you. They are not your property. You have just to understand them, understand your responsibility, and teach them how they should live a proper life, instead of dominating over them. The first thing that we should just understand is freedom of thought for everybody. Freedom is the gift given by God to man. How to understand what is freedom? So, I gave you certain hints on how to use the mind as thought. How to use the mind in checking desires and emotions. We can talk for months without exhausting this subject. You have to study your own case. See within you, in your subconsciousness, the condition of your subconsciousness, what you call desire, emotions, and the storing up of these elements in dirty and bad-smelling mud, which are weaknesses, such as hatred, envy, enmity, the feeling of taking revenge, and all that. In introspection or self-analysis, each one has to study and take away from that great devil in the personality, which is the feeling of being wounded and offended. That's a devil, presenting itself as dignity. Being offended. Why they said that, and that, and that, and that? And you feel offended. Why? Why you feel offended? Each person is expressing his own thoughts, good or evil, stupid or dirty. Let him do that. Why you are offended? Because he mentions your name. So the feeling of being offended is the worst devil, torturing people, even persuading people to kill in the past, because creating duels and killing. You have offended. Now, we have to free our present-day personality from certain stupid illusions. Another illusion is fanaticism. There are so many, so many things you will find to correct in the introspection or looking within. And the aim of it, make now good use of reason, of the mind as a reason, to control all the circumstances, the desires, and the emotions. And free yourself from egoism. Understand that you are not the bodies, you are not the emotions, you are not the thoughts. Because you can master them, control them, and live free. Now, the best thing given you after this meditation is that you are not the mind. After all, becoming masters of the mind, you understand that you are not the mind. You are something else. What you are, we said, the spirit soul. What is the spirit soul? You have to find out. That's you. Yeah. I think this general lesson is showing you the way. Instead of scrubbing my face, I would prefer that you will get good. I am teaching. That is much better. Copyright  2020 Mooji Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Daskalos - A Knock and it shall be Opened 1 Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation. Deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your all-mightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. A human being finds himself or herself living in a human body, living in this material plane, nature, all around us. All this nature around us is all the time influencing us, throwing our attention through the five senses. We are living in this material world with our material body using the five senses. But how we are living? Just simply counteracting to the influences through the five senses. What is this kind of life in what we call the material world around us? Usually we call life the interest we show in what we call the material world all around us. But is it what we should call life? We call life just all those influences and reactions in us causing us interest, what we might say desires, and thinking over the desires. No. Most people do not use the thought just thinking and knowing what is what, but simply how this thought to serve the accomplishment of their desires. Nothing more than that. So human beings are living subconsciously without knowing why they are living and what's life. If I put this question to people around me, what's life? Would they be able to reply what is life? What do you think they may understand that it is life? Feeling, seeing, being influenced by the surroundings. What is in the world outside of our material body and receiving impressions through the light? The light. You ask them, what's the light? What is the role of light in our life? They never care. They simply live in their material bodies, as other phenomena of life are living, waking up in the morning, a phenomenon they never engage themselves to understand what it is. What's sleep? What's waking up? Who is waking up? What they care, simply the human beings now, is how to fulfill their desires or just the necessities of life. And so they find out that there are certain things which are most necessary. Taking food, searching for food, and they do it instinctively as all the other living beings around them are doing, just expressing what you call instinct. But you said in previous lessons, the human beings can use thought which the other phenomena of life in the animal kingdom cannot use. Yes, we can see a kind of intelligence in their expressions, but what are these intelligences expressed by the animals? Is it using the mind consciously, self-consciously, or these are other expressions? Now studying the behavior of the animals, we can detect the intelligence behind them, caring about those kinds of animals around us. The human being can see that he can influence all the animals, even the vegetable life around them. The human being can influence them subconsciously by thought. That means by casting elementals, which elementals, as living things can affect the animal life all around us. They do all that subconsciously, without knowing what they do. A human being feels he loves animals, cats, dogs, or other kinds of animals. He's keeping them with him, and he finds that there is a common ground of understanding between the animal and the human being. Is that the intelligence of the animal, or subconsciously the human being is creating an elemental which is attached to the animal and making that animal, that kind of life, bring that animal to him or to her? By what? By what we say love, interest, compassion. So we must study all these cases to understand, after all, what is animal life? What is life? What is our life? What common thing we have with the life all around us? So, a human being has the right and should use the mind in knowing things, in understanding things by observation, and meditation, and reasoning. Something animals around us cannot do, and he will find out that all animal life around us can express an instinctive, let us call it subconsciousness, which he or she is expressing also. But an animal, any kind of animals around us, cannot express a self- consciousness, have a name of itself, unless we give it a name. And he may listen to that name through the elementals we are casting and implanting in that animal. So a human being should use the mind to study and understand what's nature around him, living, what are the circumstances, the possibilities and probabilities in this, what we call, life in a material body, in a material world, so that we should go forward in studying what is this kind of self, which we can express, yet no animal around us in the material plane can express that selfhood. Mind, when I say self, is not simply using the mind in certain expressions as instinct or even subconsciousness. Consciousness, no animal is conscious of its way of living. All animals obey instinct. Now, what is instinct? We can see this thing in all the nature all around us. By studying it, we shall understand that kind of intelligence behind the phenomena of life, all the phenomena of life, not only, I say, in the animal kingdom, also in the vegetable kingdom. And we see much wisdom in it. That means we can trace the total wisdom of infinite beingness in all the creation all around us. And really, one should be wondering with this wisdom. One will observe that this wisdom serves for the protection of this kind of animal life or plant life in the material world. And you will be wondering, who is thinking? Is there any self-intelligent being behind it? For example, studying the cactus, many, many thousands of kinds, and each kind, the characteristic would see the protection. It has to protect itself from the birds and from the animals all around. Any kind of cactus is developing thorns. Who thought about it? To protect that kind of life. And then another kind of protection, the bear. When meeting a bear in the pool, the bear will find it having a white fur. A bear in the forests of Africa or of Asia will have a brown. Why? One to resemble the ice for protection, and the other to resemble the trunks of the trees and the surroundings, again for protection. Who decided to do that? So we see in nature, all around us, a kind of life we cannot understand, yet behind every kind of life, enough protection. Even studying the forms in which this animal life is expressed, we'll find again that protection. We call it the total wisdom of the infinite beingness. But this total wisdom of the infinite beingness is expressed also in the beings in the absolute infinite beingness, manifesting and expressing the absolute infinite beingness and themselves in the creation. So by observation and using the mind, we can learn many, many things. And we find ourselves living in an environment in nature most wisely looked after. And the only entity which is making blunders is the human being. The human being entitled to use the mind reasoning and thinking over things. Of course, he should do less blunders and live in a better way of life by using the mind. Now, is the human being protected adequately as all other animal and vegetable life around him? And yes and no. Why? We see a cat, dogs, animals, when winter is approaching, they grow hair to protect them from the cold. Who decided about it? Those keeping domestic animals will notice that in cats. Then when summer approaches, then they cast away the hair. Just to have it again when the winter period approaches. Is the intelligence of that animal that is doing that thing? No. And by observation and studying, developing in a human being higher forms of intelligence, he can come in touch with those intelligences. We call them angels or nature spirits who look after the animal and the vegetable life all around us and can trace this total wisdom of the almightiness, can trace order in nature and in the creation. So, studying now things. One should start to study that mind, ethereal vibrations we call light in the material world. What is light? It's most necessary in our life. Again I say those ethereal vibrations and frequencies of the substance we call the mind. One sees that light emanates from the sun and from anything combustible, burning, giving a flame. Who did care to study what is fire, what is light? Yet subconsciously man started using the fire without knowing what it is. Human being found out that this element, we call it fire, behaves in that or in that way on the combustible material things and he's using it but he never cared what it is and why is it like that. So, the human being today is lacking what I call observation and using the mind now and observation and concentration to find the relative truth in the material world around him. Now, let us watch light, the effects of light. During a very dark night you find yourself in this room. No light emanating from candles or from anywhere. It's dark. The chairs are here. Everything that is here now, it will be here. You don't see anything. If you try to move about, you'll stumble here and there. So, light is necessary just to excite what we call the sight, that sense of seeing. Whoever did care to study this phenomenon, what is light and what is going on? Now, we have light emanating now from the sun filling the room with light. How do we see things? The light just in rays is striking on surfaces, only surfaces. The material light cannot penetrate solid surfaces and is reflected. Man has to study all these things. Reflected in what direction? In front of the surface it's striking. And these rays of light emanating from the sun, very, very, very far away, coming, are traveling and distances keep crossing from the place. They are reflected. How is that? Yes. When I am under a tree, I see everything, branches, fruit and everything, birds flying in the branches of the trees. I can see them. I go far away and going away, I see that thing smaller. Why? Till I go to such a certain distance that I see just only a form, greenish, cannot distinguish anything. Of that tree, I saw so beautiful with fruit, with flowers, maybe with branches and everything and birds flying in that tree. Yet, I am provided with a telescope, strong telescope. Seeing through it, I see the tree as if I am just very near that tree. I can see the branches, the leaves, if there is fruit, fruit in it, and even I can see birds flying in it. Only I cannot hear anything. Now we have seeing and hearing, another self. Oh, I cannot hear anything, yet I can see it. Now, it means that there are certain means which can detach these rays coming from there in such a distance, now again, as they were when I was near the tree, and I can see it with a magnifying glass as if being there. Now, what's distance there? Is distance real? You have to study all that. And this is what happens outside. The behavior of what we call the ethereal light in carrying forms, images, characteristics, and colors. Even the colors. Now, who cares what are the colors in study? What are colors? Yet, it's our whole life, living in a world giving us colors, the light, and impressions. Now, it's what happens outside of our material body. Now, let us study seeing. What does it mean, seeing? What do we see? Do we see the real things outside, since distance is changing our impressions? What do we see? Now, we see that when the light is striking on a surface, it's reflected carrying with it the form and the color, the shape, and everything of it. It's carrying it. How? Why? There are characteristics of light which should be studied. What do they do, these rays of light? They leave just a very, very small just like the head of a pin, the form and the colors and everything of the seeing. The light was reflected upon, coming to us just in front of our eyes, in our eyes, the back of the eye, as simple as that, on both the eyes. Then that light gives an irritation inside the eye. It irritates what you call the optic nerve. Now, until that point, we have the light, the external light. That irritation is passed to certain centers in the brain, but the brain is enclosed in the skull. It's a kind of matter, substance, matter. And that irritation caused by the optic nerve in certain centers in the brain is giving us a sense of seeing and feeling that we are just in the space around us. Are we there? That's how we interpret seeing. Who really did analyze that? So what happens is just interpret this irritation, ethereal vibrations, in which light now? Yes, the image is according to the light. Just having an image in our eyes, but from the optic nerve inwards to the brain, there is no light. Yet, by what kind of light now I see? They say, I see. And again, who sees? So me, who you? You show me your material body. Who are you? Just interpreting. Is that the word? This phenomenon of seeing. So the only thing you do is just interpreting those ethereal vibrations in a certain center of your material brain. Suppose you can repeat it, you can see things. Why not be able to repeat those vibrations and see things? But the things I will see are real. Are the other things real? It's not only vibrations you are interpreting. And can you just create certain things which do not exist and you don't know, at least subconsciously? What's the dream? You find yourself lying on your bed with closed eyes. The medical doctor there will see that the pulse is lower. This person is sleeping. Yet you are not sleeping. Where are you? We said seeing is just interpreting certain ethereal vibrations in a certain center of your material brain. Now you're interpreting also vibrations, again ethereal vibrations, in which center? In the material brain? No. From where you get them? You may sleep in a very beautiful garden, observing, seeing nice flowers, smelling them even. Because these senses are not only in the material plane. They are not of the material plane. It's an extension to the material plane of the senses. You move about in a nice garden, nice landscape near the sea, everywhere, and wake up in the morning. You remember just, oh, that was a dream. So it was not real. I'm telling you that's more real because that's more you than what you are interpreting by what we call sight through the material eyes. Why? Because through the material eyes you cannot observe so many things coming from outside, inside you. But now you can use your powers of observation, thinking, feeling in a much better way. You'll find out when you see, when you develop your self-consciousness in the psychical body, living in what you call the psychical world, that the afterworld is more real than this material world. Because there you can use what I call concentration, observation, in a much better way that you do through the material brains. And we reach now to which conclusion? Who is doing that? Who am I? What I was knowing until this present moment that I am a material body, moving it about, two hands, working with them, do this or that. I'm telling you, human beings living today on the planet are living eighty percent subconsciously. Very few are living consciously. They are living subconsciously and putting all the impressions, again, subconsciously in that part of the personality, again, the psychical body, which you call subconsciousness. And this we call life. But is that really life? So human beings, instead of living a whole period of life in a material body, growing and growing and growing from childhood to adolescence and then to advanced stage, eating, sleeping, making love, doing things, getting certain skills, all subconsciously, believe me, they don't, they're not different from all the other human life around them. And that's not the purpose of life in a human body. It is in developing the sense of selfhood. So I say that eighty percent of the people living around them, they express a self without knowing what is that self they are expressing. You say, how is that? Because they are living instinctively and subconsciously. They are not self-conscious. They express a self. Yes, definitely. The shadow of their real self, as we call it, the present-day personality. But who knows what is this present-day personality? I'll make it more plain. If I ask somebody, what's your body? You know your body. You are possessing. You have a body. You call it yours. You are living in a body. You are moving it about, going, walking. And with your hands, you have the hands, you get the skill of using the hands, doing this or that or that work. What are you doing? How you do it? What's movement? What's motion? What's energy? Where from do you find energy in that material body? Do you know? So you are living subconsciously. And then again, you see certain things around you. It depends upon the person, the personality. They may influence you, these things. You may desire to approach, touch them, and know them. What are these things? Why? What's that feeling that is drawing you to the other things, to go near them, and know what they are? Knowing what they are. Another thing happens inside you. I want it. What does it mean, I want it? Who are you? What's you? What's that? What is that thing? I want it. I want it. What for? To see it, to have it, to possess it, to call it mine. Why? Whoever made an analysis of what happens, to know what his desire. A human being is all day long under the burden of so many so-called desires, which are the operations of his so-called psychical body, without knowing that he has a psychical body. Now, using his psychical body, through the material body, again subconsciously, then a step forward. Subconsciously, a fellow, being under the influence of things around him, which have created those feelings, I call it devilish, and I'll explain why, of possessing and having. Definitely devilish, because he or she tried to deprive them from the others. Why? He should study all these reactions in the personality. Then, subconsciously, one is using the mind. Subconsciously, how can I accomplish this desire? Enslaving the mind, as thought, to the desires. First of all, weakening the mind, strengthening through the mind the desire, becoming the slave of that desire. Now, studying things to know what are elementals, and how he enslaves himself or herself in certain elementals, we call them emotion- thought elementals. Who studies all these things? Just to free himself or herself from illusions, pain, and what follows even after all those impressions and vibrations. What follows? When a desire is fulfilled, when you get that thing, you want that you are something, a car, a house, or something like that, calling it yours. When a desire is fulfilled, it makes you feel tired of it. The new desire arises, not one, maybe two or three or more at a time, torturing us. If they are fulfilled, they make us tired. When they are fulfilled, they lose their value for us, which you have given them, have overvalued them, the time we didn't have them and we wanted them. Something else comes. Who studies all these things happening in the personality? We have to, because all these things are giving a human being pain, agony, anxiety, despair many times. And then we said, when these are fulfilled, you undervalue them now and you have other desires in front of you. If they are fulfilled, if they are not fulfilled, then it is the worst reaction. You see other people around you, why these desires were fulfilled for them and not for me? And then, who was the cause that this desire of mine had not been fulfilled? Another reaction, hating, enmity, jealousy. The others have it, why I don't have it? Who really has started studying all these reactions in the personality? Pain, agony, making life miserable. Why? Who tries to find the reason why life is miserable now? If you put the question, two hundred persons, from a millionaire to the poorest, are you happy? How many do you think will say they are? Maybe none. Why? Because in reality, nothing can make you happy except knowing who you are. The treasure is in knowing who we are, the self- realization. And then, everything outside is rubbish. We will not have it. The material plane. Of course, we can have everything, but the few have them who are called lucky. Most of the people do not have them. Why? Not all people should have this called satisfaction, at least, not happiness. Why? Those who have everything are not happy, because as they are, they cannot estimate what they have. It's good having. Nature is good. Everything is good, all around us. Unless everything was good, the total wisdom of the Almighty would not create it. Everything created is good. Having it? Yes, why not? Christ Joshua the Christ said, Ask and it will be given to you. Look and it will open to you. They are not prohibitions. But he said something else. Search for the kingdom of the heavens, which is in you, and everything will be added to you. And then you are sure that what you have is yours. Otherwise, you have the fear of losing everything. Now you are sure you have everything. Not granted to you by right of having it. You are a god. You find yourself as god. You know who you are now. Now you can enjoy everything and value everything. So, what is wrong in undervaluing things because they make you tired? Because they created in you so much effort while they have been accomplished, you felt you are tired of them. Now this is something wrong. Because in having this attitude towards things given to you, granted to you, because nothing happens unless it is the will of God. When Pontius Pilate told Christ, Don't you know that I have the authority of releasing you or crucifying you? He said, you have no authority on me unless it is given to you from above. And he said, that not even a leaf can drop from a tree unless it is the will of God. So, with what one has it is the will of God. They are granted to him. Daskalos - A Knock and it shall be Opened 2 What a fellow, man or woman, has he or she have it because that's the will of God? Otherwise they wouldn't have it. But then again you say, why? I don't have so much as I want to have. The other has much more than I have. Who taught you that you cannot have more if you want? And you know the way to ask for it. There are no limitations now. You say now, how? How? By using the mind properly. How, I say. The other fellow is very, very lucky. They are not suggesting us luck. Before God, all human beings are equal. And all human beings are granted equally the gifts of God, which is breathing, being able to sing. Everybody can do that. But how do we use these divine gifts? Do we use them properly? Giving material things now. Getting the material things. Do we value them according to their real value? Or we get them enslaving ourselves only in these things without caring more about what are we? Who are we? Where these things have been granted to us? So, I tell you, this material world is very, very beautiful. All material things are very, very nice and beautiful. We are here living and we have the right of enjoying everything. We have that right. And you have given the right to ask. Now, starting the elementals, I'm telling you that whatever a man had ever desired having, he or she will have it. Sooner or later. Depends upon the strength of that desire. But it's when. We must give it time to work. One fellow is born rich in a rich family. The other was born very, very poor somewhere. I had these questions. How do you say, sir, they are not lucky persons? I insist, they are not lucky persons. It is how they make use of the mind as desire. When someone has a desire, and there are laws and causes that this desire will not be fulfilled now, that elemental will never be disenergized before that desire is fulfilled. So an elemental is living a much, much longer period of life than the human being is living in his material body. And all those desires, those elementals, composing his or her personality, accompany the psychical body, because mainly it is from the psychical body, these elementals are coming out, will be there working, even if the man left his material body, living in the psychical world, and then for some time in the neurotic world, and coming back, they are working to create these circumstances for the accomplishment of that desire. So those who are rich and born rich and have everything, it is because they have worked on these things in previous incarnations. They have the right having it, because God is granting plentifully to all. And the others, who do not have them, they have to work now, having them, seeing them, desiring them, but they have the right of using the most precious gift, which is the mind, a sober thought and good thinking. If they start the wrong way, Father will not give them until they come to their senses. Sometimes very rich people are losing that property. Why? To get the next lesson. You have it. You don't make good use of it. For the other sense, you are yourself. You are a slave of it. So, God is withdrawing, depriving you to wake us up, and when one is up, not giving back, but giving much, much more. It is the circumstances. The circumstances are created, and the law of karma, or cause and effect, works accordingly to the elementals we have built up, even in the past. And they work. Somebody will say, why our desires are not fulfilled immediately? Because we don't give them time to work. You have a desire. You create an elemental. You bring it back, thinking of it again. It goes out. You bring it back. You have the intense desire of having these things. You don't give it time to work. When you have another desire, and you forget about it, then you give it time to work. Many people are coming to me and say, Dastale, you know, I had that, and that, and that, and that desire, which had not been fulfilled the time I wanted it. Because the time you wanted it most intensely, you didn't give it time to work. You have left it free. It had worked. Ah, now that things came and I have them. Now what's wrong having it now? You wanted it so strongly. You have it now. What do you want more? Everybody will notice that desires are fulfilled when you forget about them. Forgetting about them, it means giving them time to work. Because, I am repeating, no elemental of any desire can be dis-energized before the purpose for which it has been created has been fulfilled. But, we must see now that our desires of today, we think so important, may not be stumbling stones on our way in another incarnation. So we have to use reason. Now, if desires of elementals created subconsciously can work, consciously created desires can work better, be fulfilled in a shorter period of time. But you must know how the elementals are working, how to free ourselves from the elementals, give them time to work, and after all, know what we are creating. When a desire comes to us, do we really want it to be fulfilled? Or is it just that moment's feeling? And if it is fulfilled, it is a stepping stone in our way. So we have to think reasonably. In this way, we have classified the elementals in two classes. The emotional thought elementals, these are too many, created by everybody, without checking and without reasoning. They will be fulfilled sooner or later. That's the law. And that class of the elementals we call the thought elementals, the thought-forms elementals, having just a wish in it, not an ardent desire, an unbridled desire, which are fulfilled sooner. And this is the elementals which a human being should create consciously now, self-consciously later. That's the meaning of life and living. Life and living. Because these elementals, these two classes of elementals, are composing our present-day personality and the purity. And the nature of our present-day personality is the nature and the purity of these elementals. And by these elementals, we are creating every moment our psychical shell around our psychical body, which is creating either our shell-hell or shell-paradise, in which we are now and we will find ourselves after passing over, leaving the material body. So the purpose of life is knowing the truth, which truth, according to Joshua the Christ, will set us free from illusions and from troubles. So the main thing one should learn and know is the nature of the mind in all its states of existence, supersubstance, substance, ethereal, and cross-matter. And our life in these worlds, not only the material world, the other worlds, the psychical and the nautical, what's the aim behind it? Knowing the world, not suffering in the world. That's a blasphemy against God. But feeling happy, satisfied in these worlds, the material, the psychical and the nautical, until we find out that we are what we are, not the shadow of ourselves, which is in time and place, the personality, which is all the time changing and changing and changing and changing. To find our real self now, the self-realization, I put it in the words of Christ, seek the kingdom of the heavens and everything, everything, will be added to you. He didn't say certain things will be added to you. Certain material things only will be added to you, or psychical, everything will be added to you. But we should find the kingdom of the heavens, which are you. The kingdom of the heavens is in you, not inside you, in your nature as self-consciousness, as God. Now you say, is it wrong to wish, to desire having certain things? Of course, no. You have eyes and you see, and of course there is no wrong. Why? You shouldn't have what you like having. God the Father created everything around us, not only for human beings, for all phenomena of life. So denying yourself is not right. Having, and being satisfied of having, there is nothing wrong in it. What's wrong? Enslaving this self, even the petty time and place self, your personality, in the things which are not permanent. They are changing, they are passing. So there is nothing wrong in desiring and the desires to be under reason and the mind, under your decision. God did not create all these things around us, prohibiting us having them, or enjoying them. He is not just a satisfied Father. See? But you do not have it. No! And what the Heavenly Father had created in the material world is good and holy. And we are allowed having anything we like, but not enslave ourselves under those things. Besides, enslaving yourself in certain things, you can have more. You are enslaving yourself to certain things only. And Christ said, Seek the kingdom of the heavens, and everything. I have some things, and not everything, in all the world. Now, what are these everything, and how one can have everything, I'm afraid I'm not allowed to speak more on it, because you'll not understand. We have to develop in our present-day personality, self, those conditions of purifying it, casting away shadows, illusions, desires, not cleaning the desires. No need to kill desires. Nobody ever managed to kill an elemental, dis-energizing it, yes, or re-energizing it, yes. So we have to study all these things, concerning the mind, the using of the mind, the elementals, control them, instead of being under their influence, the masters of everything. Everything. Now, let us see the life of Christ, and what He has done, people are calling miracles. And why He has done it? Fishermen, His disciples, went just to fish and have some fish to sell, get money for their family. They couldn't do anything. Who created these circumstances of not having anything? By themselves being anti-magnetic, not throwing things towards them, but parsing them. How? Maybe by not believing they could fish that day. So these psychical dispositions are affecting everything around us. Sir, all the night we are trying to fish and have some, and we got nothing. Just go again now, with me. Be with me. You will find this in the New Testament Bible. They went to fishing boats with Peter and with the others. They couldn't just throw up the nets. They got so much fish that nearly the fishing boats were going down. We are looking at Him. How did He gather all that fish? For them. Magic. No. But showing them another example. How? Yes. We can gather living fish and come in the nets and you bring it. Here it is. But I can provide you with cooked and ready fish from the inside out. They are looking at Him. They are preaching Him, teaching Him, giving Him psychical food. But Christ thought that they were hungry and the stomach needed material food. And He thought of providing even that. He said to His disciples, look here. All these people are worried. Tired. Listening to me. No. We can't tell them, go. Hungry. We are looking at Him. What do we have here? Two fish and five little loaves of bread. Tell them to sit down. Sit down. He said, bring them. He blessed them, started working with them. Giving them, giving them, without being exhausted, the two fish and the five little loaves of bread. They were looking at Him. He gave food, fish and bread to 5,000 men except the women and the children in one occasion. And repeating this again for a second time, maybe to stimulate more their faith. He gave the fish and bread to 4,000 again except the women and children in two occasions. I believe He has done it on many, many occasions but they just mentioned only two occasions which means, who are from Kikwot? All that substance from this earth. Yes. He knew how to transform substance into matter. And what is God doing all the time for us? Is not God the Father not doing this to our eyes now without being able to see it? All the food you will eat after a year does not exist now. You come from this earth, from water, from circumstances, from things to grow. What are those things you will eat after a year? As animals, flesh and all these things, do they exist now? No. But is not the same miracle repeated all the time? Yes. What is the creation now? We are gods. We can develop in us this creating ability but we must find the kingdom of the heavens which is in us to be able to do all that. So what is now the wrong in enslaving ourselves in little or more things? You may say much. Yes, from certain point of view. But much means everything. You can have everything. Once a fellow learns how to use the ether around us. Like little fish swimming in an ocean of energy. And yet we say, I feel I don't have enough energy. Just a little fish swimming in an ocean of water saying there is no water. Nothing more stupid. So we have just to know which is this energy, which is the mind. Use the mind. And find who we are being able to use the mind. But to reach to that point, we must know how to construct. I don't want to use for the time being the word create. These elementals we are doing it now subconsciously and most awkwardly. Consciously and let us self-consciously to be able to do that. We must find in us our real nature which is the kingdom of the heavens which is in us. Our father who is in heaven in us. Hallowed be thy name. How? Just by realizing what is that name? God. Thy kingdom come on earth in our material bodies as it is in heaven. In your heavens, everywhere. Who understood? Just this prayer. The only one prayer that Joshua Banner of Christ has given. He didn't give any other prayers. Only one. But we should enter in the meaning of this prayer. So, what is our aim? It is just to understand who we are now as human beings the shadow of the self having in it the parts of life which is our real self. Find out the difference between the shadow, petty, time and place, created self, which is nothing more than your egoism. The sum total of your emotions and thoughts of those elementals. Start now consciously at the beginning creating constructive elementals. Not listening to that state of our, let us call it material earthly self, which is the egoism. But instruct it. Deprive from it its influence and its power over nearly everything concerning our life. Master it until we get the experiences in the material world and teach that little devil called the egoism that your behavior and your works are evil. The parts of life in you is me. You are not me. I am you. And I can purify you and change you and draw you back as the parts of life. Which means we are not going to hate our present day personality. For God's sake. We are going just to transmute it to our real self. Nobody hates his children. He loves them, even if they are naughty. They will grow up. So, our aim is not destroying or dissolving but transmuting, changing to the inner reality. Tomorrow we speak more about the creation of elementals. This subject is never exhausted. But we have just to study the desires, the emotions, how they are created. How we see them in a different light than the light emanating from the sun. From another kind of light. A psychical light who is giving knowledge and understanding. This light emanating from the sun or from any other object is giving you the sense of knowing the existence of certain things. It does not give you this light, understanding. But there is another light. A purer light. The psychical light. The nautical light. And still there is the great light which is the light which is never extinguished. Which is Joshua Manuel Christ's love, the selfhood. I am the light of the world. He didn't say, I am the light of the sun. He said, I am the light of the world. And of course we shall understand these sentences with which Johanna or St. John the Evangelist starts his gospel. In him is life and the life is the light of men. We will analyze even that. Yes. Now we make a meditation. Relax completely. Feel you are in the material body. From the toes to the head. See that you are relaxed completely in the material body. This minute and always in this material body you are now calling it yours. Definitely not yourself. The heart is beating. It started beating at the time of your birth. And it will continue beating until the silver cord joining your other body with the material body will be broken. So the silver cord is in your material heart. And that silver cord is making your heart beat. Try to feel the parts of life in your body. You are living who you are living in that material body. Your personality yet having in it the parts of life which is you. The personality is not you. The sum total of you are elementals. And the egoism is the expression of these elementals, good or bad. It's not you. You are the parts of life. The parts of life is the selfhood. You have to study who you are as a human being now. Living in this material body. And by studying that you will be able just to concentrate your attention and the observation on the other bodies. And you will develop what you call the self-consciousness. Who do you think you are as a man or as a woman? You are preaching. You started preaching the time you were born and will be preaching until you leave the last breath and leave the material body. You are preaching subconsciously. But now you can control breath. You can breathe consciously. And later to be taught to breathe self-consciously. Now you are preaching the vital energy around you. In the air you are preaching. But that's not all. Now start preaching deeply, consciously. Feel the air. Feel your lungs. You are feeling the lungs with this vital energy. Now you are working on the etheric double of your material body. Feel your body with this energy. You have to value this material body of yours. And value the work done using the total wisdom and the divine plant, the holy archangels, the lords of the elements. Because you are brethren in spirit. A great work every moment is accomplished in your material body. Even the nails of your hands, of your toes are growing. Every hair is growing. Feel that you are completely relaxed in your material body. And ask from the lords of the elements and the lord of the selfhood, the human selfhood, Christ, to give perfect health in your material body. He is willing to do so if you don't interfere with the work of the holy archangels. In living and in a disturbed way. Feel completely relaxed in your material body and put this question, who am I really? A man or a woman? Without knowing a reality, who I am, yet I think I know. But I must know so that I will know later what I am as a spirit, ego, self-consciousness. Enough. Now, let us work also on the psychical plane a little. By what you call seeing by the mind. Visualization by visualizing. Later we shall know what it means remembering or bringing from the self-consciousness to the surface of our self-consciousness images, elementals. Bring in front of you the face of a certain fellow, man or a woman, you had certain differences which had created enmity, hatred, certain other feelings, and bring that person in front of you now and see from your heart emanating a sun of rosy light, the rays of rosy light emanating from a sun in your heart. See covering this face of that fellow, man or a woman, with that light of your heart and see that person smiling, satisfied, and tell that person that you love him or love her. Love now has a different meaning to you than real love. You wish nothing evil to come on that person. See that person smiling, satisfied. It doesn't mean that you will just approach again on the material plane. Make the approach mentally enough. Feelings like complaints, hatred, jealousy, enmity are dangerous poisons in your system. They may create cancers, ulcers, and many, many, many other illnesses. So it is for your own sake to banish these feelings from you. Loving your enemies, you are benefiting yourself by casting out dangerous poisons, because all illnesses are caused by these poisons in our system. The meditation my daughter is giving you is on a higher plane, the nautical and the psychical. They are most necessary, but you must start also purifying the material body and the etheric double. They are also, through the etheric double, in higher realms of consciousness. Daskalos - Live an Examined Life II Thus it is in heaven, give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as you forgive those who are transgressing against us and lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever absolute infinite beingness God everlasting life love and mercy manifesting yourself in yourself as the total wisdom and the all-mightiness enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen What is always is the absolute infinite beingness the absolute infinite reality life the everlasting life God of course this word is something some people do not like whether they like it or not it is it is the absolute infinite reality it is the absolute infinite selfhood now what exists now there are two different things being and existing being is everlasting eternal existing it is something that appears and goes so i have two states beingness and existence in beingness is the absolute infinite being the incomprehensible omnipresent omniscient omnipotent reality if we don't like the word God it's just the same now what exists this characteristic one of the main characteristics of this absolute infinite beingness is its will pleasure to manifest itself in itself the manifestation just this will pleasure makes causes the emanation from the absolute infinite beingness of the mind the mind is not God this emanation from the absolute infinite beingness through the mind by means of the mind the will pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness will create now the words of existence many the word of existence is not only the material plane the cross material plane there are other words of existence the psychical planes the noetical the noetic so the absolute infinite beingness in its will pleasure to express itself in itself causes the emanation of what you call the mind now they make a great mistake most people and churches thinking that the mind is the holy spirit no it isn't the mind is the means of expression the holy spirit is the actor behind the mind expressing its total wisdom this is the point so we have in eternity the everlasting life caught one god not many gods one god of course there are other gods but they are expressions of the one god will not give them just that great word splendid work what called the god so have the absolute infinite beingness in it there are billions and billions beyond number beings beingness quality beings now the absolute infinite selfhood now spirit beings expressing a self part of the selfhood so this absolute infinite beingness in its expression as the selfhood is what we will call the locus locus from the greek word logos means expression manifestation we don't have a second now god have an expression of the same absolute infinite beingness but now expressing manifesting the absolute beingness selfhood now we see another aspect of god the selfhood what about the holy spirit the holy spirit is not expressing the selfhood yes in a different way in what i will call consciousness by studying all these things we'll have to separate those two states conscious self and consciousness because by introspection meditation you will find this difference between conscious selfhood and simply consciousness but this needs study now we said in this absolute infinite beingness there are beings beyond numbers we can call them gods but not god the one god they are in it so in the absolute infinite beingness these beings spirit egos are all similar there is no distinction but the time that time was always in certain parts of the universes when the real pleasure of infinite beingness is to manifest itself in itself certain of these beings get their own characteristics they classify themselves into what they call their orders the archangelic orders according to the divine plan and the total wisdom which is in them to start the work in the creation so we have what we call the archangelic orders the michaels not one michael the raphael's the gabriel's the uriel's and other orders how is that who can say who can say these divine things now you have a prism you see the light you know what's the light then you see immediately colors why who can say why how is it that the white color is giving me the seven colors in a prism that has called this the real pleasure of the infinite beingness in expressing itself but why i have these seven colors now nobody can say what we can only say is that we can see them distinctly through their work in getting and a role of themselves calling them michaels gabriel's rafael's uriel's now what is the work of these archangels of these gods of these beings spirit beings to express manifest the real pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness in the creation now are they servants to obey orders or instructions no when the absolute infinite beingness starts vibrating they co-vibrate to this absolute infinite beingness expressing themselves in this vibration that's why i say there is only one god and in that absolute infinite beingness god are these entities let us call them entities beings expressing its will and their will which is not different i'll put another words these beings the archangels are in full attunement to the absolute infinite beingness and attunement with it being one with it so in the god of beingness there is not distinction it is one absolute infinite beingness it's one absolute infinite reality it is god but now in the will pleasure of god to express itself in itself then i see the phenomena the first phenomena the classification of this spirit beings in their orders to create so we have now the words of the creation i said from the moment the absolute infinite beingness which is always it was always since now it all it will always be in it and in the space around us emanates it should pre-exist of course so that it will emanate the mind as the means by which everything will be created so everything which had been created is the mind matter the stones the rocks the crystals everything is mind solid so we have the mind now as we can understand it with our human intelligence in various states of existence depending on the motion or vibrations or frequencies of the vibrations so what makes things solid liquid conscious or something else is the rate of their vibrations the frequencies of their vibrations the vibrations of the mind so now we see another aspect of the infinite being motion movement vibrations are these things characteristics of life definitely can live exist without movement without motion without growing no so the main characteristic of life of god is movement motion in itself how you can say human intelligence is not so strong to comprehend this divine states of beingness now what do we as human beings now have in hand to work with the mind of course studying its qualities you have the mind as matter it is our material world around us the physical world it's matter it is the mind solid and it's our material body of course to study which is again mind solid so the solidity now of the mind again is in various kinds of vibrations the bones the stones the flesh something more just tangible and all that are different they are still solid so we can study now the various degrees of solidity or the various i would call the stages of frequencies of the mind of the vibration these are realities which the orthodox science is studying now and we can study it so we have to live now in the material plane the world of the solids in a material body composed of all that exists in the material plane and composed of what else what is this material world consisting of now by study we reach the work of the archangels the lords of the elements now we study mind from another point of view because i said using the mind the holy archangels in all its aspects they are creating so i can now see the work of these archangels in handling the elements that appear by their own vibrations becoming the lords of those elements the element of the etheric vitality the raphiles the element of fire light and heat the element of the water and the element of the cross matter we can see this for states of the mind as elements i repeat it everything is mind in various states of existence but coming from where from where are these elements are coming there must be and another state from which all of them must thrive we see these archangels and they are separate different work the different work of the one from the other but who is above all the lord of manifestation the lord of the selfhood the absolute infinite beingness we call the locus which is now the element of this locus we can't give it a name yet it is a state to be studied it is the state from which all the elements are coming are born emanate emanate we don't have greek name or any other name in the european languages but the hindus call it akasha now if we now analyze the word akasha which is both sanskrit and old egyptian it means it means the will pleasure of god as truth ka means will pressure sa means the truth so if we go back to analyze this god that means the will of god so even now they don't give us any characteristic with this word even the hindus or the old egyptian philosophy but it is it must be a source it must be a cause from where all these holy archangels pass through and express their own element now creation we see from where all the creation is coming but what can we see by observation close observation that behind everything existing created as a phenomenon of life is what i would call the total wisdom the intelligence the purpose of course this is not a characteristic of the mind but of the one behind the mind expressing itself that's why i say the holy spirit is not the mind but the mind is the mean by which the holy spirit expresses the infinite beingness and selfhood and consciousness because i can see which i can study what i call instinctive consciousness in everything in every phenomenon of life in the vegetable kingdom in the animal kingdom even studying the cross matter in the crystals in the metals you say in the metals what kind of instinctive subconsciousness you can see i can see the sensitivity the iron is getting ill become rusty and other metals have different characteristics another metal passes what i call electricity and others do not do it by observation we see what i call now also the sensitivity is there any other work yes so everything is under laws and in order everything in order but not similar according to the needs and according to the circumstances but i can see it in that instinctive consciousness in the vegetable kingdom i'll see the thorns of the rose bushes why not to be eaten up by the animals i see the thorns all the kinds of captive very different ways according to the circumstances and the place they are growing so it's not difficult by observation just to see this total wisdom of the lords of manifestation and in the human beings yes in our material body i said yesterday how many really do know what is going on in their material body now let's go get a book on anatomy to see how you would know that in the chest there are two lungs and there is the heart and there are the glands and the intestines this and that unless you had a book on anatomy somebody would tell you how you would know it and unless scientists by making operations how they would know it yet all those organs in the material body even of an aboriginal of an illiterate man living in the desert and in the woods is working and functioning properly maybe i would say that the health of those people is much much better than ours all of them have eyes well preserved to see as we have at all organs so who can deny that life of the material body is not the product of the wisdom of higher intelligences which higher intelligences they are conscious of the elements analyzing the body you find the solids find the bones corresponding to the clay to the earth you'll find the liquids you'll find the fire you'll find the ether everything whatever exists in the universes not only the material in the psychical in the neurotic exists in a human being in your human body so by observation and studying and the introspection you reach the relative truth concerning everything you are meditating on by using the mind now we said the mind the mind is the greatest gift given to man to a human being to that personality the self of a human being the mind is the greatest gift given by god what about our real self our spirit soul do we get the mind from any source from the absolute infinite beingness no since we are gods we have the same nature and characteristics of the absolute infinite beingness and the mind emanates when we express as spirit soul beings the real pleasure of expression but now we as human beings living in a material body having our inner nature god being gods we need it from our father because we are much much inferior to our real divine nature they said yesterday we have a double personality and individuality i will not call personality the divine state but individuality selfhood but to reach to this truth we must work very hard in introspection meditation reasoning and i will come to what conclusion who is doing this work that's not this point who is doing this work our self our divine spirit soul ego or our human personality is doing it definitely our present day human personality is doing it what for to know the truth which truth which is in us how is it in us just not this point any human being trying to learn something to know something when he or she knows it he or she feels that he always or she already knew it the disability of knowing it means that it was in us otherwise how we could know things why do animals around us the dogs the lambs cannot know things as we know them because in reality everything is in our divine inner self whose shadow is our present day personality so just this thing shows that we are also divine even as human beings living in our material body and in our other bodies now i say when you start meditation we'll see everything under the light of a reason and you can reach to that by burning whys which request an answer from where from us and from other intelligences now studying the material body our material body we knowing nearly nothing about the material body but we can study and know we see the question yes i see this material body i touch it hands legs everything but there is in them the creation going on growing circulation of the blood the creation of liquids in the body i am breathing and this body of mine is growing in an order in harmony which must have behind it the reason why now the material body is tangible now i can touch it but there must be a mode in which and through which this material body must grow what we find that every molecule every atom everything in the material body every organ must have its mold is that the word mold means the place to get its shape then we see the whole no material body has the more to call it the human body growing growing every hair is growing mathematically why we can see causes laws and effects this is our life why we must find the reasons why now studying the material body i will reach to certain conclusions this material body i'm living in is not myself that they call it mine or my house or as expressing myself in it others are working in it the archangels others are keeping it in good order for me another burning why why do they keep this material body in this form in this shape so that i will live in it then i see it is different the life of the body from my life as a self then i start just understanding how to respect life because there's much much much work to be done so that a human body should be in good order and in good health for our sake to express ourselves in it and live and call it ours now we come to another point i am not the material body i am living in mama in this material body i can call it mine feel it as part of myself but as we said yesterday the material bodies of every man and every woman is the same while the personalities are different no one can find two persons men or women the same this so-called personality is different and that is your real self in the words of existence you are real self in the words of existence but the real self in other domain it's not this it is your highness now we must study now this personality of ours so we get now double existence the one criticizing starting to know and the object which is ourselves again to be known this is the great work we have to do in starting studying our personality there is no other way of what we call psychical or spiritual development human beings around us by thousands are living either instinctively or subconsciously they have never developed in their personality what i would call self-consciousness which is what we need first of all develop the real reasoning consciousness and then find what we are as the real self- consciousness now start studying it what is desire what are emotions of course before starting this kind of study we must study what is our etheric double another very vast field of study the means we will use in living a proper life so but it doesn't matter from where we start they both run parallel what is desire what creates in us the desire of what at the beginning of knowing what it is that of liking it or having it of possessing it are stages which need to be studied but the common people are under these influences without just studying because they are not self-conscious why should i have it what for i must have it what's the value of it to me so working blindly in what i call desire the first thing a man has to study and know is what is desire and to which degree he is influenced by this desire i will help you suppose you have lived of course most of you of us have lived in the past in past times means of communication may be an ass or by feet or just a little cat drawn by an animal of course seeing at that time these means of transport and communication could you dream having anything more than an ass a cow or just a cat to take you somewhere could you dream at that time of having a mercedes or a bmw or a helicopter it didn't exist so you could not just wish or desire having something you didn't know later something more came to our life and more and more and more and you have today so many things how do you have all those things at that time it was just to have a little hut made of wood or we just came out of the cage or build we store a little house now we're not satisfied with it we now want a nice house just like a palace or a nice flat big comfortable flat nobody at that time could dream having all these things but now we want to have them because we know them you have the desire of having it having it living in it only or possessing it to be mine a flat a house why not 10 houses why not just big constructions so now we come just to study what's desire desire was the same always in the past now and it will be in future maybe in future human beings will desire having possessing knowing things that you don't know now which are not existing now so it is not the things the objects that concern us but to study desire what really creates in a human being in a person the desire access of knowing hoarding having possessing maybe one is feeling safe having maybe maybe there are other reasons maybe greediness maybe you have to study all these states of desire i say doesn't matter what the object is to be studied the desire now second step this desire appears in a human being by seeing through these five senses certain things outside of our material body and of our self a jewel something a book a house possessions and we want to call them ours this is mine i want it mine first we study the desire then the effects of the desire are the effects of the desire the same to everybody no knowing things it's for everybody the same through the senses through the special decide so it are different now we must study why i am affected having something that really somebody is not interested in that by observation and meditation we must come to conclusion then what is the influence of this interest on us and on the other people i want to have it and i say yes i will have it sometime how shall i have it that we are using the mind until now we have what i call desire here is what is wrong we enslave the mind to the desire that's what we are all doing every day enslaving the master to the desire which should be the slave and not the master of the mind and enslaving the mind to the desire where is this desire leading us to even to the crime thoughtlessly just i will have it at all cost even killing so the desire has certain effects on human beings we must study these effects and especially in us in our personality and we'll see that the greatest devil torturing the world is desire and especially unbridled desire causing so much disaster what should we do now separate the desire from the thought and now the thought or reason will dominate over those things i call desire why should i do all this work to study and learn the nature of the elementals i am creating this way you are studying the elementals because i said in a lesson something that draws your attention without even thinking much on it something that attracts you you are thinking about it you like it and all these things is creating an elemental and the elemental has a form and that the form we are giving it resembling the thing that creates the desire or it gets a form of its own of its own nature from what this form is getting its power now because this form has energy and power definitely from desire the stronger the desire the greater the force in it and the greater the energy and from where is this energy coming from the mind because we said everything is the mind so we are making the great mistake i say in creating elementals we call them desire thought forms of enslaving this thought to the emotion to the desire while you should do something else sober thinking right thinking checking the desires classifying them to necessities which have to be satisfied and something which is not so necessary having and how to use now the mind as right thought so we classify now the elementals into emotional thought forms and to pure thought forms the seeker of the truth should create or revitalize from the psychical plane these thought forms these thought forms are constructive negative the desire thought forms of course it depends upon their quality i cannot call all of them bad or evil but most of them at least 80 percent are injurious they don't offer anything to the fellow who is creating them or revitalizing them or to the others all around us so we should with open mind see the nature of these elementals because the sum total of these elementals is composing our personality that's why i said that our personality is not our real self it's our shadow so the nature of our personality is the sum total of the elementals good or evil which we have created or revitalized what another name will give to this group of the elementals composing our personality the egoism the egos of the personality so the egos of a person is of the same nature with his personality or her personality now studying who is studying that part of the personality i'm calling egoism or in my personality my inner self now helping my present personality to help it assimilate itself with the self and reject what is time and place illusions now here's the critical point you are trying as a present the personality and then ego self also but in every step you are doing you are called self the egoism which is not our self will present objecting because he has his own life the elementals have their own life not only their existence but their own life independent life from your i-ness will appear immediately because all this time he was masquerading himself being you and you are slumbering in it without just noticing this deception by the time and place egoism was exercised on you that great deception now i'll give an example so that you will understand it you are a judge i had such stories and instances many of course a judge has created a kind of present day self or personality believing to his knowledge to his title to his profession and we see that every human being has an egoism according to what he believes he is in this society education money power so we see that fellow getting out tricky fellows create just troubles and somebody a poor man being offended that maybe that judge expressed something which was not good for him he doesn't like it and he will say to the judge why do you behave in this way saying this and this and this against me because the judge maybe he never said such things tricky persons are playing these tricks the judge feels offended who is that poor fellow coming in my way now just going to my office creating he would insult him you could ask the fellow go away why you come near me and then we see things becoming worse and worse i had these cases now if that judge will start and think that this fellow to behave in this way must have a reason let me search for it come you good man what makes you behave in this way and then everything will be all right no i have never said this thing on the contrary i like you you are a good man and everything was but the voice of the judge revolted who is he just to stand in my way this morning maybe he thinks that he was right to say certain heavy words to this poor man going away i had this case then of course when that judge came to me said you are wrong your honor because he was a member of the circus why who is he to come in my way this morning i said you care okay whether you are a judge or a grocer or anybody else you are you and you have just to use a reason you should say why this fellow came that morning shouting instead of just shouting yourself see him with kindness with a smile and look like you are a good man who really makes you feel like that or behave and put things in order but there is not but it's your egoism when he was looking at me he said i should do that and that but i said cut your egoism now from the here it is presenting itself and it is the right time that will catch him that bad and bad is your egoism coming to give reasons you don't have a reason you should use the mind instead of feeling wounded or offended and attacking because being a member of the circus he understood it was a very precious lesson to catch his sequence who is that you that egoism so you must have in your mind that every one of you has a devil inside you hidden your egoism i can't say that at all times that egoism is evil but it has something evil in it which is the feeling of being offended or humiliated and just having this feeling what might not happen kicking beating killing so the worst devil is the feeling of feeling offended or humiliated in reality nobody can do that to you you are doing it to yourself by listening to what the other say and the ego is deceiving you so the first thing of a seeker of the truth is to be awakened towards circumstances circumstances for everything there must be a reason behind it there is a reason behind it find it correctly think now your egoism will tell you getting up in the morning oh there are so many bad people already or around i'll come just with a serious face and like that tell him no that's not my decision is different i will have always a sweet smile on my lips going out and say good morning to no one and i'll know this hotel is not safe so it is not difficult to find in your personality the devil ego is and detect also by reasoning that that's not me you can find yourself and that's the most precious thing your highness in this way by judging and reasoning you reach the first stages of your so- called self-consciousness you know yourself even as a present-day personality the less we know ourselves as time and place present the personality how we should enter assimilate that self to our inner self and know who we really are so the one who should know who he really is the present-day personality because your inner self knows everything why because according to jesus christ that's the part of your soul the more the mortal which should become immortal and the changing which will come unchanged so this is the work of every seeker of the truth instead of being the slave of circumstances his desires and emotions leaving the mind slave to the desires and being even himself the slave of his personal egoism wake up as a personality control his behavior know now the truth instead of being misguided by illusions so that you reach what i call the self-consciousness of your present-day personality and believe me this is a great great gain you will find out that really now you live in a better way and for you now life is precious it's getting a new value now something more you start respecting that self even as the present-day personality while before you had no respect to your personality so introspection is looking within analyzing your present-day self- consciousness and making corrections you are not losing anything you are gaining much so by trying to annihilate the ego is you gain your ego you assimilate your present-day personality self to your real ego self, spirit self yes i will make a an exercise relax completely feel you are in this body everywhere in your body feel you are in it it's yours now you are feeling you are concentrated now on the aesthetic or feeling giving either of your etheric double the organs of the body of the material body are not an obstacle in your concentration and feeling in your body so feeling being in the whole body of yours you are in your etheric double feel it feel being everywhere from the head the eyes the nose the neck the chest breathing the hands the belly the feet feel completely the whole body it's yours the holy archangels building it and rejoicing you enjoy it your character or your egoism or your present state of your personality is affecting this material body burning the etheric vitality the archangel rafael is giving you depriving the mind ether in building the material body that way illnesses appear in the material body so decide now not to burn this etheric vitality by getting angry by having outbursts of anger by hating by misunderstanding others by complaining all these things are very dangerous poisons in your material body because of all the illnesses you can take them out you now feeling being in this material body in the etheric double of your material body you must love it keep it in good health by not allowing poisons in that body poisons coming from the elementals stored in this material body as your subconsciousness of anger hatred and all negative feelings put this question to yourself who am i am i hatred hating people why all people around us are just like ourselves present-day personalities with our virtues and our vices also we are not better than anybody else around us and we are not worse than anybody around us therefore why should we hate them we make the same mistakes and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us we have reasons to love all other human beings around us even if some people call them evil or bad they are human beings moving in the illusion and in the darkness of ignorance but are we moving in the light of knowledge if so let us show that light to them also everybody even the worst thief criminal expresses a self and I-ness and the more he is in evil the more unhappy he is and he or she are in need of our help not our hatred we must love them all and help them the world around us is not in need of our anger and our hatreds and our criticism they are more in need of our sympathy and love who am i now feeling i am in this material body i call it mine i what am i forget your present name and sex just concentrate on your i-ness and wait for enlightenment the holy archangels are following what you are doing now and especially your guardian angel who is willing to help you set yourself looking behind in time there is a whole eternity a cold past even before before the earth became solid to be inhabited joshua manuel christ said before the earth get a shape and before mountains existed i am in the eternal now and put yourself now this question i am now this moment that means i was always what did i find myself now this moment in this material body of mine if i was not always life and in future likewise i will be and i will exist i will be a god a spirit soul self and i will exist as a human being to get lessons now put yourself again this question in what i call time a whole eternity behind me i know this present moment that i am and i am existing both and there will be an eternity in front of me i call the future here it is the eternal present the eternal now i am and i exist they want to know these both states state of beingness my divine nature and my existence as a human being enough Daskalos - Living the good Life 1 - Mar-8-1993 Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our hearts to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We said in previous lessons that what is, always, at all times, is the absolute, infinite beingness. The absolute, infinite reality. According to the Church, God the Father. But what is God the Father? What is this absolute, infinite beingness? No one can comprehend. The human intelligence cannot reach as far as that. God we can only know about this absolute, infinite beingness is that it is in its self-sufficiency. Need of nothing. It is everything. Something that is absolute, infinite beingness is something abstract. No. Everything is in it. The absolute, infinite, total wisdom is in it. And the absolute, infinite selfhood. The reality. Nothing can exist. Nothing can ever exist at all that would exist, which is not in it. As its own self. So the only thing we can understand is that this absolute, infinite beingness God the Father is. Always. The everlasting life. The incomprehensible life. Nobody can know what is that everlasting life. God we understand is life to our own measures. As living human beings. So, in the absolute, infinite beingness is also the will pleasure of manifesting itself in itself which proves that the absolute, infinite wisdom is in it. Otherwise how could it express itself? Where? In itself. Because this absolute, infinite beingness is the omnipresence of the reality of God. So, expressing itself, this absolute, infinite beingness we see it as the absolute, now infinite beingness. In its multiplicity, incomprehensible, now we see through this absolute, infinite beingness immortal beings expressing themselves. So we can understand that in this absolute, infinite beingness is the multiplicity. Multiplicity doesn't mean multiplying. But being in great numbers. So, we said in a lesson that this will pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness manifests the locus itself as the absolute, infinite beingness now. Through that prism of the will pleasure now these beings now are manifesting themselves and they are the archangelic orders. The creators. Now, in this absolute, infinite beingness now we can trace something there which we cannot do in the absolute, infinite beingness. This absolute, infinite beingness now we can trace the quality of these divine, immortal beings. Now, the Jews are calling that state of beingness Elohim. God in plurality. Or El Shaddai, which means the Locus. Now, we can now distinct what they are, these beings. According to their manifestation. And we know that the will pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness manifested now in the absolute, infinite beingness will pleasure of manifestation causes the emanation from all those beings of the absolute, infinite beingness of the mind. We are using this word very often, the mind. But who enters really in the meaning of what is the mind? Now, this mind we can trace it as super-substance. Formless. Yet in this absolute super-substance are the causes, the laws of the manifestation. They are what we might say the total wisdom of the Locus now. Of the absolute, infinite beingness manifested as the absolute, infinite beingness. Now, we don't have a second God. We don't have three Gods. Don't classify them according to their manifestation as the absolute, infinite beingness as the Locus and as the Holy Spirit. There is one God, the Godly Father in its multiplicity. Now, we see the mind. We can trace the mind as human beings as far as the absolute super-substance in which I said we can study the laws the principles, the ideas the causes of everything which exists. Now, we see the mind in lower rates of vibrations. I will call that word the noetic word from the word mus which means the mind. Now I see what I call noetical word. The difference lower rate of vibrations. Now, in this word I see manifested the forms. And these forms are the results of the causes. Of course, those who can ascend to those heights of intellect to pierce from the word of forms to the word of the lowest causes and orders they see that they are as causes of the forms. Entering there he can trace the forms. But now the forms are expressed in the noetical word. We cannot just reveal because there are not words to reveal. One should reach those states. Just to understand the difference and the similarity between the word of the causes laws principles and the manifestation of them now into let us call them concrete thoughts. The word is not the problem. But manifested thoughts as now forms. Thoughts and forms. What is the relation between a thought and a form? No form can exist unless there is in it the mind even as thought as the conception of the locus. So I see now thought as the word. The expression. Now these things need much, much introspection and study in using the mind properly. I don't call it meditation. Meditation is very, very, very low. Meditation is just what a human being can use his material brains in shaping forms. It is very poor. Meditation. Yes. It is so much important to meditation. But this is not what a seeker of the truth is really seeking. Just to go beyond the means itself becomes the knowledge. Knowing directly and not through what we call the mind in its lower vibrations as thoughts. Now this way you can trace the qualities of what we call the mind as a super substance. The noetic world. Splendid. Full of light which cannot be described. What we call light is just those lower vibrations of this earth which only our human eyes can just understand. It is not in reality light. It is a sensation. The real light is far, far, far beyond the comprehension of certain rates of vibrations. So, there is what I call the unextinguishable light. The absolute light. It is like God. In many religions, even in the Christian religions, we just make the comparison calling God the light. And even for Christ the Lord was a light from the light. No! It is a mistake. The manifestation of the absolute infinite beingness and beingness is the light. The light is the result. It is not the light God. But the manifestation of God is God's life. Now light and life are just similar things. Because life makes you understand as the divine light of comprehension. Even so. Who can say God is life? The absolute infinite beingness is life. But life can be seen in two aspects now. The cause and the manifestation. I am afraid we are just in very deep waters. It needs much, much introspection beyond meditation, even beyond ecstasy. Just to understand that. Reaching the levels of attunement. Not attunement. Even attunement is low. In the world of the oneness. Now. Let us come now to the mind. We see the mind. What is the mind? A super substance. What is the noetic world? Everywhere. Everywhere in the omnipresence of the absolute infinite beingness is the noetic world. The world of splendor. Of the absolute light. But now. Is the noetic world everywhere? The world where the forms are manifested? No. It is not everywhere. Now we understand what is space. There is not any sense of space in the noetic world. But in the noetic world we get the sense of space. Because it is absolute infinite beingness now. It is defined as space in which we shall see manifested the forms. We shall see the great intelligences the archangels working. So the noetical world is in what you call space. And place. But not the noetic world. There is much difference between the noetic world and the noetical world. The noetic world is one. Absolute everywhere. While in the noetical world there are many, too many. Every material thing. Every material thing from the atom to the galaxy has its noetical thing there. Where is now the noetic? We search everywhere. But now we have the noetical noetical. So we call the archangels using the total wisdom of God the Father of the absolute infinite beingness now using it through the locus. I will use the words that Joshua Emanuel was using. The ancient that means the manifestation now enters in the world of existence. It's something else. The world of existence is the noetic world not in the world of existence. No! The world noetic is in the world of beingness and beingness. Absolute law. Cause. Principles. Ideas. Now we enter in the world of separateness. Or in the world of existence. So we find the noetical words now. Not one. Many. Cause we said every heavenly body as we understand it material. Planet. Solar system. Galaxy is in the world of existence. And it has apart from its cross material side the emotional and the noetical. So we enter now in the world of existence. Now the Holy Archangels, I said, using this super substance of the mind emanating from themselves and from the absolute infinite beingness and beingness they are using now the total wisdom to create. To create worlds. The worlds. The heavens. The worlds in existence. From where? Definitely from themselves. They are gods. The Holy Archangels are gods. It is in the multiplicity of the absolute infinite beingness. All my fingers are my hand. One hand. Five fingers. Yet one hand. So we see the multiplicity now. And we can trace, we said, two aspects now. The total wisdom and the almightyness. Total wisdom. Everything is so wisely created. The almightyness. Their almightyness. The absolute infinite being almightyness. Nothing is beyond their control. This can be traced even on the cross-material world. Nothing can escape from the perfect control of the creators. Not even the human being, which is the highest on the material plane. Expression in cross-matter of their splendor. So, studying the orthodoxy. I tell everybody to study all the phenomena of life. Each phenomenon of life has definitely a form. So the characteristic of every phenomenon of life is first of all life in it and a form. This is making the world of existence. We see that every phenomenon of life. Studying it. It's most wisely created. Under certain laws, we can understand the laws. By studying this phenomenon of life, we can see harmony, order, beauty. In everything. In the shape. In the form of it. But apart from that, we can see their form. And we can study what we call the almightyness. We said nothing can escape their control. How do we understand this phenomenon of controlling everything? By studying what we said in the previous lesson, the circles of possibilities of each phenomenon of life. Each phenomenon of life is describing a certain Protestant circle of possibilities which cannot go beyond that. It must just complete its circle of possibilities of its own kind. From the world to the galaxy. What do we observe now? Which is not a reality in reality, but it is a phenomenon of it. We understand that it gives us the sense of time. Did you ever think what's time? Does time exist as past, present and future? It does in the words of manifestation. But the words of the manifestation are not the words of reality. What's then time? Can we understand time unless we just know what is space? And again, what's space? What is time in space? It's in every word of manifestation, time and space coinciding. I'm speaking of my own experiences. I say no. And studying this you come to the conclusion that space may be considered as something existing. Because it is the scene in which everything takes place. But time, time is something we conceive and we cannot conceive. Is that the word? Time, unless we have a phenomenon, an expression, which means time as past, present and future is not a reality. How do we know it's not a reality? Because going beyond the words of the material plane, the psychical plane and the neurotic plane, we see that the sense of time is changing. And even the sense of place and space. It's very, very difficult even to the archangels to comprehend this nature of the absolute infinite beingness, the locus and the way it manifests itself. Even the archangels, even to the archangels it is unknown this divine work of manifestation. Now let us see time. Past, present and future. I said it is not a reality. What is the reality? It is the eternal present, not past, present and future. That means opening to comprehend the divine nature of both existence and beingness. In the words of beingness there is no sense of time. In the words of existence, we find time giving different impressions. So, it's different, the sense of time of the material world and different in the so-called psychical world and different still in the nautical world. So, studying these things you can understand that what is the reality is the eternal present, the eternal now and everything else taking place in the material world all the material world in the psychical world in the nautical world these are words of change then you can just make the comparison because it needs a very, very serious seeker of the truth who can develop his self- consciousness self-consciousness in all those words to be able to study study study what? the laws governing everything everywhere is order in the material world in the psychical world in the nautical world order harmony balance this truth and the existence of God and God being there only blind in the mind cannot see all that fortunately we have scientists now calling themselves scientists saying that God is dead, they don't believe to the existence of a God but if they just be more serious to observe more things, study things deeply they can find and God existing and God being in body states now what do we have in our means to know the truth and what is the truth what did Joshua Manuel say about the truth calling himself the truth but he said I am their way what does it mean the way the course of things the way and truth and life these two are together truth and life it's written in the churches they say that who really understands what is behind just these three words I am the way the truth and life you know why now Christianity in all its dogmas fragments is suffering from from ignorance and blindness because they never care to enter in the real meanings of the teaching of the God man so what is necessary today for a seeker of the truth belonging to this system man or a woman to do apart from being in the way that means living his own life as a human being to approach the truth and know what is life if I put you the question do you know what is life you are living definitely you are living each one is living as a human living as a human being and each one of us is living his own way of life but if I ask you what is life in reality not your own life the way you are living now who can say few can say but not all people all people cannot say they are living subconsciously each one his way of living in confusion in ignorance which is because of the misery now prevailing in all the world now the seeker of the truth by observation and using the mind in the right way with sincerity to itself he can understand studying the way human beings are living and not studying himself as a human being definitely he should start from himself each one must start from himself or herself then see what is common cause for everybody living as a human being creating this confusion and this dissatisfaction in life we have not been created as human beings by the lord the archangels of the elements of the creation to live unhappy that is a blasphemy against god and the creators and you are living and you are unhappy it is our own fault human beings have been created to live a happy life now we can study the circumstances the circumstances are created by us study what is behind these circumstances which really create an unhappy human being and we will find the cause what is the cause? did people find the cause? great ones they did find it and everybody can find it it is duty of everybody to find just the cause of this confusion and this misery in the world some will say, oh yes, it is the devil the demons, the evil one and all that but what is the devil and the demons and the evil one? it is not just to say things without meaning do such beings as demons devils existing? I tell you yes, they do exist they do exist as human beings are existing and animals are existing it is not only the human being which has been misled making bad use of the phenomenon of life and of the divine grace there are other beings also we call them demons but I am telling you the demons are less stupid than human beings they can deceive man and no man can deceive a demon have that in your mind now what is the cause these demons are suffering because I am telling you, they are suffering and because the human beings are suffering God the father the absolute infinite beingness and beingness had given certain gifts to the creation creation because a human being is a created being which are these great gifts for a human being the cross material body his body well built up and under the care continuously of the holy archangels not only to build but even to work in it only blind in the mind cannot see that a great gift given to a human being a human body to live in we are not a human body we are living in the human body the second gift given is the heart and the third gift great gift is the mind not the human brain these three gifts given to human beings by the creators and by the locus of God who are why these three gifts have been given by the archetype or the locus and the holy archangels to a human being because in reality a human being as a spirit, soul ego being is God everlasting immortal God by making good use of the mind he can trace his way back to his divine divine self so a human being has been given the three great gifts by the creators and by the locus and the holy spirit a human body a seeker of the truth in orthodox science has to study and see in everybody his own body and the body of other people this beauty this harmony by studying what he can trace by observation and using the mind now in his research that this very moment certain unknown to him intelligences, I am speaking about common people are working in his own material body working to keep and insist to keep that body in perfect health which means God wants every human being to be happy you have a wound you take care that it will not be contaminated it will be closed down you have a broken bone it will join you are not doing it but you can see it you can observe it in your own body you can see it in the bodies of all other human beings so it is better just to observe all that and try to think over it meditate I said the word meditation for me is very low I need higher and higher realms using the mind in a better way not in what is commonly called meditation maybe contemplation I don't know if we have better words for it so now studying the material body by observation we reach a conclusion which wise ones all through the centuries had reached to that conclusion that this material body as a whole as parts and organs composed by atoms certain organs is under the wise supervision of these intelligences keeping each organ in the material body functioning and doing its own work most complicated work in the human body just to keep a human body in good health for a person to live in it which is independent from the life of the material body now this is a branch of study for the seeker of the truth and you have now more serious work to do who am I living in a material body in a body I call it my body and making the mistake to think that I am that body how can I come out of this illusion this confusion that I am not really the body you have a different way of studying in between we have to study how this material body is kept in good order is built up by the holy archangels that means be aware of what we call our etheric double another branch of study very serious then we start now to understand that we are not the material body because as I said in a lesson the material bodies of all men is just the same in shape, in form just a bit taller, shorter it doesn't matter but in the whole complexion all the male bodies and the female bodies are the same functioning the same way this is the general thing you come to know but then you come to the conclusion that you are not the material body neither two persons living in a material body are the same so we have just to see that so called time and place self and put a question, who am I? as just a person what are my characteristics? I behave in this way why do I behave in this way? and I find in myself now, I am using the word self now even the little petty time and place self I have in it a kind of struggle between essentially the idea of what is good and what is not good of course, if things are going right you don't observe this struggle but if you overdo it then you have this struggle so we study that in our self what you call stinks of conscience and seeing what it is in the other people sometimes this stinks of conscience leads a person to commit suicide so many things so, the greatest science that should occupy the mind of a seeker of the truth is to study the individual life of people around him and of himself and come to his conclusions how can he do that? start making good use of the divine gift called the mind start to understand that he is privileged phenomenon of life to use the mind at will which the animals all around him are not entitled to do are these people living now, today not the countries of the world called them civilized, non-civilized or everything like that I find all the countries are non-civilized and stupid because whether one is calling himself a scientist and he is living in America or in England or anywhere else and an up origin is the same they are under the same pressure of their desires and their petty little devilish personality studying them will come to conclusions what is really making them separate entities from all the others we said the way they are living is there not a common thing to observe using it in various degrees and just making this petty little self you are different from the other of course it is and by observation and using the mind properly we find that in that present day petty little self we call our personality are certain impulses we might call them which we call desires emotions reading where? you have to study the nature of desire the old greeks and the old egyptians were making in their semiles the story of the many headed snake and serpent of hydra and you must study the nature of desire generally and what we find out that this kind of behavior Daskalos - Living the good Life 2 - Mar-8-1993 We find that this kind of behavior, the desire, while it is general, everybody is under just the impulses of desire, it becomes too personal. In which way it becomes personal? Because immediately you feel a desire. Of course, we will deal tomorrow on the problem of the elementals composing the personality, and how these elementals are influencing the human being. You find that these desires start to everybody in the same way, creating circumstances, or people are living in certain circumstances already, and these desires have different force in each one of us. And these desires are just making our personality find ways how to satisfy these desires. Then immediately we are making the great mistake, enslaving the mind as thoughts now, pre-calculated thoughts to serve the desires. That means creating an elemental, and this elemental now is getting hold of us, becoming our master. It wants, first of all, prolongation of its life, and that mastery over its creator. Because there is another point of study of the seeker of the truth, to study the nature of elementals, what they are, how they behave, how he is subconsciously energizing them, and how he should consciously learn how to dis-energize them. And then super-consciously, self-consciously, to control them and use them. So we find a desire now. This desire, where shall we find it? Study it. We find that in the way we are living, each one of us had made part of the so-called subconscious nature our own. So another branch of study. So study what is subconsciousness as the storehouse of energy, the workshop of the holy archangels to work through the etheric double to build up the material body and keep it in good health. And that part of the subconsciousness, which is under the control of the sum total of these elementals, we call egoism. Of the personality, which is very different from one person to the other. We call it a very bad-smelling, muddy poo. How bad-smelling it is, it depends upon the person. So we have to study the nature of desire. Separately, and each desire separately, in its birth, which is created. Now studying all these desires, the secrets of it, what did they find out? That according to the circumstances and to the density of these desires, is that the word? Density? Of these desires, it is their effect. So according to circumstances, they can be fulfilled immediately. Or it would be impossible to be fulfilled at that time immediately. But I am telling you, all these desires are fulfilled sooner or later. No elemental created by any desire is dis-energized unless we do it willingly. Or by itself, unless it's fulfilled. Never mind that it may be fulfilled after three or four incarnations. Because human beings are leaving their bodies and their bodies are dying, decaying, and he's putting new bodies, and yet these elementals are composing its sub-consciousness. So this sub- consciousness, call it yourself hell if you like, exists even after you are leaving the material body, accompanying you in the psychical and in the numerical world. It's a very serious branch of study for the seeker of the truth. But now let us come down and see the desire on the cross-material plane, in our sub-consciousness. We see the desire either fulfilled quickly or not fulfilled. What does it create if it is not fulfilled? And you see other people just succeeding according to their circumstances. Their way, they are just doing it. Immediately, you start feeling jealous. A devil comes to you immediately. Why? Why not to me? Why to them? Then you start finding fault to the people around you who were the obstacle of the fulfillment of this desire. Then it comes the uncontrolled way of using the mind. Slaves now of desires. Now, are desires and emotions the same thing? There is a relation between emotions and desires, though the emotions can be classified in another way. There is another branch of egoism in emotions than in desires on their lower levels. What do we see? Then it is formed that bad-smelling, muddy pool. You start hating, feeling jealous. You want just to take revenge. Why did they stand in my way? These people, why did they do that or that? Then, the human beings without using rightly thought, they are leaving themselves slaves of these desires which now become emotions. Then they act from a higher level of the personality, the real personality. Leading where? Fighting, struggle, enmity, divorces in a family, quarrels in a family, breaking dishes and furniture, making weapons and wars, killing each other. So, in its serious study, the nature of a desire, how it works, the nature of the various emotions, their effect and what they leave behind if desires and emotions are not fulfilled. And I'm telling you, first of all, the one who is good at is the fellow who keeps them. I'm telling you, hatred and all these, let us call them negative emotions, are poisons, very dangerous to your material bodies. Is that a self-punishment? Not predestined, we are creating it. Now, I'm putting the question, why do you think the God-man, so I call him because he was the God-man, Joshua Manuel the Christ, what you call Jesus, had been human and then came into the world just to show human beings that they should not live like animals and like wild beasts but become human, angels and gods to enter in their own divine state. That's why he came. He gave certain examples which of course according to their time and even today are considered stupid. After all, I heard an argument talking to me saying, but don't you think that Joshua Christ sometimes was saying stupid things? I said, really? Which stupid thing did Joshua Christ say? He said, if one comes and strikes with one cheek of a human, the other cheek. Is that not stupid? I said, no, it was not stupid at that time, it is not stupid even now. He gave at that time Joshua Manuel the Christ examples because the Israelites, especially the Israelites not the Essenes at that time the small people who understood what he was saying protested and being under the law of Moses tooth for a tooth, an ear for an ear, an eye for an eye, they revolted. What do you mean? If one comes slapping with one cheek of a human, the other, that's stupid. And he explained at that time Joshua suppose somebody is coming to you that's slapping you. Instead of quarrelling keep calm instead of getting angry be still look at him inquisitively not with words because he will revolt he will become worse just sitting with his eyes why are you doing that? That time Joshua said he is coming attacking you shouting and explaining why it is the nature of things if you find out that there is something wrong explain yourself you have done something wrong said something wrong it's not humiliating to apologize and ask him to forgive you and just give your hand and gain a friend that's quite wise that's a good thing a fellow comes at that time especially the Israelites were carrying with them a dagger or a knife or something like something else for protection that was a stupid exclusion he has proved that that's not a protection so he says a fellow comes slapping you continues slapping you look at him with love these are their illusions how long he will do it? till he comes down then explain to him if you don't do that he is slapping you you give him a kick he continues slapping you you slap him use your fist then your feet hot will come he will draw the dagger and you will do the same and what will be the result? painful wounds? prison? the grave? and they held four criminals is that preferable? so he was justified it was not stupid to say if one slaps you in the cheek offer him the other just to give way to the anger it was very very wise now his coming in this world it was to teach people that all human beings as spirit, soul, egos are gods and a fellow cannot hate a god because he is under the illusions of the flesh and of the secrets nobody can hate another man without insulting god that's why he said love your enemies pray for those cursing you send good thoughts because they are the ones who are in need more of your love and your prayers than those who are around you but who understood him? who did understand him really at that time? so what is our duty as seekers of the truth? I insist to what I said hundred times until now the best friend of every seeker of the truth Christian especially is to have the bible the new testament and try to understand what is in there of course they have taken much out of it worth of reading but there is much of it still there to study what? what is the right behavior of a human being to god and to other human beings this is just the way of the good life because I say many times I had many many talks with many people all over they were coming to me or going to them with degrees doctorates religious people self appointed religious people and all that I'm telling you their problems are all the same all of them are slaves of a demon called personal egoism and the more educated they believe that they are different from the other people they are just slaves of their own stupid idea that they are superior than the others of course a laborer or somebody all around you if he is doing something wrong it's not difficult for him to go and ask from that fellow to forgive him to excuse him but suppose a doctor of medicine to a laborer is he willing to go and apologize and say I'm sorry I am wrong no I had in the past a case in Cyprus a fellow who was just a member of our circle he was a judge his owner of course sometimes he became a laborer poor laborer in his place that was just a fellow a cunning fellow he said certain things of course that poor laborer who was toiling all the time with four children to feed them was wounded why the judge said these words against him of course the judge didn't say these words it was just a trick a fellow who had been sent away by the judge one morning going out the fellow told the judge well your honor do you think because you are a judge you have to say this and this against me and against my family and all that because the judge got angry so many things there was just a kind of quarrel and bitterness of course I heard it when the judge came to me in the lesson told him I want to talk to you he said you are honor I said do you use that for me yes you are honor he said what do you mean you are honor you have to go and apologize to that laborer you said very hard words against him he is a fellow with four children toiling all day long and he needs more respect at least from you go and apologize before I explain to him yes because you are a judge you mean it's humiliating to go and correct things he looked at me and said no and he went away after when he came to census he bought two bottles of cognac in the evening because he learned that that fellow was taking with his family something after coming from the work some cake and something for the children and just he went to the house to the little house in front of the laborer entering he said look here really this morning we didn't behave well myself to you and you to me stopping me in the middle of the road but I want to understand what was the cause because the fellow explained I never said things that you will say that I am like that he just said yes that's a trick I know now he got the children on his knees giving them chocolates to the judge then the fellow started crying he told him why are you crying he said you are on earth forgive me I didn't say any hard words but forgive me even for just being excited in the evening the judge came to my house he said I went to your niece he said very good morning he started laughing all dialogue between you he said yes I know that you were there because I was feeling you there he said what was wrong in just making a friend no that fellow is just a kind of slave to you indebted to you for what you have done unless if somebody would say something against you in his presence he said is that not better to have a friend seem humiliating in reality they are not they are not humiliating you words of kindness and of love the time you have just to correct something wrong so a seeker of the truth should have that in his mind to dominate over his personal egos which is a demon presenting itself very often even as an angel of light you have just to have much observation and right thinking to take the mask from that devil of the angel of light what do I mean to say we have our divine nature as spirit, soul, egos of observation we have the power of using the mind in the right way in right thinking we should do that instead of being slaves of circumstances and of just unfortunate events in life what is the gain you are master of life you are master of yourself and you are master of the circumstances that's a great thing then the seeker of the truth apart from that just annihilating his demon the egos should free study all things around him study the nature of desire generally and study separately each expression of a desire not only in him but in everybody all around him start to study by observation and right thinking the condition of the family how your family is living there are divorces quarrels fighting hatred in a family children crying having what you call psychic aloons misery you can find all that in the house of a scientist in the house of a so called nobleman in the house of a laborer all the same you will find it all of them are slaves of a so called personal egoism they are not using rightly the mind and they are slaves of circumstances and of their emotions study around you in your community the family life of people your own relatives and the others in the community divorces quarrels and if you question all of them they will all say that they are right and the other side is wrong another fault of the human beings everybody is wrong except ourselves that means not sincerity with your own self where I am aiming at when a fellow is calling himself a seeker of the truth and belongs to a circle in Europe everywhere Cyprus really I am not rejoicing of having just a very big number of members calling themselves seekers of the truth because when a seeker of the truth has the right to call himself a seeker of the truth a man or a woman should be a seeker of the truth should live just the kind way of life he should live being a seeker of the truth so I give more attention in the way of life just this teaching making it part of their life instead of calling yes we are seekers of the truth we belong to a circle here and there continue living their own way of life where you were living before being unhappy without having any change in their life so we should give much more importance to the lessons to the guidance given for everybody to believe that he or she is a seeker of the truth how should we understand that they are on the right way by the change in their life instead of quarreling slapping shouting they are saying words of love to their people they just make a very nice home life I believe that we have succeeded to a great degree to that in some people but I want to see that more so I'm telling you now what's life we are living that's a great gift of God to make us live as human beings offer to us a material body a heart to love and the mind to use it he claims that we should use it make a good use of it so realizing what is a human being and a seeker of the truth one should become happy in life now we'll make an exercise relax completely relax the whole material body from the toes to the head feel your body completely relaxed relax your psychical body silence down completely all emotions and feelings just simply feel you are living I'll give you an exercise Joshua, Emmanuel the Christ was giving to his unseen disciples feel you are living in your material body and in your mind hear the word of the Logos I have given you a material body to live in no doubt about it you are in it now you can realize you have that material body who gave it to you hear him saying that I have given you a cross material body to live in it I have given you a heart hear me I am in the parts of your heart I am in you I am you as a spirit soul ego but I am in you as a person man or woman hear me in the parts of your heart I am there breathe deeply feel my vitality in your lungs I have given you the lungs you can feel me there I am life I am giving life in your body you can feel me there I love you I am the Lord you are God in you and in every other human being you are in my omnipresence all are in my omnipresence all are in me and I am in every one of you and in everything feel me hear me I am around you I am in you I am the Lord you are God hear me in the noise your breath is doing while breathing inhaling my vitality hear me in your red hot blood running in your body I am there I am life feel me and hear me in the breeze caressing your face feel me in the heat making warm your body and living see me everywhere in the tempest see me and hear me in the waves see me caressing the trees as the wind I am everywhere I am love I am life love and light see me in the light the light you can see with your eyes I am in it is Joshua Emmanuel the Christ now the Locust feeling us knowing us of course he said where are there are two or three in my name I am amongst them he is here everywhere now use just your divine power of visualizing using the mind in bringing forward from the past certain events the introspection is a serious way of meditation see yourself with somebody you have differences and you are familiar or not it doesn't matter or even two people two persons three persons don't try to understand who is wrong and who is right this doesn't mean anything what means is just an event which was very disagreeable to you and to the others don't think it was agreeable to others you have the power to bring in your mind now these persons bring them see them see them smiling I have given you a heart to love see your heart a sun radiating the light of love see that light in the face of those fellows whether you are wrong or you are right it doesn't matter love them see them happy in the light of your heart see your heart a sun giving light to those people and really love them forget what they said forget what you said forget the differences these are just like leaves of autumn carried by the wind they mean nothing what means is that you are living they are living and both of you are offsprings of the same father of God they are Gods and you are Gods see them smiling to you kindly tell them with your mind you can talk with your mind much better than you can use your tongue and your mouth talk with your mind tell them that you love them it is the language the Archangels and God hear and understand enough and who do you think is benefited more? they or you? of course you but what you have done is the best remedy to annihilate the force of the poison of hatred and complain which is in our personality what you have done is more for your sake than for the sake of the others but it is for their sake also and me in it tomorrow we will give the lesson more with more details on the elementals Daskalos - Living the Gospel of Christ 1 As it is in heaven, give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We repeat that what is always is the absolute, infinite beingness, God. This absolute, infinite beingness is the eternal life. So it's life. God, the absolute beingness, is life. But what is life? This is something we must try to understand. But can we understand what is life only by studying the phenomena of life? We can see the phenomena of life all around us on the material plane. We are a phenomenon of life as human beings. Yes. We can just understand to some extent what is life. Now, using just a handful of matter of Earth, which is our material brains, which are not, of course, the best means to understand the reality. So, life is the reality and the truth. Because unless that reality was not, nothing would exist in it. So, we can try to trace and understand what is the world of existence, so that we'll understand what is the infinity. So, we repeat again, what is, always was, and always will be, is the absolute, infinite beingness, life. Now, what are these characteristics of this absolute, infinite beingness? As far as the human intelligence can see and trace. But this absolute, infinite beingness has in it its multiplicity. You can see in the absolute, infinite beingness, beings. Beyond number. And these beings are just not inferior, similar to this absolute, infinite beingness. In all the qualities of the absolute, infinite beingness. And now, in groups, these beings, in the absolute, infinite beingness, are expressing other qualities of the absolute beingness, which is the total wisdom. And each of these groups, these are the archangelic orders, are expressing this absolute, infinite beingness, total wisdom, in their own way. And expressing it, they prove us the almightiness of the absolute beingness, and their almightiness. Nothing is beyond their control. These things can be known by a human being, using what I call his mind. Again, the mind is not that handful of matter in our skull we call the brains. You'll find it out, after you are able to make your first self-conscious exosomatosis. Find out that you don't need to use the material brains. Again, I say that handful of matter in the skull. That helps, of course, as a means of moving our material body. But it's not the only means we can use, nor the mind. What's the mind? We said in a lesson that in the absolute, infinite beingness is also, apart from the self-sufficiency, also the will-pleasure of expressing itself in itself through these beings, the archangelic orders. That will-pleasure causes the emanation from the absolute, infinite beingness, and from these beings, the mind, the means. So we said many times that the mind is not God. It is the manifestation of God. It's holy. It's the words of existence. All the words of the various dimensions we can human brains detect are made of mind. So I have what is beingness and expression, the will-pleasure, which is the mind. So everything is built up by the mind as formless super-substance, substance, ether, and mind-matter. All these are various vibrations and frequencies of the mind. Nothing exists which is not made from the mind. Yes, made from the mind, but who is making them? Who is using the mind to make things? Is the mind giving forth the forms, or are the forms the wisdom of the beings using the mind? Now we can trace it. We have the mind as formless super-substance. In this formless super-substance, which is everywhere, we have the total wisdom of the infinite beingness and these beings, the archangelic beings, and there I have the will- pleasure as laws, causes, and principles. The reflection in those vibrations now of the mind, I see the forms. So the forms is the result of the causes, of the principles, of the laws, being not yet existing, being in the total wisdom of the all-mightiness, and now existing in the manifestation of this total wisdom of the absolute beingness, which is the locus. Locus means manifestation. I don't see a second God now. I see the same God, the absolute infinite beingness, manifesting using the total wisdom and then manifesting the will-pleasure of the infinite beingness through now the principles, the laws, and the causes as forms. Billions and billions and billions of forms from the atom, the world, everything existing. Nothing can exist not having a form. So the forms are creating the world of existence. And we can find the forms now in the mind matter, I mean the material plane, as the planet, the solar system, the galaxies, and everything, everything manifesting a living form, living form, because everywhere is life. The absolute infinite beingness is life. So manifesting itself in a form. Now we see the forms on the material plane. But that's not all the material plane, the world of existence, because we have also what we call the ethereal planes. And nothing can exist materially unless it has the etheric counterpart, the will-pleasure of the infinite beingness, which I call it desire, emotion, we don't have the proper words to use, which is causing the vibrations of the so-called now substance, creating the so-called psychical world, or the emotional world. Nothing material, ethereal, can exist unless it has in it this will-pleasure, desire, emotion, call it whatever you like, of the absolute infinite beingness and of the beings working with it, which are the Archangels. So you have the psychical world, but you have also the noetical world. In the noetical world, it's just the real world of the forms. This is what we call the mind world. The world of thought forms. What are beyond the noetical world? A super substance. Yes, we said that. The world of the principles, of the laws, of the ideas. So far we can reach with our human intelligence. There are things beyond that. Which a human being cannot conceive. A human being. But we are not only human beings. We are gods. We are spirit, soul, egos. That's a different thing. So we can use the mind world expressing, now, as human beings, a human intelligence. And can express also, in the material world, all around us here, a kind of petty little self. The shadow of our real self. Yet that self, of a man or a woman, centered in a name and in a form, and in a kind of understanding and conceiving things, that petty little self, the personality, has in it life. So its nature is God. Its expressions are human. So through that gate, which is the heart of our personality, we can pierce through that gate to find our real beingness. To find that we are beings, spirit, soul, egos. These are the teachings of Christ, of Joshua the Christ, the God-man. That was the purpose of his incarnation into a human body. To teach us that we are not just all the other animals all around us, just only a little step forward. But that we are gods and sons of the Almighty. So, yes, good theory. But theories, without practical proof, apart from being dangerous and illusionary, they are not worthy of anything unless we can prove it. Unless there is a proof. Unless we find the truth in it. Even that Joshua the Christ says, know the truth and the truth will set you free from the illusions and lead you to the knowledge, to the wisdom. Christ is not teaching us to believe with closed eyes and blindly. And if some priests do suggest that, tell them they are not Christians. Because these suggestions of Christ, the locus, Joshua, we are not just believe blindly. But seek the truth, find the truth and the truth will liberate us from all illusions. And what are his instructions? You are gods. But it's not enough just to believe it, only that you are gods because you wish to believe that, but you must be perfect as your Heavenly Father. Be ye perfect as your Heavenly Father. This is the instruction. Not simply believing it without having the proof. He had shown his divine nature in the works he was doing. We call them miracles. They are not miracles, they are phenomena in life. The only miracle is life. He had shown many, many things, proving them. He was not just presenting theories only. He had also the proof of it. He said, I am God. They took stones to stone him, calling himself God and Son of God. Then he said, but what is written in the Bible? It's written God through the mouth of the prophets didn't say, you are God, you, every one of you. He was addressing people and saying, you are gods. He was proving it. He says, if you don't believe to what I say, believe at least to what I am doing. You see what I am doing. Not only that, he who believes in me, in him, who, Joshua, that human being there, no, in the Christhood, because he was representing the Christhood, that who believes because he knows the Christhood, what I am doing, that one will do the same and still more and greater things will do. He didn't say, I am doing that and I am the only Son of God. And going departing, he says, I'm going to my father and your father, to my God and you are God, meaning the absolute infinite beingness. So we have the proof that what is God, the eternal life, the absolute infinite beingness. I am the way, the truth, and life. That's clear. He called himself life. So he had shown the way. Not only that, the persuasion, here is the way. He who wants to follow me, let him shoulder his cross and follow me. His cross, which cross? The way we are living in life. And the cross of everyone is not the same with the crosses of others. Follow him. Great meaning in these sayings, which people really never engage themselves with the thought to see what he meant, Joshua, the Godman Christ. So, now we have the statement, we had the proof, and we had also, not the suggestion, the persuasion to follow him. Follow him in what? Just finding out, even as human beings, as a personality, being gods in nature and human in expression, to find our divine inheritance. So this is stressed quite clearly, the way, how. We have the means, the mind. We have also the instructions how to use the mind. Watch ye and pray so that we'll not enter into temptation. Then we are asking, what is temptation? And how is it that we should watch and pray? What does it mean, watch and pray? Now, let us not use it in the church language, but scientifically. Temptation is the desire, are the emotion, what we call temptation. So, we should use the mind in meditating, be watchful to the emotion, to the thought, to the emotional side of our human nature, control it, to find our way. Now, in the Gospel, you find everything stated, with the difference that Joshua the Christ was using different words than what we are using now. So, watch is what I call be aware of, study, concentrate, meditate, watch and pray, meditate. That's a different thing. That will not enter into temptation, that will not be misguided by the desires, the emotions and what follows the emotions and the desires, the weaknesses, enmity, cruelty, the feeling of taking revenge, aggressiveness. He spoke even for all that, describing them, Christ. He was the first who clearly spoke about the elementals, calling them evil spirits, the elementals. He not only described them, but he said also how they are created and how they behave. He says that evil spirit coming out from the human body, from the human mind, goes to waterless places, space. He described just the surroundings and then returns back home, coming back to the mind. Coming with it, seven other spirits worse than it, entering, finding its home, clean. That means that moment there were no more evil thoughts, but it found its way back. The seven gates are the seven centers of energy in the etheric double, seven. He even described the number when it enters, what happens in what we call now possession. We had what they called being influenced and possessed by the evil spirits. People throwing themselves down, just showing the signs of epilepsy and all things. You can find everything in the Bible, in the New Testament. And these civil court spirits, we call them bad elementals, had their own intelligence, which was just the intelligence of the fellow who had projected them. In one case, when he met a fellow just on the ground showing signs of epilepsy and approaching him, that man was speaking, expressing the elementals which were in him. And they took the first part, yes, we know you, you are the son of God and you came just to torture us. So that means that even these elementals have ill feelings, the feeling of being tortured, knowing it because they were torturing the fellow who accepted them. They have even suggestions, don't cast us to the darkness, but allow us to go to this herd of the swine, stated in the Bible. He said, all right, who are you? Say who you are. They said, we are a legion, we are too many, torturing the fellow. Of course, he ordered them to leave that man. And they entered in the herd of the swine. Even the swine didn't accept them, and they threw their material bodies in the sea and had been drowned. Even the swine didn't like to accept them. So it's what describes the elementals. And what they do. Now, what do we know? Don't think that things have changed. There are many amongst us, around us, who are possessed by these elementals. Now, they think they are devils. No, these are their own elementals. And they are responsible either for their creation or for their revitalization from slaughtering elementals of the kind in their group, elemental. Because like seeks like. No evil elemental can torture or enter in any innocent and clean person. We must have that in mind. Vibrating in those rates and frequencies of the vibration of these elementals, we attract them, just like a magnet, and allow them to come and find entrance through the centers of vitality of our etheric double. That's clear. So, to protect ourselves from these elementals is not by being afraid of them, but by being clean ourselves. Clean, not to attract them. I assure you, no bad elemental can influence anyone who is not vibrating in the same frequency and vibrations with them. Vibrating how? Feeling certain desires, emotions, which are not in reality clean. So, we are responsible. Because evil elementals, they are good elementals also, are attracted by the rate and frequency of the vibrations of the etheric double of our psychical body. So, we have to work on the psychical body to keep it clean. Now, can we meet these elementals on a higher level, which is what I call the noetical plane? Yes, in the lower noetical plane, we can find them. But not in higher planes. Usually, these elementals have as their main body, the emotion, the desire of the fellow who is just creating them, and very little mind. I call it cunningness. How to carry out the aims of that elemental? Very, very little mind and much emotion. So, elementals with reasoning and just the only emotional part of it is to create them and make them of some service to humanity and to us, is creating, now I'll call them angelic elementals, constructive elementals, real thought forms and not emotion thought forms. So, we classify now their quality as, let us use a more plain word, good and bad elementals. So, in the same way, we can give life, create or revitalize a bad elemental, we can do a good elemental. Why not do a good elemental, positive, constructive and create a bad elemental, torturing us and others who are vibrating at the same rate of vibrations with those elementals. Now, where are these elementals stored up in our personality? First of all, our personality, is the sum total of these elementals good or bad? These elementals are composing our present day personality, personality of Mary, Helen, George or Peter. So, where are these elementals, good and bad, stored up in our personality? In the esoteric double of our material body, in the esoteric double which coincides in space, of our psychical body, mainly there. And in the esoteric double of our noetical body, in the lower parts of the noetical body, coinciding in what I say place, place. Where is the place? The personality of man. And what do we call that storehouse which is in the personality? People are calling it subconsciousness. Now, we'll call it subconscious mind which is in every personality, in every person and I would rather say it is the three-fourths of that personality. The one-fourth is what I would call consciousness. Consciousness or subconsciousness? Because a human being now is living subconsciously, thinking and believing that he's living consciously. Being all the time under the influence of the subconscious mind. When one should live consciously? When one will develop the self-consciousness. When one will understand what is the self. Because we are living, but who is really self-conscious even of his present personality? As Mary or as Peter. So we have to develop our subconsciousness, thinking it is our consciousness, into what I call self-consciousness on its lowest level, which is the personality. Yet, and that is not the self. It is the shadow of our self, our present personality. How? Now I use the right word. Through awareness. Is that the word? Awareness? So awareness will wake us up from this subconscious condition to our self-conscious condition. This awareness. Is this awareness the self? Even as the present personality? In nature it's God. This awareness. Yes, it is the self. In nature. But in expression? It's human. Which means we start as Helen, Mary, George and Constance. Our concentration and our work. And we must find the qualities. And the nature of the self even in the personality. Because according to the sayings of Joshua the Christ, the God-man, the perishable should become imperishable. Because in reality it is imperishable. It's life. And the continuously changing of the personality will become steady. As self-consciousness now. So this called awareness will lead us to the self- consciousness. Or put another word. Getting the habit of observation. Yes, that leads to self-awareness. Don't try in Eastern schools to find this truth. They don't know them. They make great fakirs and yogis of cheap quality. Getting out to show phenomena so that you remain with open mouth. They don't lead you to the truth. The truth, you can find it through the gospel. Through the Christhood. Through the instructions and the life of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. Unfortunately in Europe, being influenced by the stupidity of certain priests, people are rejecting Christianity. That's very bad. Priests and narrow-minded and hard-hearted priests are not representing the Lord, the God of love and mercy and compassion. You will find it. The church, which church? Yes, of course, all churches. The Eastern churches, the Western churches, all the dogmas. Yes, there are centers where people may go according to their own mentality to pray. But for a real Christian there is only one church. As a place. The planet. There is only the Holy of Holies in this church. Your own heart. You have to make your heart the Holy of Holies. So that you will understand and know what is God. Joshua the Christ said, Blessed are the pure in heart. You are Holy of Holies. For they shall see God. They shall understand what is life. Eternal life. Everlasting life. The absolute infinite beingness. And in your sanctuary you will find your real self and God. That is the place. Not just exercising certain kind of training to use a little bit of the etheric double of your material body and show phenomena of telekinesis by using thought. This anybody can do. With just a little training. And in our center this is prohibited. Showing phenomena is magic. And we are not going to create magicians. You must have that in your mind. At least myself, I am the worst opponent of magic. And let Fuchs call me Magus. I am against it. Phenomena, why? Our first aim is first of all to exterminate and annihilate completely our personality's egoism. Which is this egoism? Just the subtotal of these elementals composing our present day personality. And showing phenomena to others. What is the aim behind it? Just to please your human egoism? What else? That means you are still the slave of a human egoism. How will you find out your real self then? How will you reach self-realization? By being slave of an idol which bears your name and the way you are thinking as a human being. So first of all we should get rid of this personal egoism. To see the way. Did Joshua the Christ show any egoism even as a human being? No. He was presenting the Christhood. He was not presenting a personality. He was presenting God. Being God. So we must find the real way back to our real nature. To our real self. And I said God gave us as human beings very very precious gifts. Without asking anything from us. Not even to acknowledge it and thank him. He doesn't care about it. He has given to each one of us, man or a woman, a perfect human body. In form. He, or rather it, the absolute beingness is not male or female. Life is not male or female. He gave us a material body. Expressing his total wisdom and love and all-mightiness. So that we, now, as a shadow of our real self, spirit, soul, express and develop a time and place personality. Personality, a kind of self. I repeat, in nature God. In expression human. And I gave an example yesterday. A line. With two ends. There can never be a line without two ends. The divine and the human. Because we must draw it until we find that center. Daskalos - Living the Gospel of Christ 2 Now, we must draw the two points of the line to the center to find our real I-ness, our real self-ego. Yes, of course, drawing from the material state that then to come to the center, we understand it. Draw also that point, which is our spiritual self, to the center. Yes. Why? Because unless we do that, and we carry that center to that point, we cannot retain our selfhood as human beings. And whatever we have learned and mastered on the material plane, we have it. Because if that was not so, then we would lose ourselves, even our present-day self, our selfhood, and the absolute infinite beingness. In Nirvana, this is just a mistake of certain Buddhists. I had a Buddhist before some time. He was very advanced. He told me, yes, but are you sure you have a self? I said, yes, this is what is your mistake. Your Nirvana doesn't mean annihilation. It doesn't mean nothingness. Otherwise, why did the absolute infinite beingness have allowed the lost son to go out and get his experiences and come back, thinking the lost son would come back? It is in the divine plan. What for? Why do you think this absolute infinite beingness, your father, God, your father, granted you the material body you have now, so perfectly constructed? And why did the absolute infinite beingness employ all the archangelic orders, these beings you are brothers, to work in this body and in the other bodies, to form organs, keep a complete whole, so that you will develop as a personality in that body? Is that stupidity in the total wisdom of God? No. It is the divine plan. Yes, the human body and the other bodies have been constructed, and they are kept in good order for the development of the shadow of the proper self into a kind of material, personal self, to get experiences and bring them back home to its own nature. So one, a seeker of the truth, should try to understand the divine plan, to understand what is a phenomenon in life, the phenomena of life, all around us, in all the planes, the material, the psychical and the neurotical, to find its place, that phenomenon of life called human being. Human being. What remains is the being, and you are a being, divine, holy, as all the other beings in God who are the archangelic orders. So, the human being is divine and holy. Divine in nature should be holy in expression. Now, Joshua the Christ, that perfect and immaculate ray of the locust who came down, incarnated into a human body, humanized a body, bringing the absolute infinite selfhood into individual selfhood, feeling himself that every one of us is in him, and he is in everyone, not only us in the locust, even Joshua the Christ, and he has proved it. He has proved it, in so much as you do to one of these brethren, the least brethren of mine, you are doing it to me. Joshua the Christ existed before the birth of the human being called Joshua the Christ in the conception of God. He found the time, materializing itself in the human world, stayed for 33 years, teaching, proving the truth. The flesh is nothing, it is the spirit which is giving the life. Here you are. Crucify him. When they came to arrest him in the Garden of Gethsemane, there, and Peter thought with his little sword he could protect him. He said, put it there, and you should know the law. Those who use that sword will perish by this sword. And if I want, he said, can I not ask my father and bring legions of angels to protect me from these human beings? But I came for this hour to prove that flesh is nothing. And he said, many occasions, that and that and that will happen to me. They will tease me. They will mock me. They will scorch me. That and that, but in the third day crucify me. In the third day I will resurrect my body. He said that. And he had to prove it. That he was God. Yes. God prevailed over the human. Just think now for a moment. Make this visualization. Keeping a human body, mocking, beating, putting that thorny crown, blood coming, his knees wounded, the body wounded very badly. They have used the whip on his body. A great martyrdom. And then, laying him down and nailing him on the cross. Raising him up to die by hemorrhage. Exhaustion. That was the aim of the crucifixion. To die by loss of blood, hemorrhage. And being there in the very last moment, before saying, Father, to your hands I commend my spirit, looking down to his killers there with love. He should love each other as I have loved you. Saying, Father, forgive them. They do not know what they are doing. Was he God or not? Yes. So, and he proved it. He raised up his body. Where is he now? Twenty years after the crucifixion. Twenty, no, centuries. After the crucifixion, where is he now? Where there are two or three in my name, I am amongst them. Here. Everywhere. In every body. Because he is the divine selfhood. And Johanan the Evangelist, his first cousin, who loved him, who was beloved by him and who knew him because he was an archangel who accompanied him on the planet. What did he say? In him is life. Nothing had been created which had not been created through him, being in Christ, being the Logos. In him is life and the life is the light of men, the light of men, of every human being, which means the self-consciousness of a man. So, he was feeling that time the feelings of everyone. And he is feeling now, every one of us, loving us now. What do you think was the cup? He asked the father a few minutes before his arrest, it's your will, move it from me. Fearing death. He didn't show any weakness. He expected it. He predicted it and expected it. What was the cup? Just read there in the Bible. Father, if it is your will also, move this cup from me. Which was that? The bloodshed which will follow all through this 20 centuries and now even in Europe. Catholics killing Protestants and Protestants killing Catholics. Now, everywhere. What about the bloodshed all through the centuries? Inasmuch that you do to one of this list of my brethren, you are doing it to me. Anything one is doing, good or evil, like to another human being, is doing it to him. He is feeling it. That's the cup he requested. And beseeching him now to move it. Because he had loved the human being. So you, being human beings, the greatest honor by the logoic absolute infinite beingness, we should understand it. We came, we were born to live as human beings just because that was the divine plan. You say, what is the divine plan after all? To become masters of the mind matter in your material body. To become the masters of the mind emotion, desires, way of living, of behaving. And lastly, to become masters of the mind as reasoning and thought. Developing as a present day personality. The petty little self which the logos will save. The perishable in expression will become imperishable. Being in nature imperishable. You are ego. You are selfhood. You are present day selfhood. So this is the aim. Is that our aim in life now? To use the divine and most precious gift of God which is mind as thought and reasoning? Do we use thought and reasoning? Or do we expect others to think for us? We are using the material organs of our material body. Feet playing football, hands working, getting certain skills, even using a dagger to kill. Do we use our mind? We should. That's the aim of the law, the absolute infinite beingness. So it's a great honor in a phenomenon of life being called human. But we should be human. Are we human? Or sometimes worse than the animals around us? Animals? There are rhinos and animals also, but there are also wild beasts around us. Killing. Killing. But again, killing what? Don't be afraid of those who kill your material body and cannot touch your soul. He spoke about the soul. About our beingness. About our own nature. There was nothing which Joshua, the Christ, didn't reveal concerning his father and our father, his God and our God, and himself as the locus. So, the aim in life is to be human. That's the way. Through being human, we have to develop our petty little self, develop in it all the stages of consciousness. Now we have expressed today our self as instinct. Subconsciousness. Not yet waking consciousness. We have to develop what we call the self-awareness. The self-consciousness. And using the mind, controlling emotion, using the mind properly, constructively, we understand that we are not the mind. The mind is an instrument in our hands. By practice, observation, we know what's the truth. Then going by using the mind, beyond the mind, we develop in our self, finding our real self in it, what I call super-consciousness. And through super-consciousness, by attunement, and then by at-one-ment, the oneness, we know who is the locus, who is Christ. Joshua the Christ, who will be in ourselves the reality, will be rewarded by the Christhood, not leaving anything except what is considered to be evil, and it is a misconception. Carrying with us the human. That's what I said, yes, the line of the spirit. So, coming to the center, we'll carry also that center, which is our selfhood. We are not going to be lost as an individual self in a kind of Hindu nirvana. We'll keep our selfhood. Because, yes, not we have a self, we are that self, we are that ego, we'll keep our I-ness. This is stated also in the parable of the lost son. In the parable of the lost son, when the so-called lost son, which was in the divine plan, just cardinal sin and all that are imaginations of the priests, they do not exist, it is the divine plan. So, going out, got his property, that means the mind, in all its form. Yes, lived the life, a human being is living as a prodigal son, so-called prodigal son, undergoing bitter, painful experiences to reach the awareness, becoming the god of the swine, that means of the elementals. The swine are the elementals. And then, getting back home to his father. Getting back home, how his father had behaved, it's stated in the parable. Making a step towards the father, the father makes another nine steps to come and meet him and embrace him. He gave also the parable of the lost sheep. He said, who? Losing a sheep. He's not leaving the 99 in the herd and goes out to find it. When he will find it, he will put it on his shoulder as a good shepherd and bring it back to the herd. It's clear. So, when the prodigal son came back, what did the father do? Dress him, the first dress of a prince. He was a prince. He placed on his finger the ring. What does it mean? What's the ring? The circle is the symbol of eternity. There's no beginning, no end. As long as there is motion and move, without stopping, what is the beginning and what is the end? That's the ring. Now you know what is time and eternity. Something the archangels do not understand. Many times, contacting myself with the archangels, I'm telling them, what's time? They don't understand. They say, now. They know what is eternal now. But they cannot understand what is past, present, and future. Now, I know what is eternal now, of course. No one can explain this eternal now. So, coming back, he has the golden ring. All the experiences of his course, Christ said, I am the way and the truth and life. Now, he says that certain archangelic orders felt offended. Not doing so much as the prodigal son knows now. They don't have a golden ring in their fingers. And the father has sacrificed the well-fed bull. The archangel said, I am with you. You never have sacrificed even a small animal for me to enjoy with my friends. How? He never had any material body. Which means sacrificing, that means the material body has to be sacrificed. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of the heavens, said Joshua the Christ. Flesh and blood. He didn't say the form. He didn't say the human form. We have to separate the materialized human form and the form. He said flesh and blood. He didn't say your material form. Because leaving out this material body to decay in the grave or be cremated, you find yourself with your form, with all the characteristics, your characteristics in the psychical plane. Casting even the psychical so-called substance, you find yourself in a brighter substance, a super substance. Again in your form, in the form you had. Then you say, in which age, when I am in that form, which form am I in the neurotic plane? Which form? You are a master of your circle of possibilities. You have the form of the spermatozoon. You have the form, all the forms you have undergone to grow up in scrapping your life in the material world. You have the form you have in the psychical plane, in the neurotic plane, completing till you will be reincarnated again. That form, which form now? You are now in the eternal now. You are now under the illusions of time as present, past and future. And what is death? There is death of the material form, not of the form. Because the form is the circle of possibilities. Now you, every one of you, no matter in which age you are, just think what form, material form, you had before 20 years. Still more back when you were little children, boys or girls, crawling on the ground. Where is that child? In matter, in material form. It's gone. Now you are what you are now. What will be after 30 years if you live in the material body? Not even one particle of your material body now, an atom will remain in that form. It's you. Yet you will be you. So Saint Paul said, every day I'm dying. He meant that. So we are changing from minute to minute as a material form, not as a form. We are going gradually round and round. I am the way, he said. The truth and life, your life. What concerns you is your highness and life. Not a certain age in the material form of death and of the soil. Now you find that this life in the material form on the earth, in earth and soil, is the most precious because you don't remember. I don't say you don't know. You don't remember any other better way of life. But knowing you prefer the other kind of life. Somebody will ask you now, would you like to become this moment, that child, making yourself dirty and rubbing your nose like that with your clothes and playing and crying and shouting without any cause and reason? You say, of course not! Because now you know something else. I am using the mind and I am reasoning. At that time I didn't know anything. That age. Now when you reach in a period of such a life, different from today, and you remember the way you are feeling, thinking now with your weaknesses, with the pain caused by desires and emotions, and will ask you, just see. You will see in the same way you see now your childhood. You say, oh, how stupid I was at that time. And then how do you gain it? What I call self-awareness. So we come to a conclusion. What is the reality? Your spirit, ego, self, your I-ness, as a human being in expression and as God in nature. Because our nature is divine. And our expression is human. Now we will make a meditation. I think we took it very deep waters today. I don't know if you understood the lesson. Now getting from your mind, I find that most of you really did understand the lesson. Come on, relax completely the material body. You can be the masters of that body even as a personality. Because in nature you are gods. Forget the way you are behaving. If it is not sober and wise. In nature you are gods. Now you can be masters of your material body. And the holy archangels, the creators, the builders in it, be sure they are not offended. They rejoice seeing you developing. Feel your material body completely relaxed. Believe me, it is under good care of the locusts and the archangels. They all the time try to repair damages caused by you. By your way of living. Breathe deeply and feel what? Who am I? Who am I? You are a woman. Your attention will be to the woman you are now. A man to a man. To your human material form. But that is not you. You are changing. Try to find your I-ness. Your self now. The heart of your personality. And not the rest of your personality's body. You are you. Try to understand what you are. Not who you are. Who is too material. This is the word of the existence. What you are. God. Yet you have a form. You will keep your form. That's yours. The infinite Father allowed you, a spirit soul, to create this form of yours. You have. And you will keep it. In eternity. Which means you are human form. Put the question to yourself. What am I? As life. As a living being. What am I? As life. As a living being. And what am I now? As a human being. A man or a woman. I am George. I am Helen. Take out George and Helen. And find the reality. I am. The I-ness is the reality. And the word am means existing. Being. Being and existing. The equality. The expression of your I-ness. Concentrate on the I. Concentrate on your selfhood. Divine selfhood. Not human. Everlasting life. Spirit, soul, ego. Calm down every thought. You are not the mind. The mind is an instrument. For you to use. Calm down every emotion. You are not the emotions. The emotions are changing all the time. Your interests in life are changing all the time. Forget your body. Yet concentrate. Feeling you are in this material body. Enough. Someday you will be able to make another exercise. Get out of your material body. And feel your I-ness more clear. Moving anywhere you are. Seeing your material body as a cloth. You took off and put it there and you can put it back again. Then you find out that your material brains are nothing. What counts is you. What Christ said. The spirit is going anywhere it likes to go. That are words which Christ spoke to Nicodemus in private. Because they mutilated much that dialogue. But there are still many things remaining there. So. Unless you master consciousness in the material body in this way. You will not be able to get out of your body. Many like just to have that eczematosis. But I am telling you. If it is in your time to do it naturally. It is not a blessing. So. It needs long sincere training. And one day. Maybe a night. It doesn't matter. Without expecting it you will find yourself out. Without trying to do it. Many have succeeded. But I am warning you. You shouldn't be afraid. You should just then try to use reasoning and observation. You can come back anytime you like in your body. As you can come back home anytime you like when you are out. That life for you has a very different meaning. Then you start entering into the fields of the self-realization. Yet again on the lowest stages. Because there are more and more and more. Until you reach your divine nature. The divine self. Daskalos - On the Subconsiousness Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation. And deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute infinite beingness God, everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your mightiness in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. I had before some days a question by a German, well, well educated, having even the title of a doctor, philosophy. He was talking to me and he said, really, this word Christian, Christianity, I don't like it. I was born, he says, as a Protestant. My father was a Protestant. My mother was Catholic. Then I went to the Catholic religion again, but I am detested. I have kicked away all these kinds of religion. And really the word Christian and Christianity and Christ is making me sick. He started laughing. I said, look here, you don't like it and you like to find a way. Well, I told him, don't call yourself a Christian and be one. He said, be one? Yes. What does it mean, be one? Love your enemies. Love those who love you. Love your neighbor. Do you agree to that? He said, yes. And then you are a Christian. What do you think that Christ really came to teach you? If you don't like the system, the dogma, and of course the behavior of the priests, that's a different matter. Don't call yourself a Christian and be one. There is no other way. The way of the heart, purifying the heart and using the mind in the reasonable and logical way. There is no other way. Which means that we must see what the absolute beingness God gave us. Life. The right to preach, to eat, and live in our material body. Give these substances to the archangels to build our material body. That's good, but still better it is to use the mind. A super substance, substance and ether and everything, to make our life comfortable on the planet and the life of all around us comfortable by loving people, understanding people, not allowing the devil of egoism in us to torture other people and at the end we are torturing ourselves. Nobody can torture another man and not torture himself in the same way. So, let us not call ourselves Christians, because I'm telling you, in other religions, in Buddhism, in Brankheim Humanism, among the Muslims, there are people who are using these powers of the mind as reasoning and loving, who will find their way. So, it is not only the words, it is the actions and the disposition that really count. When asked by some disciples, Christ, that certain people, sir, are doing that, they are doing that and that, shall we stop? He said, no. Those who are not against us are with us. And I have many, many sheep who do not belong to this herd I call mine. That's clear. Joshua said that in the Bible. So, should not think fanatically as Christians that nobody can be saved if he's not baptized with a Christian name and is called a Christian. We should not go to the other side of fanaticism. I had the visit before two years of a Hindu, good yogi, very good yogi, who gained psychical powers, that fellow. He was a doctor of philosophy, teaching in the University of Delhi. He came without just saying who he was. He entered the door, came in my room, I was sitting, looking at me. Of course, he was dressed like a European, nobody could understand, he was well shaved, with nothing to understand that he's a Hindu, except the color. But anyhow, the color of the Hindus have many symbols like that, and others. He came, sat there. Of course, I had a lady in my house from Greece. I have asked her, would you please prepare two cups of coffee for both of us? She said, yes. She went and prepared, the man came with it, he's putting it on the table there. Without saying any word, this fellow, with the power of his thought and using what are called telekinesis, he got the little plate with the cup of coffee, brought it to him, looking at me, if he had impressed me. I started smiling. Of course, I knew who he was without any introduction. He told me with his thought. Then he finished it. I got it from his hands from far away, brought it back and put it in place. You're looking at me just in wonder. I said, why you have done that? You have done nothing. That's nothing. Just with training, just to project, I said, your etheric double, and with visualization, you can do it. What do you think you have done? He didn't waste the time at all. Instead of replying, he saw me like that and he put me the question in Sanskrit. What's the truth? I started laughing. I said, me, you, God, everything is the truth. The manifestation I told him, just in Sanskrit, of the total wisdom and the real pleasure of God. He said, yes, this is what I found out also. He said, as hot as you want. I've read the Bible from the beginning to the end. Yes? There is everything good. I like it. It's very good. But there is something really I didn't like at all. Hot was it, I told him. The Bible says that Christ said nobody can go to the Father and nobody can be saved except through me. True, I told him. What about us, he said, who are not Christians? Who told you you are not a Christian? Do you think you are not? He said, no. I'm a Brahmin. I started laughing. Look here. You said you read the Bible. Well, did you read, I said, St. John? Only the first, I said, sentences about the locus and Joshua is the locus. What does it say? It says there, in him is life, and the life is the light of men, which means the self-consciousness of every human being. And Christians believe that he is the Agnus Dei, Ketoli, Pagada Mundi, the Lamb of God who raised the sins of the world. He said, who told you that that principle, don't call him Joshua the Christ, call him principle of love, of understanding, of the mind, of the self-consciousness, is not in you. So, through your self-consciousness, you will go, I said, to his salvation. He said, no. He said, here, as you put it, I accept it. I said, it's not Christians only, those baptized belonging to one dogma or the other dogma by a priest presenting his hand to get paid. I said, it's very different. Yes, it is through him, the principle of love and understanding. That's Christianity. I'm telling you, most people are good Christians without calling them so and without knowing it. And there are many stupid people calling themselves Christians and they slap you if you tell them they are not Christians, who are not at all Christians, hating the others, fighting the others, and kneeling before a satanic idol called personal egoism. Now, in our order of the research of the truth, the first duty, I'm just advising people, is to annihilate completely or kill the personal egoism and clean the heart from everything which is hostile to human beings. There is only one gate to the heavens, the heart. Joshua gave the Beatitudes. He gave a code of behavior in these Beatitudes. But the best is the one saying, blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Only through the heart one can see God. So, before starting anything else to do and claiming to have the right to spiritual development, the heart should be cleaned. There should never be in your heart any feeling, even as complained against any other human being, because under the roots of the truth of complaining is the serpent of hatred, sleeping. Don't wake it up. So, it is the discipline of the heart. How can we do that? Yes, that's the way. By starting using the mind and the brain as reasonable thought and as observation, checking your emotions, checking your desires, checking your dispositions in life, your purposes in life. Just checking what you do in the society around you, at home, in the office, in the street, everywhere. This is using the mind now and observation and reasoning, free from the influences of a personal egoism, all the time intervening, just to find out what's desire, what's thought, what can I do with them, what I was doing until now with them, being their slave, the slave of certain desires, the slave of certain thoughts, as beliefs, fanaticism, which leads to what? To obstinacy. So, one has to study things all around and within. And really, cleaning should be inside. Then we shall start knowing the nature of the mind, a super substance, substance, ether, and substance, and start now creating good elementals, constructing elementals, and then the way how to disenergize elementals, casting them to the cosmic consciousness of the planet, freeing ourselves from their influence and all the others from their influence. So, it needs training and sincerity with yourself how to do it. So, this is the way back where? To the truth. Which truth? What you are. And why? What for? To save yourself from the troubles, to enjoy life, to understand what's life. Life is good, instead of having life as an intolerable burden on your shoulders. Because if I ask 100 people, 100 persons, are you now satisfied of your life? Are you satisfied of life? How many do you think they will say they are? Why should not all be satisfied of living, being themselves the life? Why should they be influenced by the surroundings which they and the others have created, causing pain, misery, and agony, and a modern word now, angst. Is that what you call it? That's a new invention now, and you have it in all the languages of the world. It is Greek word. It is a new invention for masochism. Yes. Now, we should get rid of it by right thinking and sincerity with ourselves. Now, there is another point you have to note. You are not just to go to the other way or become a real masochist, avoiding to be a masochist, which means, oh, what am I? A sinner. A lost one. That's stupid. Don't criticize yourself even. Don't criticize others, and don't criticize yourself. Study, understand the true state of things, and get rid of them. Don't go against yourself. That's stupid. And believe me, the egoism, not having either way to torture you, will use that. Repentance. I don't understand this word. Instead of repentance, I would say real understanding. Well, it's not real understanding. A kind of repentance with a better word now, instead of having masochistic tendencies in it. So, knowing things, freeing yourself from these tortures and pain and agony is what it should be, and not start accusing either others or yourself. So, what is the aim of everybody, not only the seekers of the truth, is to get advantage of the holy, divine gift of the mind, and use it as reasonable thought. I say again, the poorest man in money, and in material things, he's very, very rich. By using his real treasures, thinking, the mind, and thanks God, he gave to every human being this right of using the mind. So, there is no excuse. And I said in a lesson, the mind is the substance with which we will build up either our hell or our paradise, our prison or our palace. This is the way of thinking. And the dispositions of the heart, because in the heart are all the hells and all the paradises. That's the gate towards the hell or towards the paradise. What do we have to purify the heart? Because if it's not purified, we'll be in darkness, and we need light. Who are from who shall get the light? We are the light. Our self-consciousness, using the mind, is the light. You realize it after you start practicing reason. Now, we said about the elementals. One of the duties is just to study these elementals already composing your present personality or your subconsciousness. We are losing many, many, many hours aimlessly. Why should we not dispose some time in introspection, that means looking within, checking how is now our subconsciousness or our personality. It is the same. It is synonym. What are the defects? What do we have just to take out and what to put in our subconsciousness? Study the nature of the subconsciousness. Now, I'm telling you something very, very important, which you have in your mind. This subconsciousness is a storehouse. Half of it is in our hands, and we made it very, very, very dirty and filthy, but smelling. And the ruler of this part of the storehouse is a devil called personal egoism. And we, we are slumbering without suspecting that we are not that egoist master of that part of our storehouse, our subconsciousness. The other half is in the hands of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Archangels, get the divine substance, and with it they are feeding our bodies, building our bodies. So, everything is one in that side. And from that other side comes and rushes in that dirty side the substance of the mind we are using, making it dirty. So we ask about our daily bread, we spoil it and then we eat it. We don't eat it, pure and good. So, but in between these two states, by the egoism and by the Holy Archangels is built a new state of things, which is called the subconsciousness. Now, with another meaning, the subconsciousness, or we call it the subconscious mind. And this is a power keeping some balance. This kind of subconsciousness, not our subconsciousness, but that subconsciousness we must know and cooperate with it. Of course, cleaning our subconsciousness, we purify that side of that general subconsciousness, which is for every human being. What is the quality of this mind subconscious? First of all, it is not reasoning. It is a neutral ground. And from it are getting the life and the power, the etheric vitality, the three bodies. And by the suggestions we make, becoming auto-suggestions, that part of the subconsciousness is working, controlling the mind. So everything which happens to a human being comes from this side of his existence, I call the subconscious mind. Let me not call it subconsciousness. I repeat it. It is not reasoning, but obeying suggestions and orders. Whatever you say and you believe will influence your material body, your psychical and your nautical body. And it is that part, Joshua the Christ said, he who has faith and knows, with that subconsciousness can tell the mountain, go away and it will go. Now, how does the subconsciousness work? There was a fellow who was practicing hypnotism. He was a doctor. Of course, it's many, many years I have seen myself this thing. It was summer. Fellow, half in trance, not completely in trance, naked from the navel upwards, it was summer, was looking at the eyes of the hypnotizer. A fellow was roaming about in front of him with a cigarette. Just making it bright. Then going behind him, that fellow was influenced. That fellow was just going around. Then in a moment, the doctor said, no, no, don't do it. Don't do it. Of course, he was scared. What is he going to do? No, don't put your cigarette on the shoulder of this fellow. Why you should do this stupid thing? And the fellow touched that fellow with a pencil. That fellow was influenced. That fellow was shrieking as being burned. When the pencil was away, the burn was there, as if the cigarette was placed there. Now, some are doing performances on the stage. Hot performances. They put in trance a fellow. They tell him, they suggest him, you become light as a feather. And you see what they say, levitation. The body becomes very light, going up. You can see this phenomenon now. They are doing it, unfortunately, on the stage, instead of studying all these cases scientifically. So, there is what we call the subconscious mind. In between, I said, our personality and gets all the day suggestions. If you see somebody with cancer, and you are afraid, oh, I got this. Maybe that's cancer. Cancer will come. And if you have cancer, real cancer, test it. Say, no, that will go. It will go. Day and night, I see all these things with people coming to me. So, most of the people are playing stupid games to themselves with their subconsciousness. It's better for psychiatrists and psychiatric healers to know all this about the subconscious mind and how to work with it. So, when you want to get rid of something, an illness or some evil, emotionally or mentally, take it out from your mind. Be disinterested. Forget it. And order it to go. It will go. Now, certain weaknesses, you want to get rid of it. Alcoholism, adultery, gambling, even stealing and all that. If you fight them, you will not succeed to overcome them. The more you think and fight them, the more strong they become in pressing you. If you want to get rid of anything, take out of it your interest. Forget it. Let it go. It will be dis-energized and go to the cosmic consciousness. This is how we must work with our subconscious mind. I do not call it subconsciousness. Which is in our personality. And which is the hour, the best hour to work with it and implant these suggestions. The time you are feeling sleepy and you go to bed, just that time, say what you want. It will obey you. If you don't have a watch, say, tomorrow I want to get up at six o'clock. And you sleep on it. When you wake up and see on your watch, it will be six o'clock. Who woke you up? So, this is a branch of study, scientifically, the subconsciousness. I had another example. Before some years, I was in a village. There was a man who never felt ill. He was about 28 years of age, a farmer. Strong, he would kill himself. Knock on the wall, it would come down. He was going out just to sow wheat in his field. Two doctors, a pathologist and a psychiatrist, started thinking. They said, no, we shall just experiment with that fellow. I said, no, don't do these stupid things. They said, no, we don't care. So, they saw him coming out of his house in the morning, going to the fields, whistling and singing. Giovanni came to him and said, hallo, Gianni. He said, hallo. Hallo, doctor. He said, early in the morning. He said, I'm making a walk here. But come here, come here. Let me see in your eyes. What do you see in my eyes? Take out from your mouth your tongue to see it. Oh, yes. You are ill. He said, doctor, what are you saying? I am as strong as a bull. What do you say? No, no. These are the symptoms I see in your eyes. Now, let me see here. Your glands here. You suffer from that illness, an inexistent illness he invented in his mind. Now, sooner or later, you will feel shivering. And I suggest that you go to bed from now. It's only two or three days and you'll be all right. But this is just something that the fellow didn't listen to them. He said, come on, doctor. Why have so much work? I have three children to feed. I'll go just to do my work. He said, now, when you feel this shivering, please go to bed. He said, doctor, what do you say? That's what I tell you. He went away. After half an hour, the psychiatrist came on his way, because I knew everything. He went out to the field. He saw Yanis. Hello, Yanis. Hello, doctor. Come here. Let me see your eyes. What the hell you see in my eyes? No. He repeated those nonsense about that illness. Let me see you have fever. Doctor, it is summer. Of course, I am sweating. That isn't fever. No, no, no. Wait. Take out your tongue. You start shivering. He said, it is already that thing. You should be in bed for two or three days. Then the fellow said to the doctor, come on. Go, doctor. I am busy. I have work. Though he didn't accept it, yet subconsciously it was working. The suggestion became subconscious auto-suggestion. And he started shivering. When I saw him coming back, going home, he was making like that. I said, what is Yanis with you? I told him, don't be fooled. It is a trick. They are playing to you. He said, no, it is not. I am ill. He went to bed. In two hours, he had high fever, 40. I told him, now go. You are criminals. Go and tell him the truth. He said, yes, we will go there. They went there. I told him, Yanis, it was just a trick. No, doctor, I am ill. Since I have fever, how is it? Yes, it is that illness. What did you tell me it was that? Of course, in three days, as they told him, he got up and he was strong. What do I mean to say with that? Don't play with your subconsciousness. Don't put ideas in your head. By seeing others suffering, don't think that I will have that, because you will get it. And you deserve to get it, if you just play these tricks with your subconsciousness. So, when you want to get rid of something, take it out of your mind and suggest to yourself the time you will feel just sleepy. No, that will go. And it will go. Now, this branch of study of the subconscious mind should occupy the mind of all psychiatrists, just like you, and all other psychotherapists, because they use certain words now without knowing how they work and the meaning of it. Now, we'll make a meditation. Relax completely. Relax your material body completely. Start from the feet, toes, legs, the navel, the chest, the head. Feel that you are relaxed. Say now with your mind. The Holy Archangels working in your body will hear you. This body of mine, created by the Holy Providence, by the Lord, granted to me to live in it, supervised to have a perfect health, with the Archangels in it, insisting to cure every ill according to my behavior. Yes, I'll call it mine. I will live in it in the proper way, feed it well in the proper way, and love it, thanking them. I will not put in my mind negative thoughts of ill health. I'll take out of my mind every negative thought, every kind of complaint, enmity, hatred against people, which is the cause, subconscious cause, causing illnesses to my material body and to my psychical body. I will control by observation and right thinking all kinds of temptations, coming as desires, ill, uncontrolled emotions, or greediness for something. I know the Locus is in me, in my spirit soul, master of my body, of my bodies, three bodies. So are the Holy Archangels. And ask the Absolute Infinite Beingness through your spirit, ego, self, and lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil, for Thine is the Kingdom and the Power and the Glory. Your body belongs to the Absolute Infinite Beingness, and you live in it. You call it right. I call it Grace, by Divine Grace. Ask Him to continue keeping it in good health. Never leave in your mind, which is your subconscious mind, any negative idea of illness or something you want to get rid of it, because this creates elementals, negative elementals, which are very harmful. Now, feel you are in the heart. See that your heart is a sun with bright light. You feel that your chest is pure, and your heart is a sun radiating golden light. Bring in front of you a person or persons you have differences with them, and maybe you despise them, not to hate them, or feeling you wouldn't like to meet them. Bring them now before you. Don't see them angry. Don't see them displeased. See them smiling, happy. See them, the rays of the sun of your heart is caressing their faces, and tell them you love them. That doesn't mean you need to communicate with them in other way on the material plane. If differences exist and will exist, it is a material. Now you love them on a higher plane. Flood them, light them with the light of the sun of your heart, and see them happy. You can do that to your beloved ones if you like. See beloved ones also in this light of your heart. Then and only then you can call them yours, not with the egoistic feeling. And in this way you are becoming theirs, again not with the materialistic human evil meaning. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you. It is his love, our love, and towards all other human beings. Enough. So, study this thing of the subconscious mind. Don't put suggestions, don't get suggestions from others. Make them suggestions to you which may injure you or your body. Take out from your mind all negative thinking. You don't need it. And again, hatred against other people, when it is in us, in our heart, it is the worst poison for our bodies, causing illnesses. So, a fellow who hates, definitely has the self- punishment in him all the time. And really, feel pity for those hating you, because they are injuring themselves, not you. If you know how to protect yourself from the elementals, they project to you. Feel pity for them. How to protect yourself from the elementals cast on you? By loving them. If you love these people, that elemental will come on you, be dis-energized and go up. If you hate them, even if you are stronger and you attack the elemental, it will come on them with greater force and make them worse, more angry against you, more hateful. So, we extinguish the fire with water. We extinguish hatred and all negative feelings with love. Next week, how many of you will be here still? Daskalos - Reincarnation and the Cosmic Consciousness 1 - Jun-16-1992 Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightyness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. What is always in eternity is the absolute, infinite beingness God. The characteristics of God are the self-sufficiency. Another of the characteristics of God is the eternal life. And another characteristic of this infinite beingness is the absolute infinite selfhood, the self-awareness, in an absolute incomprehensible to the human intelligence state. Now, other expressions of this absolute beingness in itself are its total wisdom, its all- mightiness, and a divine plan. Because in the absolute infinite selfhood, the absolute infinite beingness, there is also the real pleasure of manifesting itself in itself, being life, to express itself as phenomena of life. The other nature of this absolute beingness is the incomprehensible to the human intelligence house boundless space. What is this boundless space? It's not easy to understand. We said yesterday that the real pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness is to manifest itself in itself. Because in the absolute infinite beingness are billions and billions beyond number beings. That's itself. We don't have two Gods. It's only one God, the absolute infinite beingness, in its multiplicity. Multiplicity doesn't mean that he multiplies. New beings are created. No. All those divine beings are in the absolute infinite beingness. They are immortal, let us call them Gods. There is no other way to express them. These are those who are just presenting themselves as the archangelic orders. Now, all these beings, divine beings, and of course that being, spirit, ego, who is the human being, in the absolute infinite beingness are all similar, alike, but entering in the real pleasure of the infinite beingness and of the infinite beings, because as the infinite beingness vibrates its real pleasure and its plan, immediately those vibrations are in all these beings, in the absolute beingness, being in atonement, in oneness with the absolute infinite being. So, vibrating the absolute infinite beingness on its real pleasure from itself and from all the other beings is manifested, what we call, the mind. The mind emanates from the absolute infinite beingness and from the immortal beings in itself. Self-conscious beings. So, we have now the mind. We shall see the mind from another point of view today. The mind, as super substance, formless, has in it that real pleasure of the infinite beingness and of the infinite beings, in it, for manifestation. So, this is the qualities of the mind. Where is the mind now? Everywhere in the boundless space, chaos. There is not any place where there is not life, the everlasting eternal life, the life, light, and the mind. Is the mind producing light? But the absolute infinite beingness is light. The selfhood is light, from another point of view. So, now, in the chaos, in space, there is ample light, the unextinguishable light, yet, darkness to the human eyes. So, darkness, in reality, does not exist. What we call darkness is the inability of the cross-material human eyes just to vibrate to that rate of vibration of the super light. Now, the orthodox science says, certain frequencies of the ether are giving us the light. Higher, lower, the human eyes cannot just understand light. So, darkness, looking during the night, in space, in the sky, we see darkness. He said, it's ample light. It is the unextinguishable super light. Because those who can develop super senses, they don't rely only on the five senses of the cross-material body. They can see that light and enjoy that light. And the light of the sun is nothing in comparison to the unextinguishable light, mind light. Because everything is in the mind and produced by the mind. So, another quality of the mind, which is everywhere, is to record in it everything. And that we call it the cosmic super consciousness or the cosmic memory. And one raising his consciousness to higher levels and higher levels of this super consciousness can conduct this cosmic consciousness or cosmic memory. So, one of the qualities of the mind is to record in it everything which takes place in this mind. The creation of the galaxies. Everything happening on a galaxy, on all the billions and billions of galaxies in the chaos space, there is the mind. Always. So, everything happening, what are the galaxies? How were the galaxies created in the chaos space? Everything is mind. The mind. Now, the holy archangels, now expressing and manifesting the real pleasure of the infinite beingness and their own pleasure, create from this mind the elements. Only five such kinds of elements can the human intelligence understand and study. A super elemental state, which you cannot give it a name. From it comes the element of fire, of water, of air, and the cross material things all around us. Everything is mind. Matter is mind solid. So, expressing the real pleasure of the infinite beingness and their own real pleasure, they create the holy archangels. These five elements known to us, by these five elements they create the universes, the seven heavens, as we can understand according to the church. The seven heavens. Do we have this solid matter in all these heavens? In all the worlds of the various dimensions? Yes, but in a different rate of vibrations and frequencies. Yes, we have. And the five elements, I am speaking my own experiences. You cannot find these things written in books. Yet, I don't know if someone sometime will dare present this great truth in books. So, in co-space, the mysterious way, the holy archangels of the elements, cooperating of the ether, of fire, of water, and even matter, they start creating a galaxy. When? There is no time. Always. Even now! Who knows? In the whole eternity. And one of the natures and characteristics of the infinite beingness is motion, moving, vibrating, expressing its divine real pleasure. So that mass of the mind starts moving around itself, producing the element of fire. And in fire are all the other elements, unmanifested yet. Now, moving around its axis, as a sphere of light, it casts around it other ports of light. How many? Thousands. And they, these ports of light, the suns in a galaxy, repeating the same thing, rotating around their axis, are producing the planets. Theory wars. At the beginning, we are on the element of fire yet. What is in the divine wisdom? According to the volume of this ball of light, it gets its place around the mother source, rotating around it. So we have the rotation around an axis, and the rotation of these ports of light around the mother source. Just think, according to the volume and to the size, they get the right distance from the center, rotating. Is that not total wisdom? Do they collide? No. So, the smaller ports of light, fire, those destined to be the planets, the course of years, no, of thousands of centuries, they start to create a crust around their surface, cracking all the time, emitting lava, again cooling down, and then cracking for how many centuries? Hundreds of centuries. Till they make a solid crust. Why? This is the divine plan. So that phenomena of life to appear on that surface, on that planet, is our planet, the Earth, which is just one of the smallest planets, the only one favored by the absolute infinite beingness and by life to produce the phenomena of life. We call it human being. And all the billions and billions of living phenomena of life around us? No. Life is everywhere. The everlasting life is everywhere. But is the phenomena of life we call human the most important? No. So, life is everywhere. And those who can just raise their self-superconsciousness can conduct not only those planets, but also what I call the cosmic memory, or the cosmic consciousness, can see what is happening and what is taking place on the other planets. I'm telling you, all the planets of our solar system are themselves alive and they have on them phenomena of life. Now, we say the mind. Mind is everywhere. Everything that takes place is recorded in the mind. Always and everything. Even the birth and the life of a worm, lots of worms, is recorded there. Of an ant, of a tree, of a plant, of a flower, of every phenomenon of life in the animal kingdom, you can contact and see it. And of the human being, is there. Now, in the eternal now, in the eternal present, there is not past, present and future. That is only the comprehension of the human intelligence. If you can contact, any period, live in it. Live again, maybe, in it. One of your past incarnations, which is there a living elemental. What is past, present and future? You are in the eternal now. Now, I'm afraid it is very difficult for you to understand these things at present, before just raising up your consciousness to the self- superconsciousness and be able to expand beyond time and place. But this is what everybody, someday, will be able to do. Because we are gods. We are not animals, like the other animal life all around us. But we have just to develop this time and place little self, the shadow of our real self. Just to assimilate it to our inner beingness, so that to reach what you call the right self- realization. Then you will understand what is selfhood, what is the logoic selfhood, what is the selfhood of the spirit, of the soul. Then you will understand what is really life. Because life, or God, or the absolute infinite beingness, or the absolute selfhood, is not just a very small phenomenon. You can just go beyond the phenomena to see the cause and the principle behind all those phenomena. Now, having that in mind, you must know that all events are recorded. All in this pan- universal mind. What about thoughts, feelings, instincts of the animal life all around us? Everything is recorded. Even a single thought. Are our mistakes recorded there? Definitely. Everything is recorded there. And our behavior? Our way of life? Of course it's there. Everything is there recorded. So we must classify now this cosmic consciousness, there is no other better word of cosmic memory, into the events happening as the creation of a galaxy, of a planet, of a solar system, and what is happening on them by the phenomena of life. Which are these phenomena of life? Everything. The rocks are living, the crystals are living, the metals are living, the trees are living, the vegetable kingdom is alive, the animal kingdom is alive. Every phenomenon of life, no matter in which kingdom of the creation belongs, is recording on the mind the event and the reactions in it. The instincts of the animals are recorded there. The desires and the emotions of every human being. And the actions, the thoughts, are recorded there. So, in every incarnation of a human being, after completing that incarnation, and that incarnation doesn't mean only the material body, because it's only a part of the circle of possibilities of the human being. The life on the material world continues its life in the psychical world, in the nautical world, and back again. Until new reincarnation, everything is recorded there. And for every complete incarnation in the cosmic consciousness, everything is that, what we call elemental, it's an elemental, living. Now, is your past incarnation now alive? Past incarnations, maybe hundreds are there, elementals of your passing through what you call life. They are. Yes. And they have their own life. Because elementals are living. There is nothing dying in the mind. So, if you can contact the elementals of your past incarnation, in the cosmic consciousness of the planet, you'll meet yourself there, as you were there, alive. So, all those experiences of yours, the sum total of the elementals you have created or revitalized from group elementals, completing an elemental of personality, individuality, is living now. All your incarnations, hundreds maybe, are now living and they are alive in the cosmic consciousness. Which is where? Everywhere. Because it is beyond the sense of place. They are in the world of a different dimension now, because the world of the three dimensions and four dimensions are limiting the sense of time, which is eternal now, eternal present. I'm afraid we are in very, very deep waters now. And you are not all so expert divers. So, one has to develop his or her super-consciousness to be able to contact this cosmic memory or cosmic consciousness of our planet. So, we have the cosmic consciousness of our planet. There is the cosmic consciousness of our solar system. There is the cosmic consciousness of our galaxy. There is the cosmic consciousness of all the galaxies. Because all are floating in the super-substance of the mind. And the mind is recording in it everything. That's just the quality of the mind. Super- substance. Now, something else. If you meet an incarnation of yours, now you are a different person and self as individuality. You will see many, many things. You find out they are wrong. Can you correct anything? No. What is recorded is recorded. I'll give you an example. You have a great singer. He's recording an opera. And sometimes as he's singing with his orchestra, he's making a mistake. It's recorded already. You have recorded it. You put it again and you see it the way he was singing. Now, hearing it, he says, no, no, no. That was a mistake. It was not that. He cannot correct that. He can create something else to make the correction. That is already there. So in every incarnation of us, we can add nothing and take out nothing. It's there. With the difference, recording just a tape, that thing is not a living thing. Well, our elementals are made of the living mind. They are alive. So, how do we believe, knowing why we believe like that, on what we call reincarnation? Of course, I do believe in that, but not in the way certain people are believing. And as I said in a lesson, the second page of a book is not the third, not the fourth, not the fifth. Each page is different. Yes, the same matter in it, but a different page. So, in every incarnation, we are a different personality, but the same soul-self. Now, why don't you remember past incarnations? Because you are one of these pages. You are not the book to be able to say, I was that. You can't say that with your name and your personality's consciousness today, because you are a different person now. So, the one who has the right to say that is your soul-selfhood, who was incarnated at the time, and not you as a person. So nobody can say, I was that, who I am. When you raise your self-consciousness now to those levels of your soul-selfhood, you remember. And you have the right to remember, because that's you. But you are now a different individuality from the past personalities. The spirit is the same, but not the personality. So, only reaching those levels, you can say, I have been that, and that, and that person. Not before, because every time you come, you dress yourself with matter. Yes, of course, there is something common. You carry with you all experiences, tendencies, a predisposition. That's true. Some of the elementals, that means the so-called subconsciousness, but not more than that. And these are qualities, and not yourself. So, you need deep introspection, reaching to that stage of self-superconsciousness, to understand the reality behind the phenomena of life, and our own life. So, what I want to say is that everything is recorded on the mind, which is everywhere, and stored up in the cosmic, let us call it super-consciousness. No corrections, no alterations can be made. Are we responsible? Not more than naughty children in their classes and in the yard of their school. Of course, from the human point of view, we consider the faults of others as crimes, and our faults, of course, not so serious. But these are human weaknesses. From the point of view of the divine selfhood, and from our own just expressions as a soul, the personalities' mistakes are not just to make us feel ashamed. They are mistakes which do not carry a punishment, definitely, or responsibility beyond the lesson to be taken. Don't think that in passing over, that means casting out the material body, you will find yourself before a strict judge. The judgment day is a blasphemy against God. There is no such a thing. There is no such a thing as judgment and conviction, because God is most merciful. So we must free ourselves from just ideas which are not right. We are sons of God as soul and spirit, egos. Casting a shadow in time and place, we become just as a personality, with its mistakes, and to take lessons, lessons, thoughtful, being divine in nature, but human in expression, we have to free ourselves from the divine matter and assimilate it to our real self. All these truths, you will find them in the Gospel, taught by Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. The God who had humanized and incarnated directly, and the only one to be called a God-man. We are all men-gods. That's the only one, the God-man, who came directly, without reaching higher states of self-consciousness through the incarnations. So this problem of reincarnation is very complex, and we should not just take it lightly and believe stupidities. Now, today, we, human beings, having a material body, a name given us, of a male or a female person, living in a certain place, who has chosen that we will be born and live in the place we are now living? Destiny. The law of destiny. So that we now, as an individuality, we said we had many, many, many personalities, but we have an individuality now, what we call the permanent personality in our teachings. We have in that permanent personality, or individuality, from past incarnations, because the heart of this individuality is our spirit, soul, ego, who was incarnated at the time. We have in it, and the lessons, and the predispositions, and the knowledge, subconsciously though, to start living with it. So what's our duty in coming into an age able to use the mind and reason? What is happening now to all people all around us? They get their predispositions, just following them, instead of just thinking of them, can I correct things? Can I change things? Why are coming in life certain persons, talented, as we might call them, and others are not? Why they come in this life, certain children, with the tendency of lying, of stealing, this predisposition? Because they are in their subconsciousness, in their permanent personality. They are here just for corrections, not of the past, not of the incarnation elemental, but to use it now, for our new incarnation. So, a reasonable person, man or a woman, should just start meditating and thinking on what is going on in his present day personality, desires, tendencies, and all that, and find the cause of it. And then, now, as a reasonable being, instead of just giving itself up to these tendencies, leading sometimes to destruction, start using the mind. The mercy of God gave to every human being the right to use the mind, to study this case concerning him or her, and just make the life he should make, instead of being a slave of circumstances, of desires, of emotions, of weaknesses. This is the duty of every human living being, man or a woman. Is that what happens now, around us, in the world? No. The human beings today, instead of using the mind, they are slaves of desires, of emotions, and of weaknesses, which are leading them to despair, to pain, to troubles. This is what creates, in our communities, confusion and pain. Now, is in the life we are living a punishment? No. We are just where we place ourselves, with the way of feeling and thinking. And you can get out of it any moment we decide to, and we want to. We are free to do it. We are given the mind, we have to reason and change things. It's only a decision to take. But, many times I hear this, my feelings are so strong, sir. My desires are so strong, sir. Even today, I had a case. A fellow calling himself an honest man, with two children, with a wife faithful to him, loving him, got in love with one who was giving herself too many. He really ruined him, selling things, many, many things. Happily, he came to senses, what can I do now, sir? Get back home, to your wife, to your children. Try to show them that you have changed now. He said, but there is still a feeling in me for that woman who is now with somebody else, before meeting you. Now, come to senses. What will be the end of this story, if you again make friends with that woman? But I want them both. Really, I wanted just to give him a slap. What does it mean, you want them both? But the feeling, sir, that you are mistaken and an illusion. Just now, make the comparison, and see what is good for you to do. Yes, my mind says that, no, I tell you what your mind should tell to you, and that would be the voice of God. I gave you a wife, a faithful, as you say, wife. I gave you two children. You are neglecting them now. You have to look after them. What about your responsibilities to God? But is there such a thing as God, sir? Nobody taught him anything about God. He was baptized, Greek Orthodox. Of course, sometimes, out of habit, he is putting the sign of the cross, but he doesn't go to church now. In church, who are going to church now? The church is not God. Daskalos - Reincarnation and the Cosmic Consciousness 2 - Jun-16-1992 So, I taught him, you should believe in God. We're looking at him. Not in the God of the priests. He liked that. Because he was not in good time with the priests. Which God? Which God? Life. You are God. You're looking at me. You are living. Yes. You have been married. Yes. God gave you two children. Do you think that these children born to you as a son and a daughter are really yours? Did you know what you are doing by making love? He started just reasoning. He says, that's the cause. In nature. Now, you tell God nature. Now, let us study what you say in nature as the total wisdom, as life. And as a purpose behind it. Where shall I find God? In your heart you have made so dirty. He started crying. In my heart I made it so dirty. Yes. By loving? Not by loving. You have the right to love. But you should love every woman you felt love for her in your age as your sister. And in being more old as your mother. Why love her? In a way you did. That belongs to your wife. You brought children in the world. Really, you make me feel afraid. That's good. Because now you realize the reality. You know what it is. Shall I go to a church? No need. But you should go to a church. A church? Which church? When you make your heart your church you will enter there and there you will just worship your God. Your heart is your church. In reality. Clean it. Love. Use reason. Thank God for giving you these two children. And start to understand your responsibilities towards this great gift of God. That was an honor. Made to you. To have those children. I said, don't say anything more. I think I understand. I started laughing. Who taught you that? I said, God in you. He is waking you up. Now go to your wife. To your children. To your work. Don't look behind. Don't start repenting. Oh, I have spent so many things. So much. Nearly my whole property for all that and that. No. Don't start thinking like that. Now make corrections. I think I understood. Can I tell you are less yourself? Of course you can. But first purify a little bit your heart. Start to use your mind. And come. You are welcome. Now, what is the duty of every human being now? First, to make a sincere self-analysis. And by self I mean the present-day personality. Put down things. And through introspection, check what is going on in the present-day personality. Which means entering worldly in your so-called subconsciousness. No need just to be afraid of doing so. Don't try just to accuse yourself now. That's a stupid way. Of approaching things. You are starting that behavior of yours as a third person. Reasoning now. Not with masochistic tendencies. Because that's a kind of hypocrisy of the egoism of the personality. You have to get rid of it. So, now you are reasoning. Should we not repent? This is just a stupid thing. What's repentance? Knowing the truth and changing things. Repent. What is done is done. What's past is past. Why should we look behind? Let us look forward. Making corrections means now making corrections for what we call the future. Why should we return to the past and start masochistic now? Repentance and all that. Some of the church people just suggest that. And they find it stupid. Christ never spoke about these things. He said clearly, Know the truth and the truth will set you free from illusions and from everything. So, what is the duty of every human being now? Learn the truth concerning the mind. The nature of the mind. Learn the truth concerning his behavior or her behavior in creating or revitalizing elementals. That's a great truth. Look now into the subconsciousness to find out what is there. Check predispositions. Why? Put a burning fire there. You have to give an answer to yourself. Your guardian angel will help you in reaching the right conclusions. Then, you realize that now it's given me the right to use the mind in the right way. And by doing it, you come to the realization who you are. I'm using the mind. And using the mind, I. First you reach your real I-ness now. And your I-ness is not the egoism. With the weaknesses and with the wrong behavior. I, now, can study my emotions and my desires. See what is wrong and what is not wrong. The egoism will present itself. Yes, but that pleased me. Catch him. No. Now I'm studying and I know the truth. Now I know you. You are not myself. Then start using the mind. And which is the real gain? You know who you are. You are an I-ness not yet knowing what is your I-ness or your selfhood. Who can now use my body, my material body, in the way I am choosing? What I call the right way. Controlling the body. I can now check my desires, my emotions. Know everything about them. Know the consequences that will come following certain desires or emotions. And by sorting, now I find who I am. I'm a strong being who can get decisions, stick to decisions, and stop being influenced by my personality's egoism, which is not myself. I call that introspection or looking within or making what I will say sincere psychoanalysis. And you have to do it for yourself, not the others. But with sincerity and the right thinking. What you'll find out? That in many cases there will be a serious clash between your heart and your mind. What you do now? Now there is a serious fighting to calm down things. Said to the card. No more making mistakes. There must be an end to that thing. Now again the egoism of the personality will present itself, but I like that. Stop it. Now, using the mind, we have to control our heart. Should we be cruel to our heart? No, your heart will be the first to thank you, setting it free from mistakes and from weaknesses. And everybody has just to clean the heart. Because we'll not see God with our human material eyes. We'll not even see God with our mind, but with our heart. And in the Beatitudes, the Church of Emmanuel Christ, the Godman who came down on earth to show us the way and teach us who we are, what we are, how we should live, what is life, what are we, what is God said. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. It is with the heart one will see God. Because God is love. Impersonal love. Pure love. Love for all and to all. But love doesn't mean immorality. We must have that in our mind. Love doesn't mean making love. This is what one should know and understand. To put things in their right place. Love. Here's Miracelo. Shall I hate that woman? No! You must love her, continue loving her. But love is not what you thought is love. Just that feeling of your mind, possessiveness, this and that, and all those stupid behaviors. Love her. And if she will be in need of you sometime, to come to you, treat her as your sister. But not more than that. So we have to transmit love to its right expression. By using the mind to control and the heart and our whole behavior. Shall we love ourselves? Of course we should. But loving ourselves means cleaning them, purifying them. This is love to ourselves. And not surrendering to weaknesses and to faults. Of course we have to love ourselves. In transmuting it someday to our real self. Which is in it. Do we have two selves now? No. We have one self as a line with two points. We don't have two lines, we have one line. We have one self with two points now. It's material, in time and place, in a human body. The expression, as I said before, the shadow of yourself. But behind it is the light. And you are the light, not the shadow. So we have just, with what I call self-analysis, analyzing our present day, time and place self. Finding it, our real self. Which is the life in it. So that the personality to be living, to live the material world, must have the parts of life to live. Which is our self, our real self. And that self we have to find and feel we are that. The parts of life. Life and not the weaknesses in life. I think you understood what I really mean. By self- analysis. Analyzing the present day personality to reach the reality behind it. Which is our real self. And finding your self, there will be happiness. Don't expect to find happiness as a personality. By things which are changing every moment. And are not stable. You will find happiness and satisfaction in realizing that you are eternal, immortal God. With a name? Yes. But not a name you have as a man or as a woman. That is passing. You had many, many, many such names in your past incarnations. But yet, in every incarnation you had your name. Without noticing it. Adding to your name, just another name. Deceiving you that you were that. Name of a man or a woman. I am church. Take a church. What remains? I am. I am existing. Until you take that out. I. And then you are the immortal God. Your life. So, you are saying what you are without realizing what you are saying. So, what's our name? Common name to all and for all. I. The I-ness. The self- superconsciousness. Now, make a meditation. What is self? What is that entity with its awareness of who or what it is? Now, it will be difficult at the beginning. But rely on the help of your holy guardian archangel who is within you. Just ready to see you. That you want to know and will come to your help. A fellow told me. Yes, sir, really. I would be very happy if I come in contact with my guardian archangel, my guardian angel. I said, you are every moment in contact with your guardian archangel. You are talking to him and he is talking to you and you don't understand you do it. You think you are talking to yourself. Yes, we are in contact with our guardian archangel. And sometimes, when we overdo it, we get some slaps. As the stings of consciousness. And we should better listen to what this holy archangel within us is telling us. Because it is he who is warning us what is right and what is wrong. So it is not difficult to come in contact with your guardian archangel. Which definitely is not yourself. Your highness is different from your holy archangel who is equified to you. Loving you. And ready to help you. Being in your personality even. But pure. Holy. Divine. This holy archangel of yours will give an example. It is like a mirror. And the mirror is never becoming dirty if you can see dirty things in the mirror. Do you understand what I mean? You put something dirty, something ugly in front of a mirror. You see it there. Reflect that that is not making the mirror dirty. Put another thing and that will be clean. So our guardian archangel in us is that kind of mirror. Reflecting our dirty things. Dirty thoughts. Dirty emotions. Yet itself being clean. And so clean also is your soul ego self. Which is also just like a mirror. So don't be in despair. We are not dirty as soul ego selves. As a present personality. Yes. But there is enough water to wash ourselves. To wash our dirt. Thanks God. He has given us much water to clean our bodies. And he has given us much mind to clean our personality. It is up to us to decide to clean it. By the right thought and thinking. By meditation. Yes of course. But meditation for us now has a very very different meaning from what you think as reading books from the east. The right meditation is the introspection and the self analysis. And we don't have time to waste for other kinds of meditation which lead nowhere. Nowhere. Yes. To the self realization as many claim. But you can reach the self realization by introspection in a safer way. In a better way. So. What's prayer? Should we pray? Of course we should. What's prayer? A right method of meditation. Approaching yourself inwardly. And God who is in you and within you. Definitely. But what's a prayer? Again. Just whispering mechanically and thinking many many other things this time you are just reciting. These are not prayers. We have another method to call it a concentric prayer. Which is concentration and meditation just to know what is in that meditation we are going to do and we are making. And a meditation is a prayer. Prayer where? In which church? In our heart. Everybody should make his or her heart the holy of holies. To retire in it. See that it is clean and purified. And have in it everybody. In it. Because everyone is a son of God. As a spirit, soul, ego, self. Having that in mind we cannot hate anybody. We must love everybody. What about their mistakes? Their behavior? Maybe too hostile for us. Attacking us. Even killing us. These are simply phenomena in time and in certain place. And seeing in all your incarnations you will find such things. And what is the aim behind it? Both sides to learn to love. Seeing I have seen people now nearly adoring me. Who in a past incarnation had killed my material body. Not me. Such people. Remembering past incarnations. I love them. I always loved them. I never have stopped loving them. Because I knew things even in my previous incarnations. So you must have in your mind that. Weaknesses. Hatreds. Enmities. Jealousies. And all that. Are passing shadows. In the course of things. In what you call time. And certain place. What is behind it is the precious lessons to be taken. Which is love. Much love. Impersonal love. Yes. Maybe the best definition of love. You can find it in the epistles of St. Paul to the Corinthians. I read it. It was written in Greek and in the Greek language. Such sweetness in the whole expressions. Just read it. The impersonal love. So this is the lesson everybody has to learn sooner or later. Peacefully. In the right way. Or in the hard way. Of collision. Confusion. And misunderstandings. This is the most serious lesson you have to learn. To love one another. As he had loved us. His love. Yes. Now we'll make a meditation. Relax completely. I said. Our heart. By saying our heart. Do I mean. A handful of matter. In our chest. That's the heart. The material heart. The gross material heart. Do I mean that? Though the heart. Is the only organ. In the material body. For the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. To talk to us. Every part of the heart. Is their voice. Of love to us. To prolong the life of our material body. Which is not our material body. Yet. Through the heart. The material heart. We can hear the voice of the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Archangels. Creating. And. Making. Good. Everything in our body. Which has. To be made good. There are injuries. In the material body. And the material heart. Is that organ. For the circulation. Of the blood. Now we sit from another side. Our material heart is not a real heart. I am. Talking about. Because our heart. Is not in the material body. But it is in our. So called noetical and psychical bodies. Which are in the material body. Is our material heart. Coinciding. With the heart I am speaking. About. Which is the heart. Not of the material body. But of our personality. Yes. It is that heart. I am talking about. Which is a center. Of energy. It is the center. Of our emotions. When you make your meditation. On the so called. Psychical heart. Of course you can concentrate. On the material heart. But being. Outside in the way. Of the material body. Leaving the material body. Sleeping on your bed. You carry with you. That so called. Psychical heart of yours. Your heart. Which. As I said. You are sanctum. The holy of holies. Will worship. God. Life. Everlasting life. So make that. Realization. You can have that heart. But before you must have. A clean. Material heart. Free from enmities. Enemies. Hostility. And weaknesses. Yes. You must have that concentration. On the material heart. But not on that. Organ. In your breast. For the circulation of blood. But you are. Holy of holies. The center of your. Selfhood. Even as a personality. So you have to clean there. All desires. All emotions. Is that place. Our subconscious mind. Our subconsciousness. End that. But not only that. When you concentrate. In that heart. You concentrate. On your. Selfhood. There you make your holy of holies. That's the church. You must not avoid. Going. Entering. Every time you are in need. To enter and worship God. And receive. What I call. The self realization. And life. There. In that heart. You will find your. Selfhood. A God. A self. Who is reconstructing. Your personality. As it is. Every day. In every 24 hours. You. As a personality. Man or a woman. Are entering. In a phenomenal. Not a real. Non beingness. You enter. In a sleep. Without dreams. Even for some minutes. Even if you are living. Partly conscious. Through certain. Moments. Minutes. In that state. Of non beingness. Yet we work. We wake up in the morning. And George is George. Mary is Mary. Who is reconstructing. That personality of yours. That selfhood of yours. Again. Just meditate on this. In every 24. Hours. We have to pass. Once or more times. Through that state. Of non existence. As a personality. And again. That mysterious self of ours. Our selfhood. Is reconstructing. Our personality. With all. Its vices. Mistakes. Desires. Emotions. And thoughts. As it was. Before going to sleep. Even that present. The personality for your selfhood. Is sacred. And that personality of yours. Is supposed to receive. The impressions. And the lessons. So we must have. Must. Think seriously. On this phenomenon. Of the reconstruction. Of your present day personality. By whom. It's that self. Your selfhood. You have to find out. And that is your. Immortal. Everlasting. Spirit. Soul. Self. Which is you. Without knowing it. And for your sake. Reconstructing. Your present. Sinful even personality. To assimilate it. By purifying it. To itself. Just meditate. On this. Selfhood of yours. Your soul. Ego. Now put the question to yourself. Being in my material body. Who am I? What am I? By what right do I live in this material body? I know very little about it. Being entitled to live in it. And call it mine. I repeat. Knowing very little about my material body. An accident. A deep wound. Who is curing it? It will be cured. Definitely. How many wounds until now on your body. Had been cured. Who is curing it? You as a personality. Broken bones. Adjoining. Who is doing that? In your material body. In our material body. The same. The same. Work is done not only. In the gross material body. But in all your bodies. In your psychical body. In your medical body. Which we have. By meditation. To know. And use it. Being it. As our selfhood. Our real self. And use it. Put the question now again. What am I? As a selfhood. Who am I? Am I really George? Or Mary? Or that's a time and certain place. Shadow. Living shadow though. But that living shadow. Is life. Or a phenomenon of life. What's the difference between a phenomenon of life. A human phenomenon of life. And life. The self. The spirit. Ego being. The mortal God. In us. Know. Which we are. Don't take the place. Of the shadow. So not in you. It's you. Put again the question. What am I? Who really am I? And can I develop. Raise up this. Consciousness. Which is. It's expression and not itself. To higher and higher and higher levels. Of self-realization. Unless. I can do that I cannot claim I am God. But we can do it. Because we are God. What are we as. Awareness. Consciousness. What's the difference between consciousness. And self-consciousness. Which we have just to. Develop. In our personality. Don't think. That things are easy. Possible they are. Easy. They are not. Why? Because we make them difficult. Not that they are really. Difficult. But concentrating our personality. Through the five senses. The world around us. On. Matter. We make things difficult. So I have to disentangle ourselves. From our. Interests. In matter. No. Because matter is also good. If it was not good God would not create it. I said disentangle. Not throw things away. Free ourselves. From the enchantment of matter. That makes things difficult. And I think that's what Buddhism is trying to teach. Though not in the perfect way. As Christianity is doing. Who am I? As life principle. As the selfhood. Keeping this material body. I'm leaving it. Alive. Am I the only. Entity. Keeping the material body alive. Personality. Knowledge. Or wisdom. Keeping in good order the material body. Who had created the organs. By concentrating seriously. You will know the truth. You will come in contact. With the intelligences. The holy archangels of the elements. Working in your bodies. As you are slaves. Loving you. And what do we offer them? Nothing. What do they offer us? Everything. They are waiting. They are loving us. What's love now to them? For us. What is our love? Not to them. To the others. Our fellow men. To love. Is holy. To hate. Is devilish. And we should not contaminate. Even our material heart. With devilish. Poison. Which at the end is killing us. Killing us first. Giving to the material body. So many. So many illnesses. Not as a punishment. As the course of things. For which we are responsible. Who are we? Living in the material body. And how do we use that material body? Higher intelligences. Have created and are keeping it in good order. And you hear the voice of Joshua the Christ saying. Ye are gods. And sons of the Almighty. Enough. I suggest that every day you should concentrate and meditate. Or pray. It's the same thing. Just to use the mind. The greatest gift of God to the human beings. To reach the self-realization. And the knowledge. About everything around us. Undervaluing nothing. But not overvaluing anything again. And you will value life. Which is God. Daskalos - The Golden Keys - 1993-06-22 A discourse by Dr. Stylianos Ateslis, known as Daskalos. The identical thing that we now call Christian religion existed among the ancients and has not been lacking of the human race, leading up to the coming of Christ in the flesh, from which moment on, the true religion, which already existed, began to be called Christian. God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God, and God in him. Absolute truth is a brilliant, many-sided diamond. The great light fills this gem, and colors gleam from every side. Mystics, messengers, sages, and teachers of all ages, races, and beliefs have spoken of a different face of this common eternal truth. Monotheistic esoteric Christianity has been unfolding in human consciousness since time immemorial as a clear and concise reflection of the truth. Our system for the research of truth is devoted to the esoteric Christian tradition. Our exploration of the truth and our ever-increasing conscious engagement in absolute beingness's divine plan is achieved through directed study, observation, exercise, prayer, and meditation. Our approach is methodical, safe, and self-evident. We seek to embrace the holy gifts, insights, and revelations bestowed upon us. We aspire to understand and attune ourselves with the divine laws, forms, principles, and causes governing life. We work in love's name, patiently and harmoniously. We value the balanced development and integration of our entire being as we cultivate our emotional, moral, spiritual, and mystical aspects. Dr. Stylianos Attaslis, popularly known as Daskalos, has been teaching esoteric Christianity and healing for over 70 years. In the late 1980s, Daskalos, having lived a deliberately quiet existence, gained worldwide attention resulting from a number of publications describing his work and life. It was not long after that seekers from the world over began arriving in Strovolos, Cyprus, to learn more of what Daskalos was teaching. Daskalos began conducting public lessons in the Stoa to guide the arrivals. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightyness in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We'll make a revision so that you'll understand the lesson better. We said that what is, always has been, and will always be, is God, the absolute, infinite beingness. What is this absolute, infinite beingness? No human intelligence can understand. Not even the archangelic orders. What we know about this absolute, infinite beingness, it is that this is the absolute, infinite selfhood. It knows what it is. It is not just a blind force. Now, in this absolute, infinite beingness, it is self-sufficiency. It is life itself. But what is life? In its absolute state. All you know is that it is everlasting, without beginning, without an end. Now, in this absolute, infinite beingness, it has its plurality. In it are billions and billions and billions of beings. Or similar. Not different from the source. So, in this absolute, infinite beingness, all of them, it is the self-sufficiency. It is the absolute, total wisdom. And the all-mightyness. So, many in the oneness. So, have one God. One God, the Father, the source of everything. In its plurality. As an absolute, infinite beingness, nobody can say what it is. And none of us can say what it is. But in this absolute, infinite beingness, there is also the joy of creation, to manifest oneself. And this will-pleasure of manifestation, it makes the absolute, infinite beingness. This will-pleasure is making the absolute, infinite beingness as the absolute, infinite beingness. So, in the absolute, infinite beingness now, I have the total wisdom. Ready to be manifested. And in the absolute, infinite beingnesses or beings, I have the absolute, we say, all-mightyness. Now, the absolute, infinite beingness now, I call it absolute, infinite beingness, or earth, sati, or logon. So, we don't have a second God now. It's a second manifestation of God. Now, the all-mightiness of the beings in the absolute, infinite beingness now, is the Holy Spirit, not God. So, we have the absolute, infinite beingness in another two states of existence now. So, I have the absolute, infinite beingness. In everlasting life. Nobody can know what it is. And we have now the absolute, infinite beingness as the absolute, infinite beingness, and as the Holy Spirit. Now, I would give it, but for example, we don't have any better. I have a human being, standing on his two feet, has his two hands, and he has a head. The head is absolute, infinite beingness. Doesn't move. It's not in the world of existence. But I see two hearts and two feet. To walk, God is in the head. To walk, God is in the head. To manifest this thought, through the hands and moving through the feet. So, the right hand and the right foot is the Logos. The right hand and the right foot is the Logos. The left hand and the left foot is the Holy Spirit. And now I have the triangle, the Holy Triangle. The church is called the Holy Trinity. The church is called the Holy Trinity. One God, the Father. When Joshua, the Christ, was feeling himself as the Father, he said, I am the Father, I am one. He said, I am the Father, I am one. Of course, the head and the hands are one. So, the Holy Spirit now. Now, what it is? He said, the all-mightiness of the total wisdom. He said, the all-mightiness of the total wisdom. In their divine, as we call it, state. In their divine, as we call it, state. They are one. They are one. But in their manifestation, I have two expressions. But in their manifestation, I have two expressions. What I call from the Logos, self- consciousness. What I call from the Logos, self-consciousness. From the other side, the Holy Spirit, I have the consciousness, super-consciousness, not self-consciousness. And on the other side, the Holy Spirit, I have the Holy Spirit, which expresses itself self-consciously. Which expresses itself self-consciously. That is the Logos. So, I have now two different states. And I can see them in a human being. So, a human being is the Trinity also. is the Trinity also. Our real self-ego is the spirit-self. It is the self-consciousness expressed as soul now, as the Logos. Our self-consciousness. But we have also in us the consciousness, the impersonal consciousness. Not self-bewusstsein. Because now I see people living sub-consciously, unconsciously, but not self-consciously. living sub-consciously, unconsciously, but not self-bewusstsein. So, as self-conscious beings, souls, we are Logos. In the all-mightiness of creation, our bodies, by the Holy Archangels, we are holy spiritually. Besenheit. So, what is in the absolute infinite beingness and the Holy Spirit? We are. Now, in the Old Testament, we read what the Father said to the Holy Archangels in Him. Said means vibrated. The total wisdom. Wisdom. Let us create man as our image and according to our likeness. Not different. Now we have man manifested as soul-ego. Logos. Self-consciousness. And we are also living in bodies and these bodies have their own sub-consciousness and self-consciousness. Because they are holy spiritually. So, we have the macrocosm and the microcosm. So, in our system, the seekers of the truth, is just by studying and knowing the truth about our existence. And our beingness. Our beingness is everlasting, eternal. Our spirit-ego-soul. But our human personality on earth and in the psychological and noetic worlds is the creation. So, we are doubled. The divine and ever-existing spirit-soul-ego and our personality with its bodies. So, we have the bodies having the human form. But the bodies are built on the human form. By the holy archangelic orders. From where they get the human form? To work on it. From our spirit-body. So, our spirit-body-soul has already the human form. I call it in the light. So, our human form is not only in the clay and made from clay. It's also light. All the colors of the light. And these various colors of the light are giving us the quality of our emotions and our thoughts. So, we have to study all that. Study. How? By using the mind. Now, what is the mind? Und was ist mind-geist? It is what one should clearly understand. We said, mind is everywhere. As supersubstance. Formless. Not having any form. But it is. Now, it will exist now as substance. As ethereal stuff. And as earth-body. Und unsere ton-erdigen krper. So, the stones, the rocks, matter is solid mind. In certain vibrations. Now, we say, we know on the material plane what is solid. Just a piece of stone. It is solid. How do you understand it is solid? By getting it and touching it. With what? With your hand. Which is also solid. So you understand what is solid by touching it with something vibrating to the same vibrations of what you call solid. Now, we enter in the holy mathematics. Und jetzt treten wir in die heilige Mathematik ein. Of a Greco-Egyptian philosopher. Called Baalaton. Plato. Now, the correspondences of the numbers. Und nun die Zusammenhnge der Zahlen. I am not going to reveal much. But just something relative. Suppose, what we have on our material plane vibrates from one to ten. What is one? It is very solid matter. What is two? It is still matter but not so hard. What is three? Still something material but a little more soft. Es ist immer noch Materie aber weicher. What is four? It is water. Und vier ist Wasser. But I have water as ice. Wir haben aber Wasser auch als Eis. As water. As clouds. Als Wolken. As damp. Das sind drei Stufen von Wasser. Then I have different vibrations which I can find on everything and especially in the air. I call them fire and ether. I will not separate now. Das ist ten. Das ist die materielle Erde. But now, mind vibrating, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, corresponding to one, two, three, is the psychical world. And as you have our material body vibrating from one to ten, matter, liquid, ether, fire, I have my psychical body vibrating also. From ten to twenty. So what is very hard in the material world? Sehr fest in der materiellen Welt ist What? Eins. Eleven I have it in the psychical plane as choice. So as our human material body vibrates in this rate, so our psychical body vibrates accordingly. And from twenty to thirty is the noetical body. So I have the same correspondences. One, eleven, twenty-one, thirty-one. Und wir finden wiederum die selben nummen von einundzwanzig, zweihundzwanzig, bis dreiig. Two, twelve, twenty-two, thirty-three. All these are frequencies of the mind. But what exists even our bodies is mind. In its various frequencies of vibration. Now, this is personal experience. Finding myself in my noetical body. Being in the noetical body counterpart of the planet. In the noetical counterpart of our planet. More light. Better everything than the material world. Knowing to lower the vibrations to the relative state. You can find yourself in the psychical plane of the planet. Dann kann er sich wiederum auf der psychischen Ebene dieses Planeten befinden. That's wrong. Thirty to forty, or twenty to thirty, or lower from eleven to twenty. Lowering your vibrations. Below, from one to ten. Von eins bis zehn. That means you can materialize your body with mind matter. Changing the vibrations of the material body, which is from one to ten. Changing the frequency of the vibrations. Between eleven to twenty. To dematerialize the material body. You find yourself in your psychical body. Having the relationship of the numbers of vibration, it is what is solid, liquid, gaseous and so on. In the various worlds. Just changing your vibrations from the one world to the other world. You find in the various worlds what we call solid, liquid, ethereal and so on. So, how do you have the so called four elements? I have the four elements in all the realms. That's not only the four elements I have. The holy number is not ten, it is seven. I have another three kinds of vibrations. In all the worlds. I will not reveal the other three. I am not allowed. And knowing the seven states of the mind in all the worlds, materialization or dematerialization is a toy in your hands. Now, most of you are putting your mind how can we reach to that point. By certain kind of study. By certain kind of meditation. Because there are many ways that slowly, slowly you will reach. But this needs the work of many centuries. And an incarnation for me is a day at school. That's it. What is the real gain out of it? Getting powers? Not of course. But what is the real gain of it? You are developing your personality consciousness. To your soul individuality self-consciousness. Then to your soul self-consciousness. Till you reach your real nature the spirit. You reach what I call self-realization. I put it more practically. Laskalos will explain it more practically. From instinctive personality and subconscious personality to become conscious now personality individuality. You are expressing now your soul ego self-good. Then you understand what is self-consciousness. Continuing you are becoming one self- super-consciousness. Reaching the self-realization. Reaching the self-realization. When you ask who are you? I am that I am. When the Israelites have us just as in Christ, who are you? When the Israelites have us just as in Christ, who are you? He said I am that I am. My identity. And when they continued to write to him He said I am Allah. I am God. Benny Allah. God. Son of God. This is self-realization. Theoretically that is very nice. More practical. This is the system of research of truth we are teaching. Which means after learning what is the mind. Supersubstance formless. Can we see it now as mind thought? Definitely the mind is not this little clay in our skull. What is the relationship between now mind and thought? Now the mind for example again is hydrogen. What is now the thought? Pieces of ice. So, it is water. It is water. I can have it in any form. Thoughts I can have them in any form. And thoughts the mind they are made of the mind. Hydrogen is in them. But they are not only the hydrogen. Hydrogen is in them. But it is not only hydrogen. It is cold. Making it ice. So, I have its nature and its existence. Very poor example but I can give you an idea what is the mind. It is a very poor example but I can give you an idea what is the mind. So, I repeat it. The mind is not a handful of earth in the skull. We call it the brain. As a battery is not electricity. Because a battery may be charged or discharged. Electricity is everywhere. So, we have to study the state and the nature of the mind in all its vibrations and frequencies. And so we have to study the nature of all things in the different frequencies of the vibrations. It needs much study. So, what are we in relation to the mind? Are we the mind? No, we are using the mind. We are not the thought. We are not the emotions. We are not the bodies and our material bodies. So, in our course of studies we must study to control the material body. Study everything possible about the material body in the work of the Archangels. Study our etheric double. Control it. Use it. Study our emotional body which all the time is torturing us. And control desires and emotions. Have to control them and know them. Then we know that we are not our emotions. Our emotions is our expression. Now a more difficult thing to know. Are we our thoughts? No. And we make the mistake to make the mind slave of the emotions. And slaving the super substance of the mind formulating into elementals. A mixture of emotions and desires and thoughts behind them to serve them. So we have to study how we create the elementals composing our personality. So we find out that we are not the bodies. And come now to realize that we have a kind of time and place self. Our personality which again doubles. The heart of it, the life of it is the soul. And its expressions are the elementals, the mind and emotional thoughts. What we have to do? To study our elementals and emotional and ethical side. And try to change them. And changing them I find that they are not myself. Yes, I can change them. And when we change them we see again that they are not us. Because we can change them. Who am I then? I am not the body. I am not my emotions. I am not my thoughts. When I was teaching this before many years to advanced students a fellow came to me and said What the devil we are then? You took away all my clothes and you left me naked. What am I? I said you are your own self. You are everything. Of course he went away. He went away. He became of his emotions. He became a great poet. Everybody is admiring him. Then I meet him sometimes. He said no, no, no, you are enemy. You deprived me from everything I am. It needs courage. I tried to explain to him that he didn't lose his light spirit body. But he says no, we took away everything. No, when you reach the self super consciousness you are not a slave of the bodies of the mind. Of the material, of the psychical and the vertical bodies. But you are you. And this self bigger than the universe. This is what we call self super consciousness. This is what we call self super consciousness. Becoming gods? Before a few days I had a question from one of you. He said when do we become gods? And the question was when do we become gods? No one will ever become a god. Because everybody is god. God is to realize what you are. You never become what you are not. We are a god spirit soul ego. We are everlasting life. In our incorruptible spirit body. With all its divine powers. And we exist in many kinds of existence. Now. We are. Always have been. Always will be. And we will always be an immortal self. Spirit soul ego. Which reflects the shadow. In the world of existence. In the ethical, the psychical and the gross material. Coloring itself with the various bodies. Build up these bodies by the holy archangels of the elements. Sort of double. Eternal self. And in time and place is created from time to time self. Now. Are we losing our temporary selves? Or personalities? No. Because in every personality we create an elemental of the personality. From the time of birth of the spermatozoon until the passing over. It doesn't matter where. Which is a living elemental in the cosmic memory. And if you can attune yourself with your inner self you can approach in the cosmic memory. All those elementals of yourself you have made. Everything is there. Even if before 5000 years. What a kind of personality. Trying to throw away from you a fly flying. You can see that that. Nothing is lost. Everything is recorded. And tell me, how many kinds of that personality cells do we have? Maybe hundreds. What is your gain now? All those lessons you have taken by pain and experiences are in your subconsciousness now as predisposition. Predisposition. Predisposition. So, no need to remember past incarnation. Everybody has in his subconsciousness the lessons to learn. That's why two persons born are not the same. So, why you forget? Because the divine grace of the El Shaddai of the Logos decided to forget so that you will chance to go forward. so that you will chance to go forward. When you develop in your self-consciousness of a personality in self-consciousness you start remembering. Feeling. Feeling as being. Living dreams. Dreams do not exist. It is experiences. Until one day you reach a position to show yourself of your personality all the books you have written in each incarnation. in each incarnation. Nothing is lost. Good or evil. Just as Emmanuel the Christ said that nothing will remain secret. If one reaches the power of attunement of attunement look in your subconsciousness and approach anyone of your person of your incarnation. Then we can approach these experiences of any incarnation. Nothing is lost. Good or evil. For how long? We can live like that. Forgetting and remembering and going on. What is time in eternity? Time is not for everybody the same. And what did Emmanuel the Christ said? The perishable will become imperishable. And the immortal will become immortal. Which means every incarnation of yours in the past is in you and everywhere. You cannot kill yourself to it. Or anybody cannot kill himself to your past. By attunement to. And by attunement with. It can become one with it. So everything is also common. This means the oneness or the common selfhood. Which Emmanuel the Christ tried to make us understand. By preaching with his miracles. With his way of living. Admitting to be nailed on the wood. Raising and erecting his body correctly. He gave us the great lesson what we are. One of the greatest mercy of God is in our personalities incarnations to forget pain. How many of you had operations or accidents and you had great pain? You may close your eyes and remember all details of the accident. Or giving birth. Try to remember pain. You cannot. That's the grace of God. He takes away from you what you call pain. Material pain. Or even surgical pain. And we say time is healing every wound. Even surgical. So all these things need study. And one of our divine powers as spirit-soul is observation. And knowing. Because you must learn to practice it. In what we call introspection. Looking within and studying within now. In entering in the kingdom of the heavens which is in our nature as spirit-souls. But reaching that have to pass through very dirty but smelling pool. Which is our subconsciousness now. Passions. Weaknesses. Jealousies. Enmities. Aggressiveness. Because to be born enough to cross that but smelling pool in our subconsciousness. And entering in the kingdom of the heavens which is our nature. The seven heavens. The Christ was describing these heavens. Jesus Emmanuel der Christos hat diese Himmel beschrieben. Er nannte es You don't know. Which means the kingdom of the heavens. So it needs much work. Und wir brauchen viel Arbeit. Much sincerity with our lower self. This is the teachings of our esoteric learning. Now we will get the golden key. Und jetzt bekommen wir die goldenen Schlssel. Start to understand the nature of the mind. Start to understand the way you are creating elementals from the mind. Start to understand the relationship between thought and emotional desire. Free the mind from being the slave of emotions and desire. Make it the master of thinking. Try to understand what you are. Saying I am not an animal like the animals around me. Because I have a body of flesh and blood and bones. Like the other animals. I am what? This is where you will make the exercise I am telling you to ask. And the archangels working in your bodies for you. And your guardian archangels and the beloved one Jesus Emanuel who is here now with us and is in you and with you feeling the weaknesses of the human beings. After being humanized he is offering you his hands and his arms. So you don't have the right to say you don't have help. Nobody had ever been alone. Even if they cross you in a dungeon, in a prison. You are not alone. Or if you remain alone in a room for months. Nobody is alone. But one has to realize that. By introspection. Try to control emotions. Transmit them from evil to good and use the mind. Of course time is doing that. God is doing it. When human beings get water and earth and they make mud it starts to stink. And they mix the two elements earth and water. The heat around the fire will make evaporation. And that bad smelling mud will become again pure earth. And the water will become nice dew on the leaves of the trees. So you are a material body. You are emotions. Made in your subconscious in that bad smelling mud. And control the emotions and desires. Hatred. Jealousy. That is feeling of evil. Aggressiveness. Make a warm prayer. Fill that prayer with the fire of the spirit and you will change that mud. Because the mind even becoming that bad smelling mud is still holy. So we have to have it in our minds. Coach a prayer. Creating a helpful element of it. Because every thought and every emotion are creating elementals. Which are composing our personality. Then you say, which is the best prayer? Prayer is not just get certain phrases and recite them and your mind be somewhere else. Each one can make his own prayer to his father or her father. Maybe one of the most effective prayers is God have mercy upon us. That is even enough. But who said? The lips or the heart? So we can create elementals by thought by words or without heart. But clean the heart. Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said Pleasant are the pure in heart because they shall see God. So my advice is that everybody should pray. Ask your soul to make the prayer you need for you. And now we do an exercise. Relax completely. That means your body is yours. They trust it to you. They built it. They sustain it. They give it to you as yours. Relax all the muscles in your body. But feel you are in it. Without tension. No tension. Just feel you are in the body. Just feel you are in the body. Breathe deeply and comfortably. And say with your mind Absolute Infinite Beingness The Logos Our Father One in heavens and in us. In our being self and in our bodies. Everything is yours. We are yours. Our self even sinful is part of your selfhood. We are in your oneness. We don't ask you to clean us. We don't ask you to clean us. We ask you to help us to clean ourselves for your sake. We will try to clean this self of ours. Our present personality so do not be a stain of dirt in your own self. Help us clean ourselves to deserve saying that we are one in you and with you. Breathe deeply. You are in the breath I am breathing. You are the life of my bodies and you are the light of my personality. Help me to understand you. I will clean myself and you clean it also. So that I will not be a stain in your selfhood. Inspire me and help me to love all human beings. Because if you call them evil but good or very good they are as they are in your selfhood. Divine Father have mercy upon us. Feel God in the parts of your heart. He is present in your bodies. You are never alone. He knows all nine. Thank you. Daskalos - What we Believe as Seekers of the Truth - 1993- 05-31 A discourse by Dr. Stylianos Ateslis, known as Daskalos. The identical thing that we now call Christian religion existed among the ancients and has not been lacking of the human race leading up to the coming of Christ in the flesh from which moment on the true religion which already existed began to be called Christian. God who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son whom he hath appointed heir of all things by whom also he made the worlds. God is love and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in him. Absolute truth is a brilliant many-sided diamond. The great light fills this gem and colors gleam from every side. Mystics, messengers, sages and teachers of all ages, races and beliefs have spoken of a different face of this common eternal truth. Monotheistic esoteric Christianity has been unfolding in human consciousness since time immemorial as a clear and concise reflection of the truth. Our system for the research of truth is devoted to the esoteric Christian tradition. Our exploration of the truth and our ever-increasing conscious engagement in absolute beingness's divine plan is achieved through directed study, observation, exercise, prayer and meditation. Our approach is methodical, safe and self-evident. We seek to embrace the holy gifts, insights and revelations bestowed upon us. We aspire to understand and attune ourselves with the divine laws, forms, principles and causes governing life. We work in love's name, patiently and harmoniously. We value the balanced development and integration of our entire being as we cultivate our emotional, moral, spiritual and mystical aspects. Dr. Stylianos Attaslis, popularly known as Daskalos, has been teaching esoteric Christianity and healing for over 70 years. In the late 1980s, Daskalos, having lived a deliberately quiet existence, gained worldwide attention resulting from a number of publications describing his work and life. It was not long after that seekers from the world over began arriving in Strovolos, Cyprus to learn more of what Daskalos was teaching. Daskalos began conducting public lessons in the Stoa to guide the arrivals. Kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, in your omnipresence as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. My beloved ones, my spiritual children. Today, I'm feeling really very happy being with you all. I'm really today very happy. Just to give you, in detail, what we believe and what is our system concerning the research of the truth. I would like to give you an overview of what we believe and what is our system concerning the research of the truth. Of course, all during these centuries which have passed, enlightened ones have revealed the great reality, which is God. In old Egypt, they called him Amun-Ra. Later, the one, the true God, was called by Al-Kenaten as Ator. Later, the one, the true God, was called by Al-Kenaten as Ator. Confucius in China had spoken about the way, Tao, to God. The Hindus have called him Ishwar. The Hindus have called him Ishwar. And many, many names. Enlightened one, as Confucius said, was the Buddha, the enlightened one. He had approached God more than anybody else in the past. He gave the eightfold noble path. Eight jewels of the truth. And this enlightened one was the one who became the real prophet. Who said to his disciples, 500 years from today, God will be humanized and incarnated directly. This is what the eastern people had in mind and went to worship Christ at his birth. You will find this even in the Gospel. So, all the ways to God are respected. We have to respect all these roads and ways to God. Going through all of them, studying them. You will find very beautiful and fragrant flowers. But also dark bushes. From which are coming out venomous snakes. And in Christianity, you will find the truth as beautiful, fragrant flowers. But maybe in Christianity you have more dark bushes than ever had been. Prejudices in the various dogmas. And venomous snakes coming out, biting. How much bloodshed until now, in the name of the Lord of Love. This is human weakness. All through the centuries. Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, the God-man, in Gethsemane the last night, before his arrest a few hours, he had asked his father, if it was possible to move away from him that bitter cup, this had been greatly misunderstood. What was the cup? He had requested his father to move away from him. The crucifixion? The tortures? No. He said, for this hour I have come, to prove that this material body is nothing, it is the spirit soul that counts. In a moment, he had seen what was going to follow. The persecutions. And the inquisitions of the Christians. He is still, yes, he is still requesting his father, to remove that cup from him. Christians killing Christians. So even in Christianity, we have those dark bushes, of prejudice, hatred, enmity, malice, which the God-man came to send away. Now, what is our now, system for the civilization of the truth? We are Christians. Following the Christian doctrine. Love God, and love all other human beings, not less than you love your own self. Which means, it is the doctrine of love. Now, in the Bible, in the Gospels, they have taken much out of the great truth. But there is much in it yet. What was the life of the God-man, Churchill and Manuel, the Messiah? To teach human beings, that we are all offsprings of God, the Father. And to worship him. When Joshua Emmanuel de Christ was only 16 years of age, he composed his worship prayer, in Greek and in Aramaic. Joshua Emmanuel de Christ was an Essene. Joshua Emmanuel de Christ was an Essene. The Essenes were what we call Greco-Israelites. Not Israelites. Yes, brothers. But not the same. Because the Essenes had presented a God-Father, merciful, loving, and not punishing. And not be jealous and punishing God of Moses. They have just replaced the law, the Torah. Reforming it. Taking out the tooth for a tooth, and an eye for an eye. And Joshua Emmanuel, the God-man, said, If one strikes you on the one cheek, offer him the other. A great difference now. In the law, they have abolished completely the blood sacrifices in the temples. And so the Israelites were considering the Essenes as heretics. But at the time of Christ, they didn't break off. Because one third of the population were Essenes. They have rejected the Samarites. But they were not willing to reject the Essenes. And become weaker, having in their mind to kick away the Romans from Palestine. But all the time, they were torturing the Essenes. Of course, the procurator of the Romans had proposed to the Essenes to get the Roman citizenship. So they will not be under the cruel jurisdiction of Herod and of the Sahedrin. The Sahedrin was the religious authority of Israel. But the Essenes worshipping a God, one God, one spirit God, did not want to get the citizenship of the idolaters. And so they were under the jurisdiction of the Herod and the Sahedrin. Though they had their differences from the Israelites. The Essenes' mother language was Greek and Aramaic. The Syriac Aramaic. While the Israelites had another kind of Aramaic. Which later became the Hebrew language. Because they are sister languages. The second great difference was that of the law. The Essenes were worshipping a benevolent father, omnipresent, omniscient. A God of love. While the Israelites were worshipping the Allah of Moses. A cruel, jealous God, punishing God. These were great differences. That was the life at the time of the God-men in Palestine. The founders of the modern system of the research of the truth for us, was Kamel Kior, or the Maharaja Ram. One of the wise kings who having in mind the prophecy of Buddha, came to worship Christ. So, he founded the present system we are following. Which is the difference between this system and the system of the old Egyptians? I mean the system of the Echnaton, worshipping Aton. Not great difference. Because the Essenes of Egypt were worshipping Allaha Elat. That means the Lord Aton. Even today, the Essenes, and even the Hebrews are calling him Atonaim Elek. But now, Joshua Emmanuel, the God-man, gave more information about the benevolent, merciful Allaha. When Joshua Emmanuel de Christ was 16 years of age, he had composed the worship prayer, which is part of the Lord's Prayer we are using now, in the Greek and in the Aramaic languages. I will say it as he said it. This was what Joshua Emmanuel had composed as worship prayer to his father. Which is Our Father in Heaven. Sanctified is your name. Your kingdom has come as it is in the heavens, so on the earth. This is the real translation of the Lord's Prayer. The worship prayer came afterwards in Bethsaida. He had 35,000. Before materializing the etheric vitality into bread and fish, fried fish, then he said, Give us today our daily bread. Then he got out of his sentences. But the worship prayer was as I said that before. Now, what is the difference between our system of the search of the truth from the other systems? I said all the ways to God, to Israel, to Allah, to the Eternal Aton, to Theos, to Allah are all the same. And are respected by us. The flowers in the gardens of our neighbors are as good as our flowers in our garden. So the first thing the seekers of the truth are free from is prejudice. The principle teaching of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ we are following is love to the absolute infinite authority. To the absolute infinite reality. To the absolute infinite selfhood. And to all other human beings. Not interested how their behavior living in the darkness will be towards us. Because in every human being even calling himself our enemy his ego being soul is God. So we have to love those calling themselves our enemies. So our doctrine is love. To God and to man. Some are saying that Joshua Emmanuel the Christ didn't exist. But what does it matter? The story about Joshua Emmanuel the Christ or the truth he had given? And what the truth he had given saying I am the way the truth and life is love. And these are living necessary principles for the life of human beings on the planet. And this love is a living necessary principle for the life of human beings on this planet. And now back to our system. See what the God-man was doing. Healing. Healing the material bodies of the human beings. Everyone. Enemy or friend. Israelite Bedouin Roman Greek or anybody. No distinction. And he was training hundreds on the healing just how to heal other people. Hundreds of Israelites. Essenes. But only 70 have succeeded to become experts. And another 12 the companions, the apostles, disciples. And another 12 became his companions, the disciples, the apostles later. He was healing hundreds a day. Feeling the human pain as his own pain. Because all human beings are part of his eschatary selfhood, his locus selfhood. Every living being manifesting a selfhood, an I- ness is part of his selfhood. Our pain was and is today his pain also. Now, those who doubt about the existence of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ rely on books of bad faith people. When they develop their self-superconsciousness to higher degrees they can attune themselves to the events of that period. And can see and can live everything which had ever existed. Not only that period but in any period of time on the planet. That means attuning themselves to the cosmic memory. As a human being has in himself his subconscious memory so our planet so we don't care what stupid people write and say. The truth is there in the cosmic memory. And there Joshua Emmanuel the Christ is the way the truth and life. So, I said, we are not going not to respect any of the enlightened ones. But the Son of God came to testify the truth about what they said. He showed us the way. Which is the way he had shown us the seekers of the truth. Just two ways. The one is to know the truth. To free ourselves from the prejudice and the illusions of this world of separateness. Which is the cause of all unhappiness and misery and despair on the planet. The second way is the way of service of loving human beings as our own selves. How? He had taught us that. Just to cure the human body of a person he was doing it and he is doing it even now. But that's not the most important. Because whether one becomes a psychical or mental spirit healer just with the etheric vitality of his body cure a wound in a few seconds people around us will call it a miracle. They call it an event in life only. If he is not doing that the archangels of the elements in the bodies, in our bodies will do it. Wounds will be crossed down and bones will join. We can see it every day. We can see every day the work of the holy archangels in our bodies. But that's not the most important which Joshua Emmanuel Christ taught us. It is to cure the wounds of the personalities of men. Now sometimes science is calling it psychical wounds. This is not a real description. Because they make the mistake to consider the personality as the soul, which is not. The soul is never getting tired. But of course part of the present day personality is the soul. Because our personality is in its duality. He taught that we should try to cure, heal, what I will call wounds on the personality of a man not on the body. Not on the personality but on the personality of the person to heal and cure. Which are more painful and more difficult to cure. So, he taught his healer's disciples how to use the etheric vitality through their etheric double give it to the ones who are in need of it and a cure was done. So, one of the works of the seekers of the truth is to train themselves those who want. Just in learning how to use what you call the etheric vitality and use their etheric double the etheric double of their material bodies. Joshua Emmanuel, the God-man was training people for this work. And so, we are doing also. But of course everybody is not obliged to follow this way. But definitely to know the truth it is the duty not of a seeker of the truth but of every human being. Because then one will value life understand the holiness of life understand who he or she is as a spirit-soul-self and what is life on the planet as a human being. Now on the planet we see life in many, many kinds of forms and many phenomena of life. That class of life we call it the animal kingdom. But these animals are expressing their mind as instinct. Of course the seeker of the truth is studying all these phenomena of life. But we are not animals. Though we have a body bones, blood, flesh, skin, hair and everything the animals have. We human beings are not animals. We are using the mind supersubstance in expressing our real self as consciousness. As self-superconsciousness. This is what Joshua was teaching them. All of you are God's offspring of the Almighty Father. Children of the Almighty Father. He was saying with emphasis We are God's offspring of the Father. This is the greatest principle. And when he knows that one finds himself not male or female but as Henico saw he becomes the master of matter. Now somebody will tell you he had succeeded Joshua declared with two fried fish and five loaves of bread to feed five thousand. And he said Anyone who can learn the way how to materialize the etheric vitality can do it. And he said what I am doing those who believe me know me, they know what I am doing they can do the same thing and still more things can do. We call it materialization. And dematerialization. This is something anybody can do if he will learn how to do it. Become the master of matter. Yes. Are we allowed to do it? On certain occasions, yes. But definitely not to satisfy stupid curious people. Becoming slaves of an egoist, personal egoist. Because this work of materialization and dematerialization we can see it every day around us. It is the work of the holy archangels of the elements. The archangels of the elements. Of the Marquis, the Gabriels, the Raphaels, the Uriels, the Cherubs. So human beings they can do it when they reach by attunement their self-good. Humans can do it when they reach by authority. Otherwise doing it, being slaves of a personal egoist may call them black magicians. Transgressing the divine laws. So one should know also what is the truth. It is not a matter of doing it, but one is allowed to do it. A seeker of the truth as a psychical healer or spirit healer is doing more serious work working on living matter. Phenomena will be presented as divine mercy of God and not just to satisfy curious people. So phenomena unless the permission is given from above are not to be shown. Just become good healers. Work with the etheric vitality and your etheric psychic, etheric body. The Holy Spirit the Shekinah through your hands will make legs being longer. And any kind of healing and curing Joshua Emmanuel the Christ was doing it on hundreds a day. Teaching the way. Are these phenomena not enough? Is it necessary just to transgress the law of matter which is in the heart only of our holy brothers the archangels? One may say, but can we do it? Can I transmute the lead into gold? Any kind of matter to another kind of matter? On certain occasions when I was given the permission I have done it myself in front of scientists. But this is not something to be repeated just to satisfy curiosity. Because this is the work of our holy brethren the archangels. When we are allowed to do that if you raise your self-consciousness to the level of the self-superconsciousness be able to attune yourself to your holy brothers the archangels and get their permission. Otherwise it is black magic and we should be aware of this black magic. So, one can do that in attunement with the holy archangels of the elements. And when you can become a real psychic healer in attunement with the Logos the Lord of Love and the Holy Spirit can we do that? Of course we can! And this is our duty. For us Joshua Emmanuel the Christ is not an historic person. He is still here amongst us. He said, when there are two or three gathered in my name I am amongst them as the self-superconsciousness. Now to call yourself seekers of the truth is a great honor for you. Because what is the truth? Knowing the reality concerning life and your own self. Who you are. Not what you are. You may be a man or a woman it's what you are. But who you are you are an ego soul spirit being God. So the seeker of the truth must find it find the reality of this great truth. But now there is a how. Everybody thinks it's easy, very very easy to find that way. Of course Joshua Emmanuel is not forcing anybody to follow him. He said John who wishes let him shoulder his cross and follow me. So he is mentioning about the cross. What's a cross? He had given himself to be nailed and crucified on his cross. Suffering by other human beings around him. A seeker of the truth will find that in his way. Even people accusing fighting even trying to kill you. This is the way of Golgotha. Which means we don't have to respond to the evil. But calm and quiet treat our way. That's how to follow him. Crucifixion. Who will crucify us and who will be crucified so that we will be resurrected. In our case we will be the crucifiers. Crucify whom? The egos of the present personality. The egos of the present personality has to die. That means annihilated. So that the ego or real self will be resurrected. Now the way. We have to crucify this present day personality not in a moment. But every moment. How? Finding out the reality concerning our way of life. Our intentions. Our desires. Our emotions. Study all this behavior of our personality. This is the way of arresting the egoism. And deprive it of its power. One would say if not our egoism our personality's egoism our ego At the beginning we think we are. Because the ego of the personality is making bad use of that time and place self which is the real ego. Presenting its time and place petty self as the real self. So we have to disentangle our real self from the phenomenon regression of time and circumstances and place. And this is the principal duty of every seeker of the truth. Whether he would follow the path of knowledge or the path of service. There is no other way. One would put the question do we have the power of doing that? Of course we have it. But are we willing of doing that under the persuasion of the present egoism? So we have by using introspection looking within knowing the truth disentangle our real self. From the time and circumstances and place self which in reality is changing every moment. So the egoism and the personality of course is changing. Our intentions our desires, our wishes our behavior our thoughts are changing. But we as spirit, ego soul beings we are not changing. We are God. We are the life itself. The everlasting life. So for so many centuries in the past reincarnations and passing away and reincarnated and passing away it was getting experiences. What for? I call them days at school until we grow up. For me an incarnation is nothing more than a day at school. For me an incarnation is nothing more than a day at school. And at school we are going to learn what? In this school called the planet it is to learn a great truth. To know what is the reality concerning the absolute infinite authority God. Our Heavenly Father. When Joshua Immanuel was saying these words in Greek or in Aramaic the universes were shaking. Father, Immanuel and the Suranis. These are great words. Shaking the universes. He was saying that the universes were shaking. He was feeling his father in him. And when he was pressing his hand no illnesses could stand on any human being. We must understand the power of words having behind them meanings shaking the soul self. Then you will reach the real spirit soul respect. Then all of you will understand we are not weak beings. Because the human being is not destined to behave like an animal but to reflect God. So, when you gather yourselves in your circles start with the prayer. Our Father in heaven your name is sanctified in the heavens and so in earth your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. This is enough. Start with the worship glorification. will be enlightened. He will be amongst you. Feel him here. And see what your program. Developing your consciousness to the level of the super consciousness of self consciousness and super self consciousness. Developing by training yourself now as an ego not as an egoist. To help suffering human beings around you. To express in your self consciousness the divine love. How? By using the mind now in all its ways. As waking consciousness and observation. As study to develop your self consciousness. Again using your divine nature observation. Still developing your self consciousness to the higher level. Always expressing your nature as God the observation. Nothing must escape your attention. And you will find out that your five senses can be developed. As you are using them now are very defective. Many say to me we would like just to make the exosomatosis. When you develop your self consciousness you will find yourself in the other worlds of dimensions without trying. But there is only one royal way. The golden keys which I am giving you. What are the golden keys? Visualization and observation. Which are your own inner spiritual nature. So it is not something impossible. Difficult. Of course if you hear all the time the suggestions of the egoist it is difficult. But when you decide to hear your inner voice as a spirit soul self it is very easy. You hear the voice of Joshua saying come to me. And my way is easy for everyone. For everyone who wishes to follow that way. So now I have described the aims of our system for the research of the truth. And I repeat this thing. All plots and ways to God for us are to be respected. Study all the systems you wish. In our system there is no prohibition. Choose the mind. Now in the reasonable way to find the truth. I am telling you the guardian archangel in you the ego fight archangel is ready to help you. Of course that archangel who sometimes gives very bad slaps as things of consciousness when one is doing something very bad. He is very ready to embrace you and kiss you. And help you. So by introspection you will come in self conscious contact with that guardian archangel of yours. In your being. And in self conscious contact with the archangels who are working for you in your bodies. You start to respect their work. They build a temple of God to your bodies. Of the spirit ego self. I repeat it, you are gods you are not animals. You have to understand this great reality. Then our way is made easier. I repeat again to call yourself seekers of the truth being really seekers of the truth is a great honor. Any questions? You must have questions concerning yourself. You must have questions for your circles. Anyhow I am telling you I am with all of you. I know how your circles are working. When you are in difficulties close your eyes and ask me and you will get the answer. And I know that many of you have done it already without telling you. That means attunement. This is the second step you have to put your feet on. So I say that again, today I am very happy being with all of you. You are god to me my own self. Daskalos - You Are Dual in One - 1993 08 30 A discourse by Dr. Stylianos Ateslis, known as Daskalos. The identical thing that we now call Christian religion existed among the ancients and has not been lacking of the human race leading up to the coming of Christ in the flesh, from which moment on the true religion, which already existed, began to be called Christian. God who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Absolute truth is a brilliant, many-sided diamond. The great light fills this gem, and colors gleam from every side. Mystics, messengers, sages, and teachers of all ages, races, and beliefs have spoken of a different face of this common eternal truth. Monotheistic, esoteric Christianity has been unfolding in human consciousness since time immemorial, as a clear and concise reflection of the truth. Our system for the research of truth is devoted to the esoteric Christian tradition. Our exploration of the truth, and our ever-increasing conscious engagement in Absolute Beingness's divine plan, is achieved through directed study, observation, exercise, prayer, and meditation. Our approach is methodical, safe, and self-evident. We seek to embrace the holy gifts, insights, and revelations bestowed upon us. We aspire to understand and attune ourselves with the divine laws, forms, principles, and causes governing life. We work in love's name, patiently and harmoniously. We value the balanced development and integration of our entire being as we cultivate our emotional, moral, spiritual, and mystical aspects. Dr. Stylianos Attaslis, popularly known as Daskalos, has been teaching esoteric Christianity and healing for over 70 years. In the late 1980s, Daskalos, having lived a deliberately quiet existence, gained worldwide attention resulting from a number of publications describing his work and life. It was not long after that seekers from the world over began arriving in Strovolos, Cyprus, to learn more of what Daskalos was teaching. Daskalos began conducting public lessons in the stoa to guide the arrivals. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness. God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightyness. And that in our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts. To love you. And to love all other human beings around us. Amen. Welcome to Cyprus. What is the system of the research of the truth? Does it serve any useful purpose now? Why should we engage ourselves with these kinds of studies to search for the truth? But now, what is the truth? Can we know the truth while living in material bodies in this gross material world? Of course not. But we can know the relative truth by comparison in things in the daily life. Of course. Or during these past centuries from the time of the cavemen the human being was a seeker of the truth. Why? Because he was not an animal like all the other animals around him. Because he was human. He found himself living in a world very difficult to live in it. To live in the caves. Just holding a club in his hand to protect himself from the other animals and to secure his food. He was single around him. Phenomena of life. Many, many, many phenomena of life around him. Most of the phenomena of life were too hostile to him at that time. Volcanoes. Many volcanoes. Suffocating atmosphere. He was trying to find a safer and better place to live. Caves far away from volcanoes and from the huge, huge monsters of that time. The dinosaurs, the brontosaurus and all those which be. To find him living in caves. Living a family life. Of course. He was observing and looking at the sky. Seeing the sun rising in the morning and setting in the evening. He started thinking, who is just holding that big ball of fire giving us heat on the sky? He started using the fire. Hot, the fire. He was living in his caves, just using the fire to keep himself warm and just cook his food. And torches, giving little light and too much smoke. The life of the human beings was really very, very, very difficult. Yet they were living. And were pleased of the life. Because they wanted to preserve it. And years were going on and on and centuries and centuries. Of course, the animals have remained animals. The cows and the ox and the asses and the horses are the same as they were at that time. Why? You cannot see any ox just talking or writing as a human being. Why? Don't they breathe the same air we are breathing? Don't they have in their skulls better quality of brains, bigger in size? Of course they do. But is thinking just material lobs of brain in the skull? No. They may serve a purpose definitely to the human being to think. They may serve the senses but it isn't the mind. And the animals cannot use the super substance of the mind super vitality in thinking. And what human beings found out through these centuries, the past centuries. Because some enlightened ones, more advanced, caring more about knowing and learning what is what. They found out some of the truth. The others. Just as today, most of the human beings who are engaged with their daily life making their own life. They were satisfied with their own life. As of today. Even in the past, they were just the same. So only some enlightened ones started thinking engaging themselves with finding the truth. All these centuries we had these enlightened ones which came to the same conclusions that the human being is not an animal like all the animals there just because it has a material body similar to that of the animals bones, flesh blood, muscles and certain organs. They came to that conclusion. Then they came to this conclusion who created all those living phenomena of life all around us in the animal kingdom and who created him as a human being had observed that by instinct and during the sexual course all the phenomena of life were bringing to life offsprings of their own similar to them. And he was bringing in life human beings as himself. How is that? Because they started studying all these matters. The human beings. And they came just to the conclusion that there must be a much higher intelligence super intelligence much higher than his own human intelligence who is controlling all that. Shall we call it nature? Let us call it nature. Shall we call it life? Yes, let us call it life. But we see so much differences in the phenomena of life. And we see also some similarities in this phenomena of life. Breathing, moving, living. But what kind of life each phenomena of life of the animal kingdom is doing? And what is the way of living of a human being? Of course, we know what all those wise and enlightened ones have taught us all through the centuries until before 20 centuries. God, Joshua, Emmanuel. The God-man himself came down on earth as a human being to teach us the truth. As much truth as we could assimilate and understand. Saying that we are all offsprings of Allah, of God. Of the Almighty God. That God is spirit super self. The absolute infinite selfhood. And we are in its oneness in its omnipresent oneness though we cannot understand it. He said that God for Allah is everywhere. In our breath, in the air we are breathing. In the mind vitality, we are breathing with the air catching it in our material bodies in everything. So he gave the code of life. Telling every truth. Now. Making comparison. We see the caveman in the caves in a very hostile nature in a very unpleasing atmosphere to live. Little light, much smoke difficult to breathe in dangers everywhere. We see him now, the human being in big cities luxurious houses with every kind of comfort even the most poor house has electric light and he is using electricity for his comfort to have cold water during the summer. Even the poorest man has more comfort and pleasure now than a king in the past centuries. So you see the difference now the human being the care of the human beings at that time was how to survive to protect themselves. Now they send rockets to space they landed on the moon they have so many many many things this is what we call the present day civilization. The television the computers everything. They put the question now is the human being happier today than when he was in the caves? Is he leading just a happier life? If you get a hundred persons here and ask them if they are happy definitely 80% will say no. Are you pleased of life? Of course this is not a proper question you would say to him Are you pleased of your life? Because each fellow is doing his own life. Life is general. Life is good. We are all breathing eating digesting, living this is the general life but what is the life of each one of us? Each one of us is creating his or her own life. And if you ask someone Are you satisfied of your life? Definitely they say 80% in hundred people No! Then put them the question why and who is responsible for that? God, Allah Almighty who is giving you the life who is keeping you living who is doing everything created everything for you to live everything in abundance the air, the mind vitality plenty of food to eat just to keep the human body living Why you are not happy? Now, 20% of the people who say happy of course you don't feel happy but we feel sometimes satisfied sometimes when things are not going on well not very satisfied, then they change we are in the world of change They found one side of the truth Change Now what is the seeker of the truth doing today? Trying to use the mind super substance at least consciously if not yet self-consciously but unfortunately human beings are using this mind substance subconsciously and instinctively at least we should use it consciously just start thinking seriously and reasonably putting to ourselves the question Who are we? We are a phenomenon of life all of us as all the other phenomenon of life all around us we must study now what is common, what is similar and what is the difference between us and all the animals all around us then we should start thinking as the seekers of the truth today again I say using the mind super substance vitality which God has given us the right to use just to find out our differences amongst us and the consequences of all those differences in our own life and who is responsible for the way of life we are living and we must come to conclusions find out the reasons why all those people, 80% of the people are not satisfied of their own life without just caring about what is life and that they are living of course the intention of the absolute infinite intelligence it was not just the human being to live an unhappy life and what we find out now of course we have to use our mind thinking, meditating trying to understand in many many branches of study and we have plenty of time of doing it if we want to what is life what is this absolute infinite intelligence we call God and what is our place in it what we are of course we have everything ready and easy now God is spirit and a human being is a spirit, soul, ego, self that's clear we must start to meditate and say what is spirit what is the relationship between spirit, life light nature and all those I am seeing in nature touching, using of course a lot of science now started studying matter to be more confused now than who they were before when the father of Paul put me a question the other day how was that sir let us see a little disc with this laser you can hear just a symphony of 80 instruments musical instruments playing how is that is that the property of matter maybe but there must be something behind matter because matter is also a box material thing is a television and an empty box there is some difference between matter and matter so we have to study what is behind all these things of course we are not going to deify now matter but you can see that behind matter and using the matter is really the absolute infinite intelligence expressing itself maybe as electricity as magnetism as something else that human beings will still find out and they don't have the right to reveal more it is not the time yet all these are shall we call it aspects of the infinite intelligence of God so we are living believe me in a most magnificent world we may call it a cross-material world our nature around us it is really a paradise as Allah or God and Elohim as God with His Holy Archangels in His Oneness has created and is sustaining and we have the honor to live in it and be provided with everything material everything as food just to keep on our material bodies living you are breathing the air only the air loaded with the mind vitality so that our material bodies and our other bodies to live a healthy life and serve us in what? to live a happy life why then we are not happy and not even satisfied of life this is another question which you must find out just studying the way certain families around you in your country are living and believe me it is the same way of living everywhere on the planet in the so-called civilized world and uncivilized world and then we will find out the reason and the cause of all this misery first the dissatisfaction what is dissatisfaction? why man is not satisfied? because he has too many things and too much and he is making comparisons instead of being pleased he is feeling dissatisfied if he doesn't have what he thinks he wants to have more than what he has already so it is dissatisfaction second just the habit of attaching the self in material things calling them our own a fellow finds himself living in this material world he is born in a house growing up in a house living in this world living the family life they are hot killers to call more things his own property, lands, buildings sheets of paper, we call them money shares and all those things should we not like all these things now in this world we are living with uncertainty of course having them is not a bad idea having them but not attach ourselves to them and enslave ourselves in all those things because everything we are calling ours this life is not ours first of all we did not create anything everything belongs to the absolute infinite intelligence of course according to the will of God it is given us to use it live with it but what is really wrong is just attaching ourselves and enslaving ourselves to certain things especially depriving them from all the other people even in the family to enjoy them and use them this is the main reason that makes human beings unhappy in this life this is the way most people are living in getting, possessing keeping, depriving things from others for how long? making money yes, property huge buildings, calling them their own possessing lands, shares they reach an age and then they see all around them the phenomenon of the sudden change the change that though they were living in this change every moment they never cared to study it what is the change? because the law in the material world in all the worlds of existence is movement and change a beginning, a cause of things and an end to it and so we have to understand and study what is this change and this sudden change we call death of the material body and when a fellow passes away from his material body what are all those things he was calling his own to him anymore now here what was wrong a human being had considered himself to be his material body his personality in it and how to attach to this personality to that artificial self everything calling it mine he never cared to study what is his real nature as a spirit, soul, self who cares? but we should care and we hear Christ, Joshua saying what is the gain of a human being if he will possess the whole world and loses his own soul did all these people not lose their soul neglecting it, not caring about it and thinking that their self is only the material body and nothing else so we know what is the material body we touch it, we are moving with it we are just using it if somebody will ask you do you have a soul yes we believe we do have a soul you are losing this soul not completely subconsciously without studying and knowing what is their soul if I ask you who are you which is your body you will show me your legs I said it is only your legs yourself your body I am moving, I am walking and I know, yes, my legs yes of course your legs are also your body but you have other organs in your body and you have a head also so with the soul, personality we don't have a soul we are the soul having bodies you have just to understand that and know it and express ourselves as the soul at least consciously before we reach that stage to express ourselves soul, ego, super consciousness this is now our difference from the animal life all around us now is our personality our soul it is and it isn't and Joshua Emanuel gave just a symbol to his disciples at that time he said that everything existing in this material world and all the worlds of existence is dual when your material body is dual he said the divine and the mundane I think that is the word in everything so, and he gave the symbol of a line he said a line definitely has two ends it's one line and it has an apprehensible middle what is that middle? of course you can guess it the middle of this line of existence in everything he said is Allah incomprehensible and the two sides is your divine nature to the human beings a spirit, soul, ego being and in the other side your personality as a time and place, space personal self but just to express a self a personal self you are expressing again the personality and he said, unless the body has a heart it cannot live unless the personality has the soul in it it cannot live but you can see the body moving you can see the personality behaving in this or that way the same way you see the body but you don't see the heart yet the heart is beating there it has the path of life so is that line so, if somebody will ask you who are you? you can say I am the spirit, soul, ego, self expressing in this world of manifestation in the world of existence myself as my personality to have a double self it's one line it's not two lines, yes, but it's one line no, I am the spirit, soul, ego, self matter that in time and in place I express myself as a material body a name and that material body and my personality which is the sum total of my impression my thoughts, my emotions and my life which is changing all the time because we are in the world of continuous change is presenting a self hearing to a male or a female name so I am asking you are you the soul? I am asking Mary or Helen or Alex or Constance are you the soul? say me what is your reply? of course you say what is the soul? I said you you are living and because you are living you are the soul but how you are living? because you are not you think you are but you are not you are body or the body and you are not you are emotions, you are desires you are weaknesses the way you express yourself but still in all these things it's you the soul you are part of your real self the soul, spirit, soul, self wrapped in veils of illusion and in the darkness of the material world so we don't have two selves we have one self and we have just to take away from that self even hearing to a name of a male or a female person all those things which have enchanted that time and place self which is not our ego it's the egoism of our personality this is what we are teaching all the time kill the ego you cannot kill the ego the ego is God till the spirit, soul, self can we kill the egoism that sum total of the impressions and the ways we are living I would call them human demons or human angels or elementals which are composing our present day personality again, no you have to clean it you don't have to kill even what you call the egoism of the personality but transmute it into itself the ego in it so what you have to do is by understanding meditating, knowing and reaching to the decision to cast away from ourselves all the illusions of the present day life cast illusions, which illusions? not liking things around us not of course of course everything is created by Allah so I will enjoy it, live in it giving it to us, to enjoy it, yes but not to enslave ourselves to all these phenomena all around us I'm asking you, being a slave of something how can you enjoy it? you cannot do it so there is not anything wrong having God created everything for all human beings to have them enjoy them and live with them but what is wrong and which the Lord Buddha had pointed out is the attachment to things considering them parts of ourselves so when we free ourselves from this enchantment then we'll be able to enjoy everything there is nothing wrong in it to live our life in a reasonable way now taking the human being I said the human being is double divine and mundane divine, the spirit, soul, ego, self mundane the present day personality with a divine heart beating giving it the life and we see the material body dual again, and you put a question to yourself why dual? in the skull there are two lobes of brains, why dual? don't the head have two eyes? why? two nostrils and everything has one side and the opposite side considering it one so is the tongue of the right cheek and the left cheek have two hands, two lungs, two feet see per person two testicles women have two ovaries and all that why two? because there is a reason and I cannot reveal more on that we are dual in one dual in one so it's a different thing we see the material body, we study the material body and we will use the material body in living our own way of life and not thinking that the material body is our self how to detach ourselves from the material body I had a question the other day from the inner circle of Athens they said can we think without the material brains? I said definitely you do because when you are out of your body in exosomatosis great distances maybe you are thinking you are using the mind in thinking and resonating in a much better way now without using the material brain it's sleeping in the skull on your bed the same way you thought that it was necessary for you to exchange a telephone call with somebody in far distance you are in need just of instruments and the wire you thought at the beginning that it was not possible without that wire to communicate now you don't need it, you have the wireless you have other means so I'm telling you the material brains these two types of brains are useful they are more for moving the parts of the body but not for many many things not for thought and reasoning so we have just to take the decision to understand that we are not our bodies but we are using them and we can use them in a better way than we are using them now we have, as the seekers of the truth after studying the material body we have to study it we have to know a little of anatomy those who will engage themselves with psychical healing should have a knowledge of anatomy but apart from that we have just to know that the mould of the material body is its mind etheric vitality double and start using it because unless we are using it we are using it now subconsciously and instinctively unless we use it consciously how can we be sure about the existence of this material of this etheric double of the material body though using it we feel we are living we are not using it how will we know that we are living that we use it subconsciously when we start using it consciously then we put other questions who am I now who can be the master of that material body I was considering it to be myself and who am I being now the master of this so called etheric body the etheric double now using it I am sure about its existence because now I am using it as kinetic ether, as aesthetic ether as imprinting ether I am using it and that by using the mind super substance as thought I can proceed on and see what more must I learn by observation meditation and trying to know start studying our personality the nature of our personality our personality then you see that there are great differences amongst the people the personality of the other people in what in the way they are expressing their desires their emotions and their reactions to these sensations and emotions so we have as a next step after studying our material body to study our personality and what is this personality made of and we see that all the time we are using subconsciously the mind super substance, formless in making forms by our desires and our wishes creating what I would call them the human demons or the human angels human demons human in nature demons having our nature these are the elementals we call them evil elementals or good elementals you see that the sum total of all these elementals good and bad are composing our present day personality what is our next step who am I now as the present day personality am I satisfied of my way of behaving and living and I get an inner voice saying NO and they say why then there would be of course a struggle in ourselves they say NO I will find myself who is myself and the things I should get rid of start to disenergize the undesirable elementals silence and put in activity the so called human demons in us and create what I would say the human angels good elementals so in this way we study now the nature of our desires in this way now we are studying the nature of our desires and our emotions then what do we say to ourselves NO I enter in this personality of mine which I am considering myself without knowing it what is this personality of mine now it is for me something concrete to study and not be slave of it slave of its composition the ego of the personality without knowing who I am and entering now in what we call our subconsciousness we have to examine now the nature of our desires at first the desires now this needs much attention what is a desire how it is created just study things step by step seeing, hearing, listening then the desire to know more about it approach it just have it, possessing it you have to study all the course of a desire this is what I call serious study and study the many kinds of desires all around us then we go a step forward my emotions, what are my emotions my relationship with other human beings male or female in the family, in the community attraction, repulsion why, what is the cause behind it we call it friendship animosity, enmity we have to study the quality of these things composing our subconsciousness enter boldly in it what is the gain in the course of time we find out who we are, who are able now just to check things control things dis-energize undesirable elementals and encourage good elementals and now we start creating consciously what we call the human angels the good elementals in us what is the gain again now life for us is giving us a pleasure life for us is no more a burden and the way you are thinking now and the way you are living now is not causing us troubles with other people in the family or in the community can we understand that we are not what we thought we were the personality's egoism with its obstinacy and all devices forcing us just to do don't get decisions, no of course at the beginning you will find the egoism of the personality complaining using all kinds of tricks because I'm telling you the egoism of the personality is as intelligent as you are and studying the elementals any elementals of any human being you will find that every elemental has the intelligence of its creator not more not less so you are on equal grounds now you have to be on the alert but when you convince you are egoism which the heart of it is yourself your soul self in it when you convince it that it's not right and you are not immortal as you are now but you can be immortal transmuting yourself to me then convincing this egoism of yours will cooperate with you to assimilate itself to you so at the beginning you will find much opposition but try to convince yourself by reasoning that you are a mortal time and place existing thing but in you is my beingness try to transmute yourself to me that means withdraw the one end of the line at least to the middle of it then it will cooperate then you understand what Joshua Manuel de Christ said the mortal will become immortal and the perishable will become imperishable because in another way it has no sense so we have to work so that we'll understand that we are not the time and place self all the time changing its attitude its behavior and its nature but we are we now somebody will put the question but who is just starting doing all this work myself as George and Mary my present day personality starting searching to do all this work or my real self my spirit, soul, ego I say both in one because they are one you are dual in one this is the main work that the seeker of this truth has to do there are many many branches and many many fields of study and of investigation but I say we have plenty of time to do it and we have the obligation after all to start using the mind super substance at least consciously not subconsciously in creating only what we call evil elementals human demons tomorrow the lesson will be more in the using of the mind super substance vitality in creating constructive elementals speak more on the nature of the elementals because this is a matter that you can never exhaust now we just make a meditation relax completely your material body start from the toes the legs the thighs the belly the chest the head put your hands on your knees both of them and breathe deeply in six beats inhaling and six beats of the heart inhaling start inhaling exhale inhale exhale inhale exhale inhale in this rhythm in this rhythm start meditating now keep on this rhythm in breathing warm red blood is circulating now in my whole body my heart beats and in it it's the pulse of life I breathe now deeply and in there I'm breathing it's also the mind vitality of God God is in me I'm in God I'm in His omnipresent oneness I am one with it I am one with everybody I am life I am living the holy archangels of the elements are working now through my etheric double they are working sustaining my material body though breathing I am filling my lungs with fresh air in this breath I'm breathing it's also the mind vitality which I can send in every part of my material body just where the air cannot go breathe and see visualize the etheric vitality as white light entering through your nostrils passing through your lungs and fill your left leg filling it it means filling it with this white light exhaling you take the air out of your lungs in some cases but inhaling again air is also mind vitality by exhaling you don't take it out you have it stored where you have decided to store it fill your left leg with that white vitality in breathing see this white light entering through your nostrils through your lungs and going down to your left leg I said by feeling your left leg leave it full of this light now breathing this light white light vitality through your nostrils it passes through your lungs and is going to your right foot now from the toes to the place you are sitting on your chair see it filling your right leg now breathing deeply see this white light entering through your nostrils passing through your lungs going down to both your legs see them white see this white light rotating from your legs it is there feeling it it means you are there now continue breathing receiving this white light mind vitality through your nostrils passing through your lungs filling your belly don't take your attention away from your legs which are full of white light now your belly is this white light to the one who believes in Haudenosaunee I am saying rivers of living water will run out from his belly said Joshua Manuel this is very vitality fill your whole belly and your legs are full of white light breathing of course your lungs are full of this white light and your hands are full of this white light now feel your head is also full of this white light your whole material body now in breathing you feel it with this white light taking out the air from your nostrils you take all the air and gaze but not that white light now feel your material body and feel this mind vitality in your body as white light the colorless light and the white light are Allah God himself in another exercise tomorrow you are using other colored lights with other properties of this mind vitality now what you are doing the holy archangels which are in your bodies working now, sustaining your bodies are aware of what you are doing believe me they are pleased and they will help you do this exercise this afternoon when you are free that will help you concentrate Daskalos-Dec-14-1992-A-Being-Human Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation. And deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Today the lesson is very important in relation to the constitution of a human being. Concerning the human being, we said that the absolute, infinite beingness, God the Father, is always in its self-sufficiency, self-abundance. In this absolute, infinite beingness is also the will-pleasure to manifest itself in itself, presenting now itself as the absolute, infinite beingness, the Logos. Logos means the expression. We don't have a second God. It's the absolute beingness manifesting itself as the absolute beingness. To express its will-pleasure to manifest itself in itself, that means to create the world of existence. We said that. The moment, which is always, it was always, it will always be. This will-pleasure is manifested from the absolute, infinite beingness and the absolute, infinite beingness, the Lord, and the Holy Spirit emanates. The mind, is the mind the nature of the absolute beingness and beingness? Its expression, yes. The mind, we call it Geist, is not the Holy Spirit. The mind is the emanation. It's holy, not divine. It's not God, the mind. Now, set in the absolute, infinite beingness are beings. Many orders of beings. How many? Nobody can know. Not even the Archangels. These beings now, that means self-conscious, feeling being themselves apart from the beingness. In the beingness, in full oneness with the beingness, yet feeling they are themselves. This makes what we call the multiplicity of the absolute, infinite beingness. And expressing themselves, they express themselves in a common way as the absolute, infinite beingness, which is the locus and the Holy Spirit. So, what are we? One class of these beings. But there are many classes of these beings. In the absolute, infinite beingness, all the beings are similar. But expressing themselves in the absolute, infinite beingness now, in the locus, each of the beings is expressing its own self-identity. Why? Who knows? And then they classify themselves, dressing themselves with their own nature of the mind to their divine orders. They make the Archangelic orders. And we make our human, the heavenly human, our order. So, the humanity is one of the Archangelic orders. We are Archangels. We are sons of God. Gods, as the Holy Archangels are. But now, we enter in the world of the manifestation, in the world of existence. Is there any other kind of world beyond the world of existence and the world of the beingness? Maybe. Maybe. But what we can know as human beings are the worlds of existence. And those of the human beings who have raised themselves beyond the human being, entering in those worlds, they couldn't find worlds to express anything more splendid than the worlds of existence. Enough for us human beings, as long as we live in the material bodies and the other bodies, to understand the total wisdom and the all- mightiness of the infinite beingness and beingness to our capacity of understanding. Now, great ones through these ten centuries, many, many centuries back, had engaged themselves in studying these problems concerning the human being. How? They found out that they can use the mind as thought, in introspection, in research to know the truth. They got advantage of this, their own divine nature of thinking, using the mind. They found out that all the other animal life all around them could not do that. This made them understand that the human beings are gods and not simply creations as the vegetable kingdom and the animal kingdom. God has proved, really, that we are gods, creating, even subconsciously creating, because we have changed our life. The animals are living in the same way they were living all through the centuries. The lions are lions, the cows are cows, the dogs are dogs, because they could not use the mind to express their own nature. It's not the mind that creates all that, but we, through the mind, create that. Now you have a human being living in big cities, dressing himself, presenting himself in his own way, not in the way of the animals. Any lion is behaving like all the lions, and every cow is just a cow, as all other cows, as are all the animals. But not all human beings are the same as an ego personality. They are all different, because they express their divine nature, never mind if it is in an animal way of living, just living like all the other animals. Yet, we are expressing a god. In what? In expressing willpower, creativeness, and of course our own self. You say, our own self, and us human beings, as Helena, as Alex, are we gods? In nature, yes we are, but in expression we are human. We have double nature now. As we have a body with many members, yet we have a heart which beats and keeps the life in the material body, which is very, very different from what are the hands, the fingers, the nose, and other parts of the body, the heart. So, the heart, spiritual heart of every human being is God, is his own being, self-ego. Because unless that is not so, a human being cannot live and exist. So we are double. We have the animal life, but we are not animals, we are gods, expressing ourselves in our divine nature. So, now, how a human being is created, and how an animal, any kind of animals, is created, we shall see our difference from the animal life all around us. We will not take just the vegetable kingdom, only the animal kingdom. When a human being, being now, coming from the beingness, passing through the locus, entering in the idea of man, our own nature, human nature, expresses itself as the spirit, is accompanied by a brother of that spirit being, who is in the orders of the Archangels, we call thrones, next to the beingness, becoming what we call a metatronios. That spirit, egophiles, become one by oneness to the spirit ego of ourselves, who is supposed to be humanized and incarnated. This is the first process. What is created now, in that being, which is our ego, spirit being, and the egophyte already, metatronios, our so-called guardian archangel, they get the idea of man, in the beingness, in the total wisdom of the beingness, to work on it, creating what I call the permanent atom, that point on which the human being will be created. So the permanent atom is the first thing to be created. The seed, as we have in every seed, no matter if it's very small, big or bigger, it's a seed. We have the circle of possibilities of that kind of manifestation, so is the permanent atom. Now I said in a lesson, if you get the seed of an eucalyptus tree, very, very small, just like the head of a pin, or smaller yet, and see it, what's that? A seed. Yet in it is the circle of possibilities of that kind of existing life. You plant it, you give it the right circumstances, and that grows to a big eucalyptus tree. It has in it the circle of possibilities. Shall we call it the circle of possibilities of any manifestation of life? It's a permanent atom. Yes. It's a permanent atom. But the permanent atom of an animal, or of anything else, is in the total wisdom of the Almighty. It doesn't carry with it a God. In our case, our permanent atom carries in it our divine nature, which is different. So every creation in the animal life has behind it an angel, an elemental of the archangels, and of an archangel. And the whole process in the world of creation, which is taking place in the vegetable kingdom and in the animal kingdom, is taking the same place in a human being. Which means the archangels of creation get from the absolute, total wisdom of God that principle that reflects the thought and the form. The thought of it creates the form. The thought of God creates the form, which is everlasting, permanent. There was not time that forms. Now existing, we are not in the absolute, total wisdom of God as principles. Nothing is created new. Everything was, is, will be, and everything will exist in the course of time. Now, we leave the animal kingdom. Behind the animal kingdom is the archangel, the angel, the archangels of the elements, working on that form, but not an individual God being. In a human being. Soon, our own being, spirit self, with the guardian archangel, who is a metastronism, starts to manifest themselves. A third agent must present itself to complete a triangle. And the two sides are not forming a triangle. That's the will of the beingness of God, calling the archangel, so the archangel to participate, to prepare around that permanent atom, which is our spirit, ego being, and our metastronism, and also the locus. The third expression, to work on the absolute, total wisdom concerning the human being. So, in the permanent atom of a human being is the total wisdom, the seat of the father, of the beingness. To whom? To the beingness, to the locus. Let us create man, so man is a creation now, to our image and according to our likeness. That's complete. So, all the archangels of the elements, while the absolute beingness vibrates, becoming the absolute infinite beingness, co-vibrates with these archangelic orders, they start creating the work on the permanent atom, to build up the bodies of a human being. So, what is created? Created now, around the permanent atom. The permanent atom is not something created by the archangels, it's our own self, everlasting. It is in it, what we call, our form, the human form, our own nature, divine nature, as God's human beings. Now, they start to get that permanent atom, and expressing the good pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness, now working as the absolute infinite beingness, the locus, or the manifestation, they start the creation of the bodies. Now, the body must have a form. Everything existing around us in the world has their own form. It must have our human form, our divine nature. We are never losing our human form, with our characteristics. So, on that human form, they are working. They did not create the human form, they found it ready to work on it. As a human being, the form is not work of the holy archangels. They get it, they get the blueprint by infinite beingness to work to it, and construct a building. It's not the blueprint you call it, just that, to work on it. So, they start building around the form, which luminous, splendid, magnificent, pure, divine, our human form. Then working on it, they create the noetic body. That form, I am saying now, is our spirit form. I don't want to call it a body. It's a form, though. It's not a body. Because that form, the human form, our so-called, call it never mind, spiritual body, is not limited by time, place, space, or any other limitations. It's God. It's our divine, everlasting self. Immortal God. So, now we take the form. What is this form? Our human form. The human form of every one of you, in place, everywhere. But now this form has to be presented and preserved in bodies. Your own ego, beingness, and being, your real being, is not limited in the bodies, as a God. It's everywhere. Can we develop this part of our beingness, at least, if not the beingness, to vibrations beyond the limits of the bodies? Yes, we can do that. But who, reaching that splendor of the divine self, found ever words to explain what are these divine states of our real nature? Of course, the Locos. Joshua Emanuel, the Christ as a human being, knew. He was feeling that, expressing it as a human being. But with what words was he able to explain, even to his disciples, this divine state of beingness? They have asked him about divine things. He says, did you understand the material things in the worlds of existence, so that I would be able to speak to you about the divine things? Yet what did he say? When the Holy Spirit will be in you, you will understand. That will make you understand the Holy Spirit. Which means that you are not only the God being, our own being, you are expressing also the Locos beingness, we are Locoic, and also our spiritual nature, because the Holy Spirit is everywhere and in us. So, us, the absolute infinite being, beingness, God is, we call it the triad, so is the human being. The human being, the soul, and the permanent personality. That's how we are, image and likeness of God. And as they call the Archangels of the elements, are working every moment in creating the universes, so they are working in the human body of every human being, to create and sustain the human being's bodies. Only in every animal, in every plant, everything which has form, these Holy Archangels of the elements are working, just to have what we call the manifestation of a phenomenon of life, from the Amoeba to the Galaxy. So, one understanding this great work, tremendous great work of the Archangels is amazing. But these Archangels, each one of them, and as a group, they get their total wisdom and almighty force, strength, power, from the Locos and from the Holy Spirit, which are one. Now, a general description of the works of existence. Now, we said everything existing and having a materialized form, not the form, the form is not the creation of the mind, but the mind now is the stuff by which the Holy Archangels, as elements, Lords of the elements, will dress up that form to create the bodies. Of the human being, as we said, the first body we can understand is our noetic body, which is a reflection of our spirit, ego, self, in form. It is still in the world of ideas, principles and causes. The reflections are giving us now the form dressed in the mind as the noetical body, having in it all our qualities as a thinking person and being to different things. So, thought is the product of the mind, how we are using the mind, but it is not ourselves who is behind to use the mind and manifest itself as a thought, and later as an emotion, as an intention. So, we return to the permanent atom, which is as small as the point, not the head, of a pin, yet as great as the universes. It is not a matter of size, it is a matter of quality, and on it they start building the bodies. So, in the permanent atom we will find our being-self and the equified Archangel, which is not our self and it is also our self, by oneness. So, in it there is everything related to our circle of possibilities. The circle of possibilities belongs to our being-self ego and to the Guardian Archangel. But what about the circles, the many circles of probabilities now, that belong to the Holy Archangels? And they are the judges, together with the Archangels of the Order, concerning the bodies of a human being, the noetical, the psychical and the material. So, now we have three bodies, which we can know and work with them. The material body, the so-called emotional or psychical body, because it is used more by the personality as a soul, and our noetical body, these three bodies. But they should have a connecting link between them, which is the more in which and by which they are built and they are sustained. So, what is that link which joins these bodies from above below? The so-called etheric doubles. So, we have an etheric double of the material body, we have an etheric double of the so-called psychical body and an etheric double of the noetical body. As we have three bodies, we have three etheric doubles. Now, the power, the force, the energy is on the etheric doubles and then on the bodies. The bodies are created by the etheric doubles. So, in the etheric doubles we have the total wisdom of the Almighty. And the Holy Archangels, building the bodies, are building them in and through the etheric doubles. Now, I'm not going to speak and say anything about the etheric doubles between the noetical body and the noetic, call it body. I'm not going to speak about the etheric doubles between the material body and the so- called psychical body or emotional body. But I'll speak about the relation between the material body and its etheric doubles, which really concerns us. The etheric double of our material body has the form of the human body intact, complete. It is the mould in which and through which the material body is built, from the spermatozoon to the old age. So, the etheric double of our material body, changing its appearance, not the human form, because the human form is in it, in all the stages of development, changing its appearance, constantly changing the appearance of the material body. So, through the etheric double of our material body, the Holy Archangels of the elements are working for the well-being of our material body. Every blood vessel, every little gland, everything existing in the material body, every just blood globule and anything is first created in the etheric double and then in the material body. So, as you have the general mould in which the whole material body is built up, have billions and billions of little moulds in which every molecule, every atom, every organ is to be built and sustained. Can you imagine this great work done? So many channels of creativeness by the Holy Archangels? Every hair, and Christ said, the hair on your body are counted and are developing each one with mathematical precision. That's the great truth. So, what is the form now of the permanent atom? Anything concerning the circle of possibilities of a human being. Life, the manifestation of life in a human form. Now we know that the human form is divine, not the creation of the mind or the creation of the Archangels, but it is in the multiplicity and the total wisdom of the absolute infinite beingness from which it comes down, not only for the human being, but for every form of existence and manifestation of life. Just imagine this great wisdom, total wisdom. Almightiness would sit perfect in the life of an amoeba and would sit perfect in the life of a galaxy. Perfect in which way? Motion, movement. Because everything existing is manifesting the unmanifested motion of the infinite beingness. So motion is the nature of life. Motion is in absolute infinite beingness. Motion without anything moving. Yet motion, the law. And then, because that motion is when something to be moving starts to exist, we see manifested the motion. Can we call motion the nature of the absolute infinite beingness? Yes? Can you understand life without motion? At least on the material plane and on anything else? Motion, not simply moving, changing the place of the material body, but as vibration, force, power, energy, and in the etheric double, the etheric vitality. Now, etheric vitality. So I see in this energy, in this kind of motion, life in it. Etheric vitality. Now, you would start to understand what is vitality. You can never see manifested vitality unless there is motion in it. Vibrations. No need to bother more about it because it's a very deep, deep problem which human mind cannot conceive. What is this kind of etheric vitality? Yet this etheric vitality is our life. The life of our material body and the life of our personality. Even so, yes, because even that is the mind in different frequencies of vibrations. Now, we can just speak much about what we call vibrations, frequencies of vibrations, energy and all that without exhausting this matter, even if volumes of books will be written. You ask me what do I know from my own experiences? Many, many things which cannot be expressed in words. Then, well, then, raise yourselves higher and higher and higher in what I call consciousness, self-consciousness, super-consciousness, because all these expressions of your being as a soul is nothing but vibrations. You are vibrating in time and in yourself, if not in what we call place or space. So, now have the vibration in time and place. You can have also vibration in yourself, in the kingdom of the heavens which is in yourself. Now, what are these kinds of vibrations? Kinds of vibrations to the outer world is in one direction, but these vibrations which are the vibrations of yourself now as a soul and being spirit is towards all directions and back again. You will not be able to understand that unless you experience that. Now, these kinds of vibrations of your present personality is giving you the impression through the five senses, seeing, you are seeing things. How you are seeing things? First of all, you understand the existence of things by seeing things, again through the third temple of your material body, through what I call the imprinting ether. So, you understand things, but you receive through the light the impressions from a certain distance from yourself. You simply interpret these vibrations, these frequency of vibrations you call ether and sight somewhere in a place of your material brains. You have given these lessons before. You see a lovely tree full of fruit, flowers, birds flying in it. When you go away from it to some distance, you will see it smaller, with less details on it. You go far away, you see just like a greenish spot there. You will not even say if it is a tree or something else, but it will give you strong lenses, a telescope, seeing, you will see as if it is very near you. You can see the flowers and the fruit in it, even the birds in the branches. Yet, it is very far from you. But you can see it in the same way as you will see it if you are there, which means seeing, you are just interpreting these etheric vibrations, which you call ether, carrying in it the surface of anything. It is striking and reflected from it. This is the conclusion. The sight of your soul being is not like that. You can be anywhere and see everywhere and receive impressions from everywhere. Now consider these two kinds of seeing, conceiving and understanding. I speak to you of my own experiences. The human being now sees through my eyes, because I can see much better than anybody else can see, though my material eyes are not so good now. Never mind, but I can see. When I was operated and I came out of my body, I could hear the doctor talking. I could see him working from where? Above, from every side, from inside, seeing what he was doing, knowing everything he was doing. What kind of seeing is that? Something else. I could magnify things if I wanted to see them bigger, which is an ability of the soul consciousness. Could I feel my material body? Now this is the most important point. If I wanted to, I could. But why should I feel the pain? How? By just putting in my material body, that part of my etheric double, I am calling it aesthetic ether. But the injections, or some other way, are driving away from the material body, not the etheric double, but that quality of the etheric double, which is what we call aesthetic ether, or feeling, giving ether. Because if the etheric double gets out of the material body as creative ether, then the material body starts decaying, dying. So never the etheric double can leave the material body, but certain qualities of the etheric double can withdraw and come back again. The kinetic ether can go out and come back again. The aesthetic or feeling ether can go out and come back again. The imprinting ether. When the imprinting ether was in reality in the etheric double and in the personality? Unless you use it yourself. But it needs deep thought to understand these differences. And the creative ether is never leaving the material body. So the etheric double is the creative ether, used by the Holy Spirit, the Locusts, and the Archangels. Now, seeing. Compare the seeing through the two eyes, just interpreting vibrations of light giving certain sensations in the centers of the material brain where there is darkness there. It is just a branch of study that is most, most interesting. But now consider what is the seeing. My own experiences I taught you. Out of the material body, seeing the doctor operating my body, taking things out in bowels with salt water or something like that. Not seeing from above, but from every side, inside, in my own bowels. What is this kind of sight? Much bigger. Better. So, who is seeing? The etheric double or me? Is seeing a product of what I call life in the material body or my own divine nature in seeing? Maybe you say both. To some extent, yes, but if you develop your self-consciousness higher, then you see that it's you and not the qualities of the mind, even as vitality. Now returning to our etheric double. The etheric double is the workshop of the Archangels in building and sustaining the material body. Molecule by molecule, organ, everything. It is the workshop. It is also the center to the personality of what I call the subconsciousness, the argumentor, just to study the nature of the subconsciousness. Daskalos-Dec-14-1992-B-Being-Human Now, what is this sub-consciousness? Is this sub-consciousness our own self? And yes and no. This sub-consciousness is just the place where it stores all our experiences as a personality. It's not our self. But we can use it. We can see it. We can enter in it. Examine what is going on in it. And cause changes. The first, as I said in many lessons, thing that a fellow should just develop in himself or express fully is what we call observation, which is our divine nature, this observation. So when starting, starting all these things, we should be careful that nothing, nothing at all should escape our attention. This way we express really our self-consciousness. So in this way, observing things, we know what is in these things. Who knows now? We. Who we? So we are not the mind. We are using to know things, but we are different from the means we are using to know. And we enter in another place. Are we the consciousness? We can study by observation and meditation and introspection all the expressions of our personality as sensitivity, sub-consciousness, instinctive kind of consciousness, waking consciousness, consciousness and then self-consciousness. From this moment we are certain that we are not the consciousness. The consciousness is simply the way we express ourselves. It is not our self before expressing the self-consciousness. Even self-consciousness now calling that kind of time and place based self, which is the self of the personality. We make the mistake to think that that kind of self-consciousness is our real nature and our real self. Observing by raising to higher levels this kind of so-called self- consciousness, we see we can express ourselves as self-superconsciousness. Therefore we are not even the self-consciousness, because we see that we are living behind that personality of ours, which is a creation of circumstances, time, place and way of thinking and way of living. Yet what do we find there? I am not that expression of myself having a name, a form, a body. Yet I have the form, not the form of the material body. Who am I then? Changing or raising our consciousness to higher levels, we change the view and just the point from where we see things. And we see that we receive things from outside, not from our real self, in ourselves, trying to understand things and interpret things. Even in the so-called self- superconsciousness, we are not in ourselves yet. But gradually starting the introspection and looking within and now understanding the instructions of the God-man, who was perfect God and perfect man, talking to us about the kingdom of the heavens, which is in us, in our being-self, we can see that we express now a kind of different self- superconsciousness. Which are the qualities of this kind of self-superconsciousness? Getting the power and the skill of attunement. Sticking on something and getting whatever that something is offering us, offering to our consciousness. Many times we have spoken about this thing we call attunement, but who had entered in the meaning of attunement? By having this and getting the skill of attunement, in one single moment you can know many, many things that through other means of observation you cannot have in studies in years and years in front of you. What is this ability in just receiving things and knowledge of things in an instant, which you would need hours and years to take? You are expressing our divine nature as gods. We can develop in us to some extent omnipresence. What were the instructions of Joshua Manuel de Christ, the God-man, to us? First of all, he said that we are gods and sons of the Almighty, offsprings of the Almighty. He didn't use the word son, he said the offsprings of the Almighty. And what else? Knowing who we are. That means extending our selfhood beyond time and a certain place. And the limitations of what our way of living is giving us now. I tell you that this is splendid. Just starting feeling that we are not mortal animals, you start knowing what is life, what is the value of life. What you are as gods, what is God-divine. Things that we think are very, very important in life, activities, way of acting and doing this and that, is not so important as we think it is. There are still much more important things than motives, intentions and the way we are living. Yet, it doesn't mean that we don't have to do what we call destiny, call it karma if you like, the Hindu expression. It places us now, here, to learn the next lesson. And we cannot learn the next lesson as human beings. To realize what we are as soul beings unless we are faithful and exact to what we have to do today, now. So, we are not going to abandon our daily duties. Because that's the way through which we will develop our so-called consciousness to self-consciousness. Some would say, yes, now I see the truth, yes, I see something more of the truth. Again, the relative truth. And all these things are not important. No, that's a mistake. We are here because the divine intelligence placed us here to get our next lesson. We cannot turn our back to what we have to do today. Today we have to do certain things. The only thing we can have is just to ask the absolute infinite intelligence to guide us according to your will. Your will be done. And then we just start to study. What do we want to do? What do we have in our mind to do? And what we are allowed to do, not what we want to do will be done, but His will be done. Because as Joshua Emmanuel said, not even a leaf is falling from a tree unless that's the will of God. And when Pontius Pilate said to Christ, don't you know that I have the power and the authority to set you free or send you to death, that you have nothing on me unless it is given to you from above. So everything which takes place in all the worlds of existence is in the divine plan. And we, gods and humans, are entrusted by the absolute infinite intelligence certain things to make use of them. Use of them in what way? To feel ourselves happy and make others happy. That's life. This is what we should have in our mind. Not to be egoistic, to think, no, this is what I want to be done. If we see that it is not possible to be done, it means that it is not the will of God to be done. But it doesn't mean that we should not ask God. We are divine, but it's God who is to decide. Thy will be done. That's definite. Yet, what did Joshua Emmanuel the Christ say for that to His disciples? Seek the kingdom of the heavens and everything will be given to you. Asking and seeking for material things, they may be given to you. Because he said, who is the father? When his child will call him, give him a piece of bread, will give him a stone. Or, I would like to have a fish, will give him a snake. And if you, human beings, most cunning, can give good things to your children, what about your heavenly father? What will he give to you? So everything is in the gospel. So we can ask. And Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you, even the kingdom of the heavens. But, thy will be done. If we ask for something, that will be given to us, definitely. But not in the time we want, in the time the heavenly father feels that he will not have it now. But when he grows to become a man, he needs to share, he will give him all. Now you know, now it's the time to have it. Not the time you want to have it. So we should not be naughty children. Ask, of course. But we are not to decide when it's he, the heavenly father. So, nothing we can do, never mind how rightly we may think and like it, unless it is the will of the infinite intelligence. This is what everybody should have in mind. But that doesn't mean that we should not seek perfection. And the instructions of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said it clearly. Be ye perfect, as perfect as your heavenly father. That's an instruction and an encouragement. We can be. So, we have now to see what is our nature. What is the nature of human beings all around us? What can be our relations to the other human beings? The center of everything is not our self. Everybody is thinking that the center of creation of everything is his most unimportant personality. This is what we call the egoism of the personality, which will disappoint everybody. So we must consider ourselves not unimportant, but important to the extent of finding the same importance in everybody else. New instruction I give you, not commandment, that you love one another as I love you, not less. So if you bring other human beings to your level, in value, whom? Every other human being as a god. Then you will understand the value of life. Then you regulate your activity towards the others. Thought about the self of the present day personality, pleasure as a reward. Forget that. This may be the last blow you have to give to the personality's egoism. One should forget himself as a person, so that he will find out who he is as a soul, ego being. The one who loves his soul, meaning the personality, will definitely lose it, said Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. And the one who hates it, hates just the way of life one is living, will save his soul, self, by knowing that I am not all that. I am not that way of life myself, but I am life itself and not the expressions in life. Now these things everybody should consider in introspection, looking within and asking the help of his god and angel. The god and angel of each one of us is near us, ready to interfere. If we ask help to think, day and night you are talking to your god and angel without understanding it, thinking that you make a kind of monologue with yourself. That's not. Because the time you are doing something and it's wrong, then you say, no, no, I think that's wrong. It is the interference of your god and angel within you saying that. Many, many times each one of us have heard this interference of our, let us call him divine brother, the holy archangel, in us and with us. I would say that sometimes this holy archangel is giving a very bad blows, which are called stings of consciousness. If one is overdoing it in his relations towards the other human beings, in hating, envying or doing something wrong, then that fellow gets some very hard blows from his guardian angel. I repeat it, I call that stings of consciousness. And to these stings, when you feel them, give attention. That the time you find out that you are never alone. Whatever a fellow is doing, thinking is known to his guardian angel and to god. To god in himself. Because our real self, the spirit echo being is god and one in god and one with god. Two different meanings. So, tomorrow the lesson will be more on the use of the mind. Of course on elementals, but from a different point of view. Starting the subconsciousness and our emotions. How these emotions are created and how we, as a person and as a soul, have seen them and regarded them. Now we will make an exercise. Relax completely. Your body should be completely relaxed. From toes to the head. Feel that you are relaxed. And feel that you, as life and even as a present day personality, you are in your body. Life is motion. You can be in the head, on the tip of your nose if you like to concentrate. On any of the two ears. In the eyes. On the shoulders. Breathing in the lungs. You can move about in your material body by concentrating on these points. You, on the hands, fingers. On your belly. On your knees, on your thighs, on your feet, everywhere. That's the place you can move about for the time being. You, as a personality, self, ego. Yet expressing the egos. You are a feeling entity. You are feeling. You are using now, subconsciously, the feeling giving ether or the aesthetic ether, using the Greek word. You feel. You are living. You feel any member of your body by concentrating on it, yet you are feeling you are you who are feeling it. Just see these things from these two points. Feeling the organ. You are concentrating on and feeling yourself feeling it. So, feeling the organ. You are changing the point of attention. But you are never changing the point of your personality beingness. So you have a steady point, you. You have another point of concentrating your attention, which is anything and any point you are concentrating on. I will not elaborate more on it, on external things. But in your body now. You are concentrating now on the tip of your nose. Feel it. Feel the tip of your nose. And if you cannot feel it, touch it with your finger to feel it. Feel the tip of your nose. Concentrate only there. Feel your lungs in your chest. Breathe. It's easy now to feel it. Breathe deeply and feel the air filling your lungs. You have moved in another point from which you get impressions. Your lungs, which is not now the tip of your nose. Feel your two eyes. If you cannot feel them, I think you can easily feel them. Because there is much etheric vitality in it. Touch them with your fingers. But you can feel them. Feel the eyes, the eyeballs in there. Feel them. You are you, always the same. Yet the point you are concentrating on is different. It is your eyeballs now. Now breathe and be in your lungs again. That's you. The same you. Yet you are changing the focus of concentration. Now feel you are in your belly. It's not difficult just to feel you are there. Move it. You can move your belly. Feel there. You are always you. The one who concentrates. Yet you are changing the point of concentration. Feel your knees now. You cannot feel them, just touch them with your hands. Feel your knees. You are you all the time. Yet you are changing the point where you are concentrating. Feel the toes now. Move them if you like. In your shoes. You are in your body. Now breathe deeply and with comfort. Be in your lungs. You are not breathing only the air and oxygen. You are breathing also the etheric vitality. It's not necessary only with breathing to fill yourself with that etheric vitality. But it's a means of just filling your body. And you are etheric double with the etheric vitality by breathing. Breathe and now visualizing, seeing through your imprinting ear. Every breath to fill the whole body with this etheric vitality. The air cannot go everywhere outside of your lungs. Yet this etheric vitality can go everywhere. Not only in your body. But now we want it in your body. Now filling the whole body and breathing. See with your imprinting ear, with your mind, with your thought. That a white light is in the air you are breathing. Filling the whole body with a white mist of light. Doing so you will feel a vibration in your body. Try to feel that vibration all through your body. In all your body. This vibration is the etheric vitality vibrating. You can feel your material body through your etheric double with this etheric vitality. In this way you get the skill as your personality to concentrate and feel itself. Never mind not the real self yet, it is the personality self. But you start from that making you understand who you are. At the beginning as a personality. A name, male or female or like that. But that's the way you have just to exhaust our work until you reach your real self. To reach what I call self-realization. But even you are present the personality. A man as a woman has in it the divine nature of your spirit, soul, being. To express itself better and better and give this skill to your present the personality self. This is the way to develop your present the personality. Of course. By knowing the one that self of yours. Never mind that is the personality or the soul. It's nature and getting the skill on concentrating on anything in the body at first. Then you will be able to concentrate on anything you like outside of your body. I mean that expansion of what I call your consciousness. That's not exosomatosis though, it is expansion. But it needs years and years of practice and introspection. To realize who you are as a personality, as a person living in the cross material world. Of course you have to learn the elementary school lessons before going to higher and higher schools. You cannot jump to a higher school unless you finish the elementary school. And the elementary school is just this kind of exercise we have to do in our material bodies. Later we'll have these exercises in and on our personality. Then we reach to what you call wisdom. And believe me when you reach to that stage of expressing your soul expressions. As attunement and later as adornment. As intuition. Then you will find yourself very proud. And know that you are not just like the animals around us in the animal kingdom. It is finding your way back home to your own nature. Daskalos-Jan-30-1990-A-Face-the-sun-of-truth Our father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. God of life, love and mercy, enlighten our minds to understand your truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We said that everything existing in the universes, the material universe, the planet, satellite, solar system, all solar systems, galaxies, these are the material universe. Everything existing in the so-called psychical universe, the psychical parts of everything material, and everything existing in what we call the analytical universes, are mind. And you have mind solid as matter and everything material. We have mind as matter and substance. It is the etheric part of our planet, which of course is not the psychical plane. We have the so-called psychical worlds. Every material thing has a psychical counterpart. We have the planet, and the planet has its etheric part, counterpart, and a psychical plane. All heavenly bodies have their psychical bodies. But the psychical bodies of the heavenly bodies do not touch each other. As every human being has his psychical body, and is not in direct contact with the psychical bodies of the others, so the psychical bodies of the heavenly bodies we call planets. Then you have the mental, mind, logic universe. This is what I call substance. Now, the galaxy has its noetic body, therefore everything existing in the galaxy, in any galaxy, are floating in this noetic body of the galaxy. This is what I call supersubstance and substance. And of course we have space. There in space we have the so-called supersubstance formless, and everything is mind. So we have mind as supersubstance, as substance, and as matter. Everywhere is mind in this stage. And everything existing is mind and from the mind. But mind is not God. We must have this in our mind. So what exists, exists now, exists and will exist, is mind. What is eternally, is life. What you call God, we call it absolute beingness. So we find absolute beingness, its multiplicity, being's eternal, everlasting, God's life. The characteristics of these beings and of the absolute beingness is life. And God exists, which are the phenomena of life. If life was not, nothing living would exist. This is obvious. Wherefrom did life come then? So we have the absolute beingness in its multiplicity. What are we as human beings? An eternal being is self-consciousness, our I-ness, our ego, eternal God. Life, everlasting life. And we exist as human beings. Now in the world of existence, but to exist we are in need of the mind. You said everything existing is the mind. And the mind is everywhere. Shall we say that the mind is what we call the will of God? Yes. Because otherwise how would we understand what is the will of God? Unless manifested. And the mind is the means of the manifestation of life, to create the universes, all the universes. And everything existing. So the characteristics of the mind, or the nature of the mind, is the will of God. But the will of God is not God. Divine, yes, but not God. So, how can we know the mind? By using it, of course. How can we otherwise know the mind? We. Who we? Are we the mind? Or something different from the mind? Which will use the mind? From this point we understand that we are not the mind. Apart from that, we get the mind. You said that the mind is everywhere, of course. And within us, and in us. No, it's different, within us and in us. What do I mean, within us? Within our existence. Our existence is our pneumatic body, our psychical body, the etheric doubles, and the material body. Of course it is within us, within these bodies. What do I mean, in us? Us now, not as human beings. As spirit, ego, self-superconsciousness, life. And since the mind is the characteristic and the nature of life, it's our nature. So the mind is in us. It is the expression of our beingness. So I have mind in two states now. Our nature and what we get from outside. In us. Some make the mistake to think that they are strangers to the mind, and the mind is entrusted to them, because we say, give us this day our daily bread. Yes. Our daily bread. What does it mean, our daily bread? It is ours. Ours. So, the nature of our I-ness, our ego, spirit, self-superconsciousness, is life and mind expressing the life. That's the first principle of our coming from life to the world of the phenomena as a phenomenon of life. This is the reason. So, now we will study mind. Who? We. Now, we'll study the mind. We'll study that it exists around us, everywhere, and in us as our nature. Who and how? Who will study the mind now within the present-day personality? Is the nature of the present-day personality the mind? No. Unless the present-day personality will realize and feel her I-ness as God. As bodies? No. The bodies are created by the mind. It is the creation. That's why our bodies are not ourselves. They are ours. Yes. Given to us. We didn't build them. We are not looking after them. We can call them ours by grace and mercy. Not by right yet. So, who will study now God's mind? The present-day personality. Is the present-day personality able to use the mind and through the mind find herself, know herself, and then go inwards to know her real self? The present-day personality. Of course. Because you are not simply the creation. Can the material body do that as a material body? No. The material body, though built up most wisely by the total wisdom of the Holy Spirit, is a creation. Only the material body cannot do that. The material body is to be composed and sometimes decomposed. The phenomenon we call death. Our bodies are born and are dying, not we. Even as the present-day personality. So, now, who is going to study mind as matter? We as the present-day personality. A scientist, man or a woman. A mystic, as a man and a woman, shall study the material body. I said, I say scientist, man or a woman. And as a mystic, either a man or a woman, what is a scientist doing? Studying matter and the material body. Mind solid. Yes. When one, as a scientist or as a mystic, studies his material body or her material body, what a present-day personality, a man or a woman, finds out by this study? Two things. That the material body in which that present-day personality is living is unknown to her. And she has to study it, investigate and find out what it is. So a scientist is doing, a mystic also is doing. But the mystic does not remain with the material body. Only he goes further. To find himself and understand himself. Now we study the material body as a scientist. We have yet much, much more to learn. By what? Meditation alone? Concentration? No, by observation, leading to the knowledge. That's why I give so much attention to this word observation. You say, but is observation not meditation? Meditation may be observation to some extent. But observation means much more than meditation. So, what's the result of it? The present-day personality starts subconsciously to trace herself and know now, externally, what is the object of study. Because if you put the question, who are you? Who now are thinking and observing and trying to know this or that? That is what it is. I do that. The body? You are studying the body, so that you know what is the body. And you know very little about it. Of course, by observation and constant meditation, now as a mystic, using another way than the orthodox science instruments in the laboratories and in factories, you tend to know the nature of matter and your own nature. These are two different ways of study which one should use. Again, either as a scientist or as a mystic. So, what is the difference between these two? In reality, there is no difference when their observation, meditation, reaches the knowledge of the truth. Before that, maybe they fight. You are using egoists, as a scientist, I know more, yet every day dropping down theories to replace them, and as, say, a mystic or fanatic or religious man, using what I call superstition and fanaticism. Both are wrong. But one day they will meet, if they are serious researchers after the truth. A researcher after the truth is a scientist and a mystic. This is the truth. So, now we shall present the personality. Our ego, I-ness, thinking that itself is a body, in a male or female body, starts studying the matter. As regards the material world, the material body, by meditation, observation. What a researcher after the truth now. Leave aside the orthodox science and the laboratories and the other means they are using and instruments. Now we go to the other side. As a researcher after the truth, our present personality, man or a woman. After exhausting his attention on the body and in the body, the workings of the various instruments and this and that, you must reach certain conclusions. The right ones at the beginning. No. He or she will make many, many mistakes before understanding the relative truth. Yet, using the mind, because these are the means to be used, now as thought, meditation, observation, concentration, can go through the mistakes and find the relative truth. Relative truth, not the truth. Of course not the truth. Because you said the truth is beyond the words of the manifestation. The relative truth. Yes. It is what is given by what we say, conception and understanding, and believe me, you have to pierce through the many, many illusions. In the material world, in the psychical world and in the medical world. But yet, that I- ness, that ego, even as a present personality, by constant observation and serious thinking, can pierce the veil of illusions. Of the material world, of the psychical world and of the medical world. And face now the sun of truth. Face the sun of truth. Who is? Where? Will she stand in a place and see a sun in front of her? And say, that's the sun of the truth. No. Looking in, in the heavens, the kingdom of the heavens within us, you will find that I am the truth. Ich bin die Wahrheit. Did I say that correct? Not by seeing something else, but through at-one-ment, becoming one with the Self. But now, this is the final note. We have to go down to the present-day personality. What are we? We are a composed being of God. We are an ego, I-ness, self- consciousness, spirit, self-super-consciousness, not. Consubstantial with the Father. Another better word. And, we are, and exist now, in the world of manifestation, as a soul. What is the soul now? Is the soul not the ego, spirit, self-super-consciousness? Yes. Definitely it is. In substance, yet in manifestation, that spirit, part of it, part of ourselves, has passed through the idea of man, in the total wisdom of the three-pig-ness. A state of the spirit, of the super-self-consciousness, before yet being humanized. Yes, we are this all. Ego, self-super-consciousness. And then, manifested through the locus, locally, and through the Holy Spirit, in power and might, become human. Dress ourselves with mind in the various vibrations. Have our neurotic body, our psychical body, and our material body, with the in-between, the etheric doubles. So, we, as human beings, though we are the likeness, and the image, of the infinite beingness, we are a creature, created, existing, in what we call, time and space. Space-place. We made clear in other lectures, what is space and what is place. So, now we start, as a present-day personality, to study the material body, and our existence now, as a living being, apart from the life of the material body. And I said in a lesson, all the bodies of men and all the bodies of women are the same. In the same way, built up by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels, and supervised by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels, kept in good health. Yet, we are something different. I said, never to men or to women, as present-day personalities, are the same. Now, again, our study, by observation, why? Why you are not the same? We see in a house, two girls and two boys, members of the same family, born in the same house, live in the same house, eat the same things, all of them, for years, brought up in the same way. Their bodies are fed by the same stuff, the same stuff. And we see them in an age so different. Why? Is the present-day personality the product of what we eat and what we drink? You see, two systems so different. And the two boys, two brothers, again so different. Why? You have to study that. This, why? Which means stepping a step forward, not studying the material bodies now, studying what I call the personalities, personality of each one, and quantify it, that both male or female members of the same family are expressing in a different way now, different vibrations of their psychical body. That means desires, emotions, likings, dislikings, reaching to the passions misunderstandings, understanding things. And this creates what we call quarrels. Quarrels, why? You must study this also, because in them all is created now in their present personality the desire of dominating, of having, of getting. Calling things mine, depriving them from the others. You can see that in all the families all around the world, in all countries. And how do we study that? All of them have the same apheteria, the desire of having, getting, presenting themselves. And then, in what way? All of them. Now we have to study these expressions of our present personality. Studying what we call our emotional body or the so-called psychical body. Again, by using the mind. It's not easy to do. I tell you, most difficult because on our ways we find our own psychical vibrations, our desires, emotions, liking and disliking and all that. So we have to do something now. Try to analyze our present personality, control our emotions, become masters of our emotions so that we'll be able free now to study what are emotions? What are desires? What is the effect of these emotions and desires in life? You have just to see that. The effect of all these desires is the creation of what we said are elementals. Desire thought forms or thought desire forms. How to study them? To study their nature and their quality and to what extent they are influencing us. Are these elementals dominating over us? Seeing people around us in all the communities we find that at least 80% of those people are slaves of these elementals, of theirs and of those elementals of others which vibrate to the same rate of vibration to their own elementals. So, there is a vast now field of study, meditation and observation. Try to understand what is that. What do we understand? That we have two kinds now of elementals. What we call the emotion thought forms and the pure thought forms with a little desire of knowing. And we see that our emotion thought forms are those forms that really dominate over us. What do we do? How do we project that? By enslaving thought, mind in a higher rate of vibration to become the servant of these emotions, of these desires for the fulfilment of these desires. These elementals are the elementals which Christ described and you find them in the New Testament, the Bible as spirits, void and meaningless yet most powerful. In one case, a group of these elementals calling itself legion who are torturing a poor fellow, throwing him down, having defeat of epilepsy. What do we find now studying things around us? That these elementals I said, the creation of certain people and other elementals, creation of other people vibrating to the same rate of vibration with those elementals dominate over the present-day personality. This of course a psychiatrist and psychotherapist must know as the fixed ideas most powerful even to lead a human being, a present-day person present-day personality to a mental hospital. I have just to read the nature of these elementals. Call them forces, if you like. Call them dirty energy. I have so many works even from psychiatrists and I was wondering how did they manage to create such works themselves. So, I have to study the nature of these elementals. And we find that our present-day personality as egoism not ego because it has nothing to do with your ego, your soul, self-consciousness is the sum total of these elementals. We call them good or bad. And what we have to do now as we said just after truth, one step forward. Not now as an ego with small letters of the present-day personality but now as an ego of our permanent personality or our soul consciousness. Now we are expressing the will to know to become the master of the situation before us the present-day personality who are accepting everything obeying to these elementals. Now, we want to control them, study them and free ourselves from these elementals. Therefore, we are not those elementals ourselves since we can replace them, study them and put another way, de-energize them and escape from their torturing influence. So again, we find ourselves now. We are not those elementals ourselves. We are not our egoism but we are a different entity now than the egoism. Now, we must study seriously all the faces of egoism. Many men faces. How many faces? It's expressing our real ego one. I am I. I am not my weakness of stealing and I am not the weakness of drinking. I am not the weakness of gambling. I am not the weakness of surrendering myself to sex. I am not that and that and that. Egoism will come with hundred faces but we have only our face. I am I. This is the difference between your I-ness, your ego and the egoism. You have to kill. Kill. Disenergize all the elementals of various natures composing it. They had the question from a fellow the other day from the Greek group. And what remains to us? You are taking this that and that and that and that so much even our weaknesses pleasing things and say I am I. What remains to us? The dignity of your I- ness is controlling all of that. You are not supposed by disenergizing the elementals no, to energize good ones. By punishing the devils not to have the company of creative angels. Now we are not creating elementals through our I-ness. Time and space emotions are through reason. So we have no new elementals. Those we call thought forms. Not emotional thought forms. We can just see the difference. The first class the emotional thought forms who are keeping us slaves keeping us as an egoistic slave of consciousness which we must get rid of. But now our new thought forms I can't call them our slaves though we would be their masters. Before we were slaves of those elementals but now I have them as angels I call them creative thought serving their masters. are masters. That means our I-ness our real self deprived of egoism are not going to treat them as servants and slaves but as our own expression. Now you must reach to this state to understand the difference. You cannot understand it unless you live in this state of things. And then becoming the masters of matter becoming the masters of the emotions becoming the masters of thought you clean that field of your present personality called your sub consciousness. Now you know what is sub consciousness. The sum total of your elementals good or evil is your sub consciousness. Is that all? Not all. If we call it a storehouse in one part of this storehouse the substance of the mind in all its rates of vibrations kept by the archangels and the Holy Spirit is accord the etheric vitality from which the etheric body provides the energy the etheric substance that means pure mind in all the rates of vibrations. You understand? Our sub consciousness known well known to the archangels and the Holy Spirit yet is our nature as present the personality. Do we have access to the other side of the mind used by the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit? No. But all the time the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit are providing us with our daily bread from this storehouse of pure substance and super substance we call mind. Though as a present-day personality one feels exhausted, tired, chased out of the material body so that time will be given to the Holy Archangels and the Holy Spirit to repair the damages in the material body. This is the meaning of sleep only. Yet all things, damages in the material body, even wounds, tend to be cured by the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. So, we should by observation and meditation to see these things and study them. In this way, we come in touch with the builders or workers in our bodies, the material body, the psychical body, and the enochic body. Daskalos-Jan-30-1990-B-Face-the-sun-of-truth So, by observation and meditation in the work which is done in the material bodies, we can know the work of the holy archangels, Michael, Gabriel, Raphael and Uriel. The three are the lords of the elements, fire, water and ether. Uriel is the balancer. Now, matter, cross matter as we see, is not supervised by an archangel, but by an angel. This angel is Samael. And Samael is not devil or the evil one. Though, that angel is working in the world of separateness. What does it mean, Samael, in the old Egyptian language and also in Sanskrit? El means caught. Sham means delight. A, caught, without being expressed. And then El, expressed, which means Lucifer. So the word Samael means Lucifer. Yet, Lucifer is an archangel, or rather a group of archangels called Lucifers, projecting Samael. Now, where in the world of opposites, we meet what we call the idea of evil, is another matter to be studied. So, by observation we see what is taking place in our material bodies. By studying what is dreamless sleeping during the night, then returning back to our material body to wake up and be what we were before, going to sleep, and seeing that the material body is now in a better position to use it, we would be wondering, in our absence from this body, in a state which seemed to us rather as annihilation, but it was not so. These workers were doing their work in our material body. Wounds were cured. So, we must just observe this work of the holy archangels in our material body. Now, if a present-day personality, an Highness, now decides to analyze head behavior, meaning studying impulses, desires, emotions, study them, find their nature, and what they do to that present personality, most of the time torturing her. The present-day personality is tortured by its own creations. Then, we start now, cleaning our so-called psychical body, or seeing in our subconsciousness, because this subconsciousness, or the present-day personality, is the sum total of these elementals. So, we are not those elementals, since we can study them, and replace them, or dis-energize them. We are not these elementals. I say again, subconsciously we trace our nature, the thinker. So, is our subconsciousness, our psychical body, of course it is, yet something more. The psychical body, yes, is part of our subconsciousness, but we have our noetic body also. How can we define this subconsciousness of ours? Is our subconsciousness our present- day personality? No, it is the expression of our present-day personality and its creations, because our present-day personality, using the word I am, is not the elementals. We have to make a distinction now. But each expression, using the mind, not in the right way, it is our subconsciousness. And we said in a lesson, the sum total of these elementals, good or evil, composes our present-day personality. And our present-day personality is the subconsciousness. Yes, but in that present-day personality, we find the I-ness, which is not the subconscious. Can you come and see? Yes. Of course, that I-ness, my ego, now we trace the egoism again from another side. Yes, you are not your egoism. You are a different being than the ego. And the ego is not a being. It is an existing... let me call it devil, group of weaknesses and mistakes. Yet, these elementals of ours, now created by the present-day personality, under the influence of the already existing egoism, are things, or living things. Two of these elementals possess energy, which you can call it a kind of life, yet it isn't life. It is an expression of life. How? Because they can use, what do you call it, vibrations, motion and energy. Yes. Each elemental, good or bad, possesses energy and intelligence according to the intelligence of its creator. And the sum total of these elementals are forming our egoism. That's why our egoism presents itself as ourselves in a very cunning way, to deceive even our I-ness that it is our self, while it isn't. So we have, by observation, meditation, concentration, trace things and disentangle ourselves from its shadow. Don't think that the egoism, the sum total of these elementals, does not know what we are after now to do. It will counter it in a wise way. So don't think it's very, very easy to dominate over your egoism. It needs much attention and observation. I call it introspection, looking within. I said that our system is the best because our system gives this way of tracing and knowing which you don't find in other kinds of meditation, which is going round and round and round in the subconsciousness, round and round, in that subconsciousness of ours, without coming to an end. So we need a right system going straight to the point and expressing our willpower, authorizing the present-day personality to use that willpower to win the battle. There is no other way. That's why I insist that the system we are using is the most effective, coming to a real goal. So, we find now ourselves slowly, slowly entangled from our elementals or our present- day personality. And now we know that our present personality, material body, the psychical body and the nautical body are the means of expressing ourselves where? In the material world as a material body and as emotions and thoughts, yet express ourselves independently in what we call the psychical world, through our psychical body. Then later, masters of the mind express ourselves as self-consciousness in the nautical world. Now from this point of view we get a kind of mastership. Now, we know what self- realization is. Now we know who we are. And find that what we thought we were, we were not that. It was a shadow. A shadow in time and space. In the mirror, I call matter, psychical matter, substance, and substance. And even in a clearer mirror, I call the mind. Body. So I become the master of these bodies. Who? Who am I now? Here is the point. We should partly go through it. Who am I? I'm afraid now we will dive into very deep waters. But we have to. Having a material body, I occupy some space. And I know myself as a material body. Yes. Even if I find myself in a psychical body, again, I have a body. I know it. Who am I now? Out of these bodies. And I see that beyond the inner body, I am a formless super substance. Super substance full of life. But I know that life through manifestation of life. The world of forms. I was quite satisfied in living in a material body, moving about in the material world of trees, houses, other people, tracing people. That was my life. As I call it life. By using a material body. The same thing I will do in the psychical world. Search for paradises. Yes. I have a body. Moving about. Then I put it in which body? Since your material body is lying on the bed sleeping yourself, yet others looking after that body. Circulation of the blood, metabolism, and all that. Who are you now? You are not the material body. Yet, you move about. The next day, when you come back to the material body, you say, I saw that lovely tree. Moving in nice gardens. Seeing the light. Seeing things. With which eyes? And who you were that moment moving in the psychical world? You. What are your characteristics? The characteristics in both the material world and in other worlds is the ability of getting impressions and studying them. In the material world we can get the habit of studying things by observation, I think. Yet, in the psychical world you find yourself in a state, you think, you are conscious of the world all around you. You see things. You move about. Yet, you take everything as it is. You observe that. Now, what are my characteristics of my nature in the material world? In observation. What does it mean, observation? Looking attentively. Fixing myself there to no more. Can I do that in the psychical plane? You have to develop it. By starting now in the material world, you are exercising then you find yourself quite awakened in the psychical world. Now, I know this place. Then you start to remember it is not the first time I see it. I have seen it. I have lived in it. You get this impression. That means slowly, slowly be reawakened in the psychical world. Not awakened, reawakened. Then coming back, you can remember everything. In the course of time, there will not be the gap of forgetfulness or thinking you have entered in a state of nonexistence and then existing again. But you pass out. In the same way, consciously, you can open the door and from the other room of the house step to the other room of the house. This, I call self-conscious exosomatosis. And one has to gain it. Did Christ teach that? The self-conscious exosomatosis? Yes. He said to his disciples, some of you will not taste death. What did he mean? The material body wouldn't die. Some of you, who? You. Now, when you have for the first time the conscious, self-conscious exosomatosis and find yourself in the psychical plane and self-consciously come back again without breaking the consciousness, you laugh. No. That material body will die. Nothing more to me than an overcoat. I can take it off, hang it there and I can put it on any time I like. That's not me. When you do it in what I call the second exosomatosis, getting out of your psychical body but you cannot do that before you become the masters of emotions and desires because the vibrations are keeping you slaving it. When mastering this psychical body, it's as if after taking away your overcoat, now you take your coat. Remaining with the rest things. Then you realize that I am not my bodies. If I put you the question what is death now? You'll say the body dying means nothing to me now. And if the body is supposed to die not sending me anymore I'm not entering that once again. Now, you are returning in your body and you feel just that relief and the pleasure will came back. It's up to you from where you came back. Do I woke up? Yes. If you advance and know the other words coming back it is as if returning back to your cellar in the prison. Because life in the material body in comparison to the life in the psychical world and in the nautical world it's very very poor. You have to move about the material body heavy in the same way a tortoise is carrying its shell. Yet you do it and you have to do it. And love this kind of life in the material world. So finding who you are our ego self-super- consciousness the self-consciousness is in need of a form to be the life itself. Jumping from the phenomenon of life into the life. No. It's not in need of any form. Can it get its form back? This equation put to me by a fellow of the inner most circle. Of course you can get it back anytime you like. You can give it up and have it back anytime you like. Not only that but you find something else now. In the world of forms well I can enter in the world of ideas all the ideas which are lost causes and the forms are effects. Can I use any other form? And experiment through that form? Thought form. To know more about that form? Yes. You can. But you love this human form. You can just get any form as an ego I am I yet you love it. Now in the psychical world I use my form in a psychical body which is much much lighter than the material body. That's true. And you find it out when you live self-consciously there and study the laws there as we have the physical laws on our material plate you have them in the psychical world. You have them also in the ethical world. Yes. You can live there better than you live in Cyprus. In Cyprus I live in the material world yet. But now we said everything is mine. In the material world I am using the mind. In its combinations combination of the elements like that I have matter, solid I have water I have all these things around and I will build a house definitely I must have a plan to build that house I must get materials and in the course of time with the help of others paying I build that house I call mine and I can live in it. This is what you call the cross material of the material plane of our Earth. In the psychical world I have mind now do I have it as solid mind liquid mind and all that I have in the material plane yes because all the worlds are governed by the elements and say an octave higher you have solids in the psychical world and everything we have in the material world but now mind there is more flexible it's not as mind matter of the material world a strong thought is building things there and you have them what you want you can see it you have it but is that real? why it isn't real? it is because there matter obeys different laws so by learning in the material world through meditation and visualization to create mental things consciously creating elementals you get the skill of using the mind in the psychical world in creating what you want to have so thinking and observing in this psychical world means having how do we know that? by living ourselves consciously there and by taking all those who are studying there teaching them the laws of those planes so what's life now? what are phenomena of life? you have phenomena of life in the material world you have phenomena of life in the psychical world many not one you have the phenomena of life in forms what is the form? is the form or the expression of the ideas necessary for the creation of the universes? yes of course it is and who are those workers using the mind in the various vibrations in building the universes and what exists in these universes then you come in contact with the work of the holy archangels the lords of the elements then you come to another form can i do the same thing? can i have what i call the creative thought? in the material world even? of course you can have it you had it and you lost it by doing bad use of it are we as we live on the material world caught in exile not all of us most yes are caught in exile in exile to learn and know what the mind does matter substance and super substance get their lesson of knowing the words of the creation this is the object of our coming in the material world learn things around us become masters of matter and realizing who we are because i said we are not what we think we are weak existences not beings yet living in bodies so now your answers your questions loudly there are people who are psychic what psychic what does it mean they are psychic the door to the psychic world is open yes what do you propose that they can close that door and get stable no first of all we must see what we mean by psychic what is psychic have emotions and knowing them and feeling what people are called psychic are some sensitive people to certain vibrations of the psychic world well this is very common now in our century well this is just a cause to excite them to study these things what does it mean be psychic of course they should study it now and what will be their gain by being psychic they find the way easier but many of them don't like it why they don't like it it's not um yeah look here if in an incarnation you want to have something it's not given to that incarnation and then we forget what we wanted to have and another incarnation it's given to us why should it frighten us since we wanted it and nothing is given to us unless we want it well shall I call them naughty children asking for something when having it they don't feel the pleasure of having it it's something like that it's better that they will study what they gained in reality more than just being a little bit sensitive for feeling other things that would come they say they have the instinct of feeling something will come and it comes but what they it's the first step only yes this is just the means to excite their taste to see more and more and let them be afraid of it in the beginning yes how do I know or how do I recognize the elementals that come towards me and also of course I would have the corresponding vibration that I would have this element on me so how do I recognize that corresponding vibration in me now all elementals have their qualities they have their qualities their nature how do you recognize an elemental coming to you by feeling it by creating in you its vibrations for example you see something an elemental of theft let us say so is just to get it you see that thing then you feel phew I want to have it but shall I get it or leave it there call it temptation if you like you can rather have it no I must have it taking it like that means stealing it do you catch that vibration no that is not true for every desire that comes to you you are under the influence of a certain elemental of that kind therefore what happens stop either accept it which becomes slave of that elemental or say no that is rejected rejected now it comes again with much more force but I want it I should like to have it or send it away that comes back therefore your ego is besieged because it vibrates through the pressure yes but why not have this and that and that and that and that and that and that no I should do it by fighting it you become its slave you will do it because you have the elemental and your ego is alive now to defeat it get it interested no when I saw I need it I don't need it and thinking soberly what do I find that by having it because I now that elemental vibrating inside me will give me this energy I see by being disinterested get it that elemental point and this is for everything else and smoking gambling many many things but it is not difficult just to recognize the nature of an elemental coming to you because you sit reflected in if you accept it you are responsible for accepting it you are not responsible for coming but for accepting it if it is energy that comes from you you are free from it so we can disenergize all kinds of element by feeling we are not interested in that anymore anymore because maybe you have been interested in less of it before this is the way of disenergizing any element which means uprooting from our subconsciousness certain parasites but now again you have to put in the place something better don't leave the space empty find the contrary element and create a new element and plant it there so it's not just that temptation of having that thing by all means never matter what will follow by planting contrary element oh to have the means to give the pleasure of having it to somebody else i wanted to have it maybe you see other people doing that maybe you can afford some money buy it too and give it to somebody else you understand what i mean after uprooting an element of any nature create an element of the opposite nature and plant it there so that you are not leaving your subconscious empty space why because if you don't do that that will come again and again and again and claim to dominate over it now you have given it pleasure yes there's another part to this question you said yesterday that the only elemental with your own vibration can come back to you yes this i understand but what is in the case of black magic or somebody who puts a curse on you of black magic yes yes how come can that element still damage you do you have the same vibration or how does that work or how can you protect yourself not necessarily to be one black magician everybody is practicing subconsciously black magic that's why that's why christ said don't desire what belongs to your neighbor he didn't say don't desire something like that of your neighbor because everybody is practicing if i don't call it black magic brown magic next a black magician is practicing such elements for certain purposes black black magic means killing somebody yes for example i mean that suppose somebody wants to kill somebody who is a black magician there are ways which better not describe here we can do it so an elemental call it evil will go to that person will strangle that person if that person vibrates in the same rate of vibrations he will have it and it is a scheme but even so that element doubles itself in striking and it turns back to the black magician or to the one who has pain so nobody is escaping his evil action the black magician no so if the other fellow is in a scenario they will strike on him and the rebound will come back to the black magician it is as if you have a solid wall and you throw something and it comes on your head if it is soft it will pierce him so the best shield against black magic is a clean and pure heart and love to god and to man this is just the best shield now it is not only black magic maybe you love someone who is living a most life you want to catch him but he is living his life to take his lessons you see him you call him evil people are calling him evil and i love that man or woman relative or stranger it doesn't matter what you do you create an element a blessing which is subconsciously done going to him or consciously create a kind of guardian angel guardian angel elemental not the guardian angel given to azimuth from god to be equified with him it is very different between the guardian angel and the elemental guardian again angel so you set that element that element of course to him he doesn't find now the opportunity to catch him because he doesn't vibrate to the level vibrations of that angelic element will he come back to you again according to the law it doubles itself leaves there a part of itself and that blessing comes back to you and the cases so the blessings come back to you and that will remain on him waiting for every time that he will vibrate in a better way to benefit himself when maybe after six months a year two years another incarnation so any elemental will not disenergize itself by itself unless it fulfills its purpose for which it has been created and then automatically it disenergizes itself so with disenergizing is too many either with disenergizing or after accomplishing its purpose good or evil it is self disenergized so of course this needs very less to explain about this element but this element are our daily life and you should be very careful of the quality of this element composing our present life and so on yes did I satisfy you lovely people it's a long time we want to shoot this question come on do it after all what is a dream a dream yes yes there are many many kinds of dreams definitely there cannot be any dream unless you have this experience in your subconscious you never see things you don't know which are the quality of the present day personality outside of the material body and it draws this kind of dreams which vibrate to that personality so what a dream you will see we said that all elements get a form whether you know it or not any thought and then if desire creates a form Daskalos-Jun-2-1992-A-The-Way-Home Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. The lesson today for those who want to get out of the confusion and know the truth should be most precious. This lesson today is based on my own experiences. And of course, these experiences coincide with the teachings of great, great ones who had lived in past centuries. In the teachings of Buddha, of Confucius, of all mystics in Egypt, in other countries. And it's confirmed by the Godman, Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, our Lord. All this teaching is included in the New Testament. Teaching. It means nothing unless this teaching should become your way of life. It's not enough just reading, even acknowledging that this is the truth, and nothing more than that. Now what I will say, I say again it is my own experiences, and it will be your own experiences sooner or later. Because there is no other way coming back to our real self, finding our real self. So the way is using the mind in the proper way and investigating the truth. Of course, there are many, many other pathways which other great ones have shown. But all those pathways are leading us to the same goal, which is to find out what we are and who we are. What is life? And especially it will be answered the question until this moment that really makes people wonder, what's God? Who is God? Everybody, I say sooner or later, will have these experiences. Because it is the attraction that our real self has to undergo by our divine absolute nature. We are living now as human beings. For how long? Just as human beings for a good number of centuries. Yes, but how long? We have to find our way back to our real divine nature, which is our real self. Is it easy to do it? Of course, in the way we have entangled our petty time and place little self, which is not really our self, with all those interests building a present-day personality with its egoism, it isn't so easy. We have to take off all those clothes which are covering us and find now the mind, pure mind, a super substance, as the perfect mirror in which we will see ourself. Now, basically, we know that what is, always was, and always will be, is the absolute, infinite, let us call it reality, beingness, selfhood, God, unmanifested, incomprehensible, but it is the reality. So, this absolute, infinite selfhood and beingness is and exists, because we have just to study the two natures of this absolute, infinite beingness, its divine, unmanifested self in its self-sufficiency, and also must study now its nature in its multiplicity, expressing what we say, the real pleasure of manifesting itself in itself by the beings, billions and billions and billions, big old number beings, immortal gods. There is only one God, God the Father, but there are similar beings in it, which are the holy archangels, our brethren. So, in the absolute, infinite beingness, in the absolute, infinite selfhood, these beings are exactly, by what we call atonement, the same as the absolute, infinite beingness. So, we cannot distinguish them. They are one, but this is rather difficult to understand it, as long as you are under the pressure of the world of separateness. But you may understand, of course, it is, if you reach that state of atonement or oneness with the absolute reality, and the absolute, this brethren of us, the holy archangels of the elements. Now, so, as human beings, we can know nearly nothing about the incomprehensible state of the absolute, infinite beingness, even about our divine state as spirit beings, but we can know much using the mind, the super substance of the mind, knowing what is this mind in all its frequencies, and by that seeing how the holy archangels are using this mind in creating the universes. All the universes. How many? Human beings cannot know much, but we can trace at least seven heavens. We can trace seven universes, and we can find ourselves in these universes, and now realize what we are. I'm telling you, you are not just a mass of matter living in the human form only, just a living being, a phenomenon of life, like all the other animals all around you. We are God's sons of the Almighty. These are the sayings of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. These were the words of all those great ones who had lived in past centuries, but it's not just only to know that. By hearing what we are taught or what we have read, just read in books, you must find it, and Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said it clearly, know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Free from what? From the illusions, illusions, and from that personality of us, which we think it is ourself, giving us so much pain, agony, and a kind of a satisfactory way of living. That was the aim why the locust was humanized in Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, and came down just to throw us back. So I said, what I will tell you is out of my own experiences, which will be your experiences sooner or later. There is no other way. You are not immortal personalities, yet you are immortal soul-spirits. So you must reach that self-realization. You may read many, many books on mysticism in the East, many others. Yes, they show a pathway, but are those pathways, of course all pathways are leading to the same goal, sooner or later, but are those pathways safe? Are they the short ones? So we have two ways, and you have to choose. The one way is reasoning and using the mind properly in studying, understanding, understanding and knowing by using the bodies, understanding what we are and what we are not. This is the one way, which is the aim of the esoteric teachings, and which is the other way, that 80% of the people are going through. The way of destiny, of cause and effect, the Hindus call it karma, the whip of destiny. Everybody will come back home. The prodigal son cannot remain in the brothels. Sooner or later he will return back home to his own divine nature. So I said that this is the way 80% of the people now on the planet are following. Yes, feeling that whip of destiny, which Christ said, whatever one shows, so he shall reap. And we can study this law, of cause and effect, the laws of relativity. We can follow now if we like the orthodox science, because a true mystic who is leading the path of mysticism is not rejecting the orthodox science as it is today, and as it will be tomorrow, because the orthodox science is just proving God, he believed all the time, he knew, just presenting it in another way. So many are asking me, you keep the keys, you don't give us the keys. Which keys? I'm giving you at every moment the keys. The keys is just knowing, understanding, which is the super substance of the mind, start using it in the proper way, living the proper life, and studying, using in our logic, and all the other ways which are given, I am giving them, of just understanding what is consciousness at the beginning, just to study all the levels of consciousness, to find in that yourself your self- consciousness. There is not any mystery in it. What it is, it is from the part of the others hearing, just to get the trouble and work on it. Just a brother guide, an instructor, he may hold the torch lighting your way, as all those have done before, even Christ, saying I am the light of the world, he can take you from the hand and guide you, he is a guide, but don't expect to take on his shoulders and cover for you the way back. You have to train your two feet and go on. What are these two feet that you have to use? Becoming masters of emotion and of thought. You have to make the balance, that means use both as a master now, of your psychical body and your nautical body. Understand what they are and what you are for them and in these bodies. So, unless you know the existence of something and being able to use that something, you cannot be sure that these things do exist. Many great ones spoke about these three bodies, the cross-material body, the so-called psychical body, and what you call the nautical body, calling it spiritual body. No, they speak about these three bodies, Confucius in the Lao, Buddha, you find it in all mystical systems, Christ clearly, more clearly, but who really is interested now to find out how am I now, who made me as I am now, and what can I do for my bodies? I make the mistake to think that they are myself. I must find out that really I am not the bodies and the bodies are given me to use them and make good use of them. So, human beings now, I say, 80% are just living in the darkness of ignorance, what concerns life, the world, and themselves even as time and place personalities. So, we have to find it out. So, we said we should use the mind. The mind is supersubstance, formless, yet in it are all the laws, causes, and principles. It is what you call the first expression of the real pleasure of the infinite beingness to express itself in itself, in itself through the mind. Yes, because the absolute infinite beingness is everywhere, is omnipresent. So, it is in itself. And we spoke about the holy archangels and all the archangelic orders, beings, billions, beyond number, as our own spirit, self, ego. We are not different to all those divine gods in the absolute infinite beingness. A spirit solely because we have never been created. We were always in God the Father. As human beings we have been created. So, we have to study these two states of our existing beingness. So, this absolute infinite beingness is what I will call its absolute total wisdom. We can trace that studying the manifestations in life and see that in every phenomenon of life, in the world of existence, starting from the cross-material world, from the world, the amoeba, anything will find the total wisdom as harmony in life and also will find the almightiness of the absolute infinite beingness. Nothing is beyond its control by studying what we call the circles of possibilities and also the circles, many, of probabilities around any circle of possibilities. So, already human beings have now everything ready, thanks to those great ones who have worked for centuries and centuries, incarnated and reincarnated to present the truth. So, there is no excuse now for people because things are easier now for them. The way back is well-lighted now. So, the mystery is in learning what is the mind, a super substance, in it having the principles, the causes and the effects. The effects are reformed to be seen in the world of universes vibrating a substance now, not a super substance. That is the neurotic world, the neurotic universe. And also seeing the mind vibrating in lower frequencies of vibration, which is what we call the psychical substance, from which is the psychical world. Then we can study the will-pleasure of God, dynamically, as energy, as living etheric vitality, which creates what we call the etheric doubles of these bodies, which are the modes in which the bodies are constructed and sustained every moment. So, we have to study all that. And then study even the material body. How do common people now know more than their material form? Material form. But this form is not only material, cross-material, rounded, our material human body, because our form is also having the light of a substance, a super substance, the spiritual light. So, we must study what are we as a human form? And what is that human form? Is it a creation, or it will be always and eternally? Here is our difference from Buddhism now, because our self-consciousness will never be dissolved and annihilated in the whole, because we can never take away from us our human form, having what we call its spiritual now body, because unless this is not so, one is lost. And what was the purpose of the infinite beingness of God, of life, in creating just a creature to be lost? That would be without any sense. But we have to investigate it. Now, we have two ways now. Starting how the holy archangels are using the mind in creating universes and worlds and our bodies. So, outside. And what concerns our petty now little self, which is in reality the shadow of our self. And because our self is God, even its shadow is divine. So, we have now to study that. You put the question now, study, who will study it? Our spirit, soul, ego, self? No, because our inner beingness knows everything. Who will study that? That place of our divine nature, the parts of life, which is in our present day personality, which is all the time changing. Because as a human being, having the bodies under the control of the holy archangels, we have also in the bodies a kind of time and place selfhood, the self of our present day personality, which is the will of the logos. Because as a personality we are logoic. As bodies we are also logoic and holy spiritual. We have just to find out this truth by introspection and studying what is taking place in us, in our bodies. Not in our body, only the material body, because in the same way we can just start studying the material body. We'll find out as reality our psychical body and work in it, and also our neurotic body, and work in it, and become the masters of these bodies. Who? The holy ego, spiritual? No, we, with it. Because we as human beings, we have the parts of life, in reality, the heart of our existence, is a ray of the absolute infinite beingness and our real self. That's why Christ said, the mortal will become immortal and the perishable will become imperishable. Which means, what is the perishable and what is the imperishable? The perishable is what is continuously changing. That part of your personality is continually changing. As your material body, we are continually changing. From a spermatozoon, birth, growing and growing and growing, until we reach an age when we leave the material body. Why? We are continuously changing. You have to learn what is the material body. We make the mistake to think that it is ourselves, which it isn't. Now we shall find the entity, the personality, in the material body. And what do we find? That the part of the material body, this entity, is a creature, something created. And that is what we call our psychical body. We must learn, see it, use it. We are using it day and night already, subconsciously, without knowing its existence. You have to know it now, properly, and using it, becoming the master of this psychical body. Does the psychical body have a form? Definitely, you are form. Only he, that psychical body, is stressed with what we call psychical substance. And then one should know the existence of his noetical body. Does it have a form? Exactly the same form. But now we have in it what we call noetical substance and super substance. We are using it also subconsciously. By using subconsciously our psychical body and our noetical body, it makes us different from the other animals around us. Because the animals around us cannot use these levels of consciousness, thought, and real emotion. Instead of emotion, the animal life around us is expressing instinct. We have also instinct, but instinct is not what we call emotion. So we have to study now the nature of our personality, find in it ourselves who will start studying to reach the self-realization, to understand that I am not the bodies, I am using them. How will we do that? By introspection. We have just to study the behavior of our present-day personality. The reactions taking place in our personality as a man or as a woman through the five senses from the outside world. Studying will find out what influence all these experiences have on us as a personality. We start now studying the elementals composing our present-day personality. That's why I said that. Studying the elementals is the most important thing one has to know. Because as a building is composed and constructed on materials, we have around us bricks. You cannot have a construction unless you have these things. You can never have a personality of a man unless these elementals are building it up. So the present personality of every human being, man or a woman, is built up by the reactions and the behavior of the elementals composing it and the elementals either we as personality, not as an ecosystem, have created or have re-energized from the psychical atmosphere around us. So these things one should know them and work with them. Start making what you call self-analysis. And self-analysis now I mean the emotional side of a personality. Put another one. Know this what we call subconscious mind, your subconsciousness, which is the heart of the present-day personality. That's not difficult because in it is recorded everything you have experienced. There you will work in what you call your subconsciousness. So one of the first lessons one has to learn is to study itself as a personality and then develop this personality to higher and higher and higher and higher levels of consciousness to reach the self- realization, now becoming master of the bodies, combining them in one form, his human form. But now clean, pure, not contaminated, not dirty. Dirty? Yes, because in this present-day personality you have very bad, muddy poops and stagnant waters, bad smelling, which you call hatred, enmity, jealousy, so many, many other human weaknesses in us. We have just to face them boldly, study them, know what they are and how by using higher elements, which is the thought, exterminate their effect on us, elementals. As I said in the lesson, no one can destroy an elemental, once created, because it's made of living matter. But what we can do? We can de-energize it so that it will slumber in the cosmic consciousness and leave us alone. The seeker of the truth is shown the way how to do it. Study these elementals. Shall we say that these elementals are composing, what we say, our psychical body and our neurotic body? Composing them? No, they have their structure, they have their form, they have their own substance, but still they are composing the present-day psychical and neurotic bodies. That means our present-day personality. But on that form of what we call the psychical body form and our neurotic body form, there are continuously changes, not in the form, not in the human form, in the purity of that form, as changes are taking place in our material body, but not in our material, not in our form, materialized, so it happens in the other bodies. Now, which is the form? Our form, as human beings, the etheric doubles of the bodies, the molds in which these bodies are built up and constructed. Many have observed that after amputating a part of your body, I have heard very many say that the whole foot is removed, and of course, disorbitated. Still they feel pain in the place where are the toes. They say, that's kind of bad. Is that my imagination? No, because the material foot can be taken away, but not the form. And the etheric double of the material body, which is the mold in which the material body is built up, is there. And when what you call aesthetic or feeling-giving ether is there, they feel pain, of course. This is not something one or two people have experienced, but hundreds. Now, why another foot is not growing since the mold exists there? Because as we are today, you have developed the nervous system, which is not easy to create it immediately. Yet in certain animals, parts removed are recreated in many. In the snakes, in the lizards, cutting the tail, it will grow. On what you call the concept, cutting a foot, it will grow. So, it's difficult just to grow again a foot, material foot, after amputated, but the form is there. Nobody can destroy or affect the form. Of course, there are different laws in the material world concerning the cross-material body. What about our form in the psychical world? We have the substance there instead of the form, as material, cross-material body. Now, a fellow can kill another fellow's body only, and that fellow will find himself in the psychical place. So, the material, cross-material form of the body can be destroyed. But can one destroy the psychical body? No, because this substance is easily reconstructed. If something happens to a human being in his material body, a blast, a bomb, just making the material body in pieces, he will find himself in his psychical body, perfectly all right there. And if you tell him, you know, this and this happened, maybe he might remember something, and you say, yes, of course, I woke from a very bad dream. You're not thinking it was the reality. I had this experience many, many times in helping people going to the other side. They say, but you see me right here. You are dead. What do you say, sir? I'm dead. Since I speak to you and I touch you, how am I dead? So, there is no such a thing as death, annihilation of the personality, or dissolution of the personality. So, one finds himself or herself in the psychical body, but you have different now conditions in life, because that psychical body has around it a shell, a shell hell or a shell paradise. We create every moment. We said that our personality has in it all the elementals composing it. Shall we say that? Our psychical body, now, in our material bodies, is in such a shell hell or shell paradise? Definitely. But we cannot see that. Clairvoyant people can see it. And I said in a lesson that no one will find himself after the death of the material body in any hell or in any paradise. He is not already now. Nobody will get from the hand a personality casting away the material body and say, no, look here. Here is your place. You have done that and that and that. Many religions speak about the judgment. Nothing more blasphemous, such thing does not exist. One finds simply himself or herself to deliver or discipline of the psychical world. They are vibrating now. We are placing ourselves in the place in which we deserve to be. So, the psychical body, in its form, is not just like the material body, undergoing quick and sudden changes. It is also the neurotic body. And even not as a body now, we have what we call our spiritual self, so that we are not lost as a self-conscious being in time and place, as a soul. So, these things you can experience in due course. I say either by reasoning or by the whip of destiny. The prodigal son has to return back home sooner or later. Now, the way of using the mind properly, I can't say it is difficult, but I can say it is very easy. What is difficult? Just the way of destiny, karma, as the Hindus say. They would say that this way is the painful one. It's a way that gives deep personality, despair, pain, agony, and dissatisfaction. So, what is the aim of the seekers of the truth, of the researchers of the truth? What is their aim? In using the right way of meditation, using the mind in the proper way, and developing, raising up their consciousness to higher and higher and higher levels. To come to the self-realization that knowing what we are, and we find out that we are not what we thought we were, that means our material body, the psychical body, as emotions, weaknesses, reactions, desires, and many, many other things, and we are not also our nautical body as such, thinking how we can just find out that we are not all that. Daskalos-Jun-2-1992-B-The-Way-Home How do we find out that we are not our psychical body? That means we are not our desires, emotions, weaknesses. How we are not all that? That means our present day personality. Because we can check them, know them, master them, change them. Then we find ourselves that we are not all that which we can master. How do we find that we are not our medical body? That means our thoughts. Now we can use the mind now again as reasoning. Study what is the thought. How was using the mind until now? In serving the emotions and the desires. That can change my thoughts. The way of thinking. By being master now of thought, it's evident we are not the thought. Since we can change it. Now, we are not the material body. Who can do anything? We lack the material body. Certain fools even kill it, committing suicide. We are not our emotions, our psychical body. Being able to study what takes place in our so-called personality, in our subconsciousness, composing this so-called psychical body of us. Not as a form, but as a substance in it. We can change it. And I said we are not the medical body. We can just work on it. See it, know it, use it. What are we then? What are we then? Are we the personality? We can be the personality if we wish to be the personality. What are we then? I had a fellow who was a good poet, composing poems and writer. He was a good writer. He was in the inner circle. Fascinated by his dreams, views, that means using the ethical and psychical bodies of his, I can say, in a clean and nice way. He was a very good fellow. He got up and told me, look here, what are you leaving to me now? You take away from me my body. My emotions, a psychical body. My thoughts. I am nothing. I said, no, you are everything. No need to be something. You can be everything. Of course he left. He preferred just to write good poems, emotional things and all that. I know sooner or later he will come back. But what are we now? Without fear, enter in that state. Do we have now a form? Or we are formless? We are we whether we have the form or not. Because in reaching these high levels of self-consciousness, Now, the self is not in need of a certain form. You are awakened as God. But as God you can get any form you like. And know everything you like. Which is just getting what I call attunement or oneness. Becoming one with everything you want to know. These are the higher, higher levels of self-consciousness. Many times you hear these words. But you must sit and say, but what are they really? What is attunement or oneness? This is the nature of our real self. Real self now, but who is the fellow investigating things? Not my present-day personality. No, the parcel of life in your present-day personality. Which now reaches the self-realization. So, you have to sacrifice nothing. You say, can I, in that divine state, we call it divine state, recollect anything I like? I'm telling you now, you cannot do it. You cannot remember your past incarnations. Because the message of God said that you should forget to have the chance of going forward. So, you are now not seeing the reality. When you reach those levels, all your incarnations will be an open book to you. You'll know everything concerning you. Only anybody you want to know. Anything around you. This is what I call super-consciousness. Holy spiritual super- consciousness. But you can join it together and make it self-super-consciousness. This is the reality. Finding out what you are, not who you are. Because you don't care what you had been, whether you had been Alex, Mary, Ahmed, Notul. Yes, for you it is pages of your book you have written. You can go through them if you like again. Live again. Because all your incarnations composed of elementals, which are living elementals, they might be dormant in the cosmic consciousness. Yes. But they are in you. Where is the cosmic consciousness? In you. In you where? In the personality? No, in your super-consciousness. So you are gaining, not losing. And what Joshua Manuel de Christ said, that the kingdom of the heavens is in us. It's our inner nature. So everything is given to you. Life. What's life? Manifestation of my self-consciousness in a certain place, in a certain period. What did Joshua de Christ say? The form materialized or otherwise is not life. Don't be afraid of those killing your material body by not being able to touch. You are soul. You are selfhood. Just find the spirit, ego, self. It is the spirit which gives life. Which gives life. And what he says in a place that nearly he should be observed, at least by the dignitaries of the church. And they didn't. My father loves me. And I love my father. I am the father. Because I can lay down my life anytime I like and take it back again. They told him, how is that? I am the life and resurrection. Who understood those great words? They have meaning in it. So, finding that self of yours. It doesn't need the self to have a form. It can get any form. And by oneness can be one with any archangel. Everything, that's a great, great privilege which the archangels, your brothers, do not have it. Because when the prodigal son returned back home, the father gave him a golden ring. The ring is the symbol of eternity. Knowing what is time in the eternal present. Which the archangels do not know. Many times I have asked many archangels of various kinds, what is time? They look at me. What is eternity? Now. Always they say now. But now human beings know what is eternity. And they know what is time as present, past and future. So we are privileged. Can we get any form we like? Leave aside our human form. I don't mean only just the form as a name and as a present, a personality. Even as a soul. And get it back? But you can do it now even as a personality. Every 24 hours, at least for some time, you enter in that state of phenomenal non-existence. The material body lies in bed. And you, as a personality now, you think you are annihilated. You enter into non- existence. Yet you wake up in the material body and you recompose yourself. And Mary is Mary and George is George. Not less. So. Yourself can recompose even the present day personality. Just study this phenomenon. I had this question from someone in the inner circle. Yes, of course, because I have a material body. And of course I recompose, as you say, my present day personality as Yannis in my material body. But you have also a psychical body. Can you not recompose Yannis, I said, in your psychical body? But how? You are doing it sometimes when you see a dream. And then you are losing it. Because you don't know the way how to keep it. How to live self-consciously in the psychical plane. So, human beings are living subconsciously, even in the material plane. Subconsciously in the psychical plane. Not even subconsciously in the ethical plane, because people are not using the mind. They expect others to think for them. So we have to develop our faculties as a personality using our inner self's capacities. We can do that by using the mind. No excuse. God gave us the means to do it. And Joshua the Christ not only mentions about these means given to us, but he is also persuading us to do it. Giving us the right, the persuasion how to do it. Be He perfect. As perfect as your Heavenly Father. So far. Not less. So, what do we expect to do? And how do we live now? Just a little step above the animals around us. And sometimes even being worse than the animals around us. In cruelty. Killing the bodies of one another. Making worse. So, what is now the duty of every human being to do? To use the precious and most precious and holy gift given him, the mind, by the Father God. And Joshua the Christ gave only one prayer. What to call this Sunday prayer. But what is that prayer? Our Father who art in Heaven. We have to realize that our Father is in Heaven. Hallowed be thy name. It is already there, but we have to acknowledge it. In us. In the Heaven, in us. Thy kingdom come. As it is in Heaven. In the Heaven, come where? In us. Give us this day our daily bread, which is our daily bread. A man cannot live simply on bread. Christ said. He said, I am the bread of life. And making the communion symbolical, he says, this is my body. To give you eternal life. This is my blood. Who understood really what Joshua the Christ was saying and teaching by all that? But it is necessary to forgive the trespasses of the others if we want to be forgiven. He gives a parable on that. Very clearly. And temptation. Of course, a human being should be tempted. Just to gain his way. Getting the strength to become victorious on that struggle. That is why God is giving us this test. And what is now evil? Deliver us from evil. What is evil? Now, it is not just simply reciting for a thousand times this prayer without knowing what really it means. You enter in the meaning of Joshua the Christ. So, what is the duty of every human being expecting? Let us use the church now language. Liberation. Really, I don't like this God. But we will use them. To study our behavior in the society and forgive the trespasses of the others so that we will expect God to forgive our trespasses towards the others. To him, he doesn't mind about that. So, he gives them the way. Just realize that we need the divine bread of life. And not that made from wheat or maize. Because he said, man cannot live simply on material bread. So, we should find out the first step. Who we are, the parts of life, in our present day personality of a man or a woman. And start now, seriously, studying the behavior of this present day personality of ours. That means, studying our desires, our emotions. What is the power in them, in driving us to enmities and to so many things? Just to study our present day personality. This is the way how to know the composition of our so psychical body. Not necessarily its form. Because its form, our human form. In those levels, it's obeying different laws than the material laws. Of course, the seeker of the truth, when he is in hot collection, somatosis, will be taught by his brother, instructor and guide, the laws of the psychical plane. Because the laws in the psychical plane are not the same as the laws in the material plane. They are different. This is a world of the fourth dimension and this is the world of the three dimensions. And also, he will be taught by his brother, instructor and guide, the laws in the noetical planes. How? By raising up his consciousness to self-consciousness. Because all people are living now in the psychical world. Either dreaming or slumbering. Coming back, remembering nearly nothing of their life in the psychical world. So, what you have to do is just to raise our consciousness, the consciousness of the present day personality, to what I call our self-consciousness, even self-known, considering our material entity, George and Maria. To find out that now, in reality, I am not that. So, I am making that entity, which is my personality, leave. I am not that. And I gave this thing. When you ask somebody, who are you? You say, I am George. Believing to a name and bringing his human form. Because he cannot bring his psychical or noetical form. But when one reaches to higher levels of consciousness, to the self- consciousness, when I put the question, who are you? Whether that's a man or a woman? Because this I-ness has no sex. There, you are not a man or a woman. You are a soul, and the soul has no sex. And if I ask them, who are you? They say, I am I. But with capital letters now, that I. As big an I as the universe. Because, believe me, your inner space in the kingdom of the heavens, which are in you, the space is not smaller than the outside space. Which means that you can move about as a spirit any time you like and where you want to go. Joshua the Christ says, this spirit is giving life, and this spirit can move anywhere it likes. It is in the Bible, in the gospel. So it gives the ability of the spirit, self, God. So, are you losing anything in just developing in your petty little self the real self-consciousness of who you really are, transmuting the present-day personality into your divine state? You are not losing anything. You are having, not creating, having everything. Seek the kingdom of the heavens, and everything will be added to you. Everything. Not certain things. What is that everything? Matter will be a toy in your hands. You can know what is materialization and dematerialization and changing the nature of matter. Only that. Anything you can do in the psychical plane. You are becoming master of the world. You can just handle the mind now as a reason, and in another way of the expression of the mind, in your self-super-consciousness. Just being in many places at the same time, if you wish to be, can one materialize a body, just like his body, in many parts of the world. If he knows the laws in the psychical plane, and the ability of the form projecting it, he can do it. Of course he can do it. No need to dissolve his body and just rematerialize it somewhere else. He can materialize any number of bodies he wishes to. And shake hands with people. But why should he do that? To stupefy people? He shouldn't do that. Unless it is necessary to do that. To help. I'm telling you, the powers of the invisible helpers, accompanied by the high intelligences, are not limited. But one is having the responsibility now. Casting completely away, annihilating completely, the personal egoism is not just entering in the duties of his brothers, the holy archangels. But he can do it. He can do everything. Seek the kingdom of the heavens, and everything will be given to you, will be added to you. One who has faith, not the things I am doing now, faith as the seed of a mustard, can tell that man, then go and it will go. He can do what I am doing still. More things can do. Which means, one should develop his real self-super-consciousness. This is the way. And I said, everyone sooner or later has to do it. Either by following the way of studying, learning, meditating, or through the centuries with the whip of destiny. Destiny is giving lessons. Very bitter lessons, but precious lessons. So when you see somebody suffering, you should know that it's not a punishment. It's a lesson which that fellow should have to wake up. Because it is a blasphemy to think that there is a punishing God. God is not punishing. He is all merciful. Now, we shall make a meditation. Relax completely. Now, bring to your consciousness, the personality consciousness, a person you love, member of the family, son, daughter, father, mother, husband, wife. Any person you love very much. And bring that fellow in your nautical body. We are working now on the nautical level. Bring in front of you the form of that beloved person. Who are you now? You are he or she. Where is yourself? You are becoming he or she. Now, bring that person in front of you, expressing love, making your heart vibrate, even the material body. Of course, from your subconscious, it will come in your consciousness, events which are just common to you and that fellow. Leave them aside. Simply express love to that fellow. You love. You are becoming that fellow now, in form and in love. Can you help that fellow now? Of course you can. Whether that fellow is near you, or hundreds and thousands of miles away, you are becoming a broadcasting station, and that fellow will become a receiving. Love is uniting souls, and even personalities. Of course you can help. That fellow will be in need of help. If you go on practicing these things, in a certain time, you enter in what we call Oneness or Atonement with the person you love. Can we love a holy person? Joshua the Christ? It's much easier, because he is everywhere and in us. Of course we can. Come in conscious contact with him, or with the Divine Mother. Many with Saint Francis, or with other holy persons. Now, what is the mind? And what is form-making or visualization? Is that imagination? No. It's creating thought. You may say, is it what we are constructing, an elemental? Definitely it is. But the whole work in the universes is the work of the elementals. Unless you have them, how will you have creation? The whole universe, material and oratory universe, is the materialization of the elementals, of the Archangels. This has nothing to do with lazy fantasy or imagination. You must learn now, the real visualization and form or image construction. By so doing, you can even materialize them. Now you see that you bring the image or the likeness of that person, it goes away, it comes again, it goes away, it comes again, it is because there is a turmoil in your so- called subconsciousness, which you have to calm it down and get what you want and place there what you want. And you can do it by introspection, to calm down the so- called noetical atmosphere in you. So, those who want to progress in these things, they must practice what I call visualization or form making, seeing things. And later, see them more real, and they are real, because they can even materialize. But they are not going to become magicians. You will use these powers only in psychical healing. You will use what I call materialization and dematerialization on living matter, in the bodies of your brothers and sisters. Daskalos-Jun-9-1992-A-Consciousness-and the-Holy Mind Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen. The absolute, infinite beingness, the absolute selfhood, is a reality. We said that a human being cannot understand much about the nature of this absolute, infinite beingness, in its real nature, except very, very few things. First, that this absolute, infinite beingness, the absolute selfhood, is in itself sufficiency. It needs nothing. Second, that this absolute, infinite beingness, the absolute selfhood, has in it beings having their own selfhood, similar to the absolute, infinite selfhood. No difference in it. Which, for the absolute, infinite beingness, multiplicity. As we explained, multiplicity doesn't mean multiplying, but being in great numbers. Numbers beyond comprehension. So, another thing a human intelligence can understand about this absolute, infinite beingness, we'll call it selfhood, which is the eternal life, is that the nature of this absolute, infinite beingness is life. It is the everlasting, eternal life. But who can understand God's life, in reality? We can just trace God's life, by the phenomena of life, we can see the material world. And, around our material self. Even so, studying the phenomena of life, we can trace what life, eternal life, everlasting life, God, may be. So, what else we can understand as human beings? That, in this absolute, infinite selfhood, apart from the self-sufficiency, is also pleasure of expressing itself in itself. By so doing, we can trace the total wisdom and the all-mightiness of this absolute, infinite beingness, of God. So, we know also that the absolute, infinite beingness, God, and the immortal beings, in itself, similar to the absolute, infinite beingness, co-vibrate to this real pleasure of manifestation. And, in this way, the mind emanates from them, and from the absolute, infinite beingness. Now, what is the mind? Definitely, the mind is not God. It is the expression, not the nature, of God. What can we know about the mind, as human beings, common human beings? Very, very little. Using it subconsciously, not to say stupidly, most of the time. But, we can know that, using the mind, in the right way, through the mind, we can express and develop a kind of self-consciousness, in the various states of its expression. But, now, we should be very careful. Self is a different thing from the consciousness, which the self is expressing. But, not mix them up. Because, most people, even advanced students, in the esoteric teaching, make the mistake to mix up this consciousness with the self. No! The consciousness is expression of the self through the mind. But, what's behind it? The real self. The real self is God. And, the mind is not God. The self is divine. The mind is holy, not divine. Because, the mind emanates from the absolute, infinite beingness. And, from these immortal beings, just for the purpose of manifesting the divine plan. The total wisdom and the all-mightiness. We should not make the mistake to mix up, as one thing, the self with the self-consciousness. Now, very little can be said about this absolute, infinite beingness. Except, that we, as a self, we are similar to the absolute, infinite beingness. And, similar to our brethren, the holy archangels. Our spirit-ego is God. This is clear. We can find it out by developing our self-super- consciousness. And, the God-man, Joshua Manuel de Christ, revealed it clearly. All other wise people in the past have found it out. Lord Buddha, the enlightened one, 500 years before the birth of the God-man, was a prince, born in a palace, married, having even a son. But, he was disturbed. He was uneasy. He left everything princely in the palace, his clothes, his shoes, and barefooted, entered the jungle to find God. He suffered much, developing, what we call, psychical powers. Such a way that no wild beast could touch him. No snake could harm him. Being alone in the jungle for a long time, meditating. Of course, that was the wrong way. Isolating himself from all the other human beings. He suffered a lot. Became very skinny and thin. And, he fainted. And, when he came back to senses, he said, No, that's not the right way. Then, he went approaching the people, started eating again, and you have statues of Lord Buddha with projected belly. So, when he met students, started disciples, preaching them, he said, I was searching for God everywhere. I found Him. Ananda, his best disciple, said, Where? In me. In you. Not inside me, inside you. In me. Me being God. So, he became what we will call a man-God. And, everybody can reach that state of calling himself a man-God. Not a God-man. Man, just ascending the stairs of evolution, and then feeling who he is as a God. Everybody can become a man-God. Only one was the God-man, who directly, as God, had been humanized, once, expressing at the same time, as a human being, His Divine Logoic Selfhood. That was Emmanuel Joshua the Christ. The only one. Of course, there are reasons, starting to investigate and find the truth around all these things. Because, we can trace there the Divine Nature in that human being. He was a perfect God, and a perfect man. Even calling himself the Son of Man. Honoring the idea of man, of the Heavenly Man. There is something else. When Lord Buddha discovered God in him, He was the first prophet who said to Ananda, before passing over, 500 years from today, God will descend as a human being directly. This is the teachings of Buddha. He was the greatest prophet. So, now, leaving aside what the wise ones said, and the God-men have said, though I suggest that the best friend of everyone should be the Gospel. They took out much of it. But there is still much remaining there to guide us to this great truth. But, yes, books, advices, and everything from the wise ones is precious. It can be a torch to light our way towards the truth. But we have to go the long way, with our feet. And Joshua the Christ said it clearly. Know, you should know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Not the knowledge of the truth by others, by us. That was clear. Now, having the teachings of the others as guiding torch, we have to work ourselves to find the truth ourselves. And we can do that. That is the persuasion of Joshua the Christ. He was instructing, Be ye perfect as perfect is your heavenly Father. He didn't say, become. He said, Be ye. You are, and you have to realize that. So, how? We have been given the means to do it. Which is the mind. At the beginning, all human beings, even animals, are using the mind. Without knowing what is the mind. The animals use it as instinct. Directed by the intelligences behind the animal life, which are angels and the archangels. This you can investigate by meditation, observation, and approaching the truth. It's another field of study. But now, what about human beings? Human beings, from the very, very beginning, after the first cry from their mouth, being born, are using the mind just like the animals, instinctively, trying with the hand to catch the breast of the mother and suck milk. So the human being has the instinctive use of the mind. We can study what is this instinctive use of the mind. Then, the human being develops what we call the subconscious use of the mind. Because the mind is everywhere. And everything is made by the mind. And the wise, advanced people have found out that as human beings and human intelligences can comprehend that the mind is formless, supersubstantial. Having in it the principles, the laws, the causes, which will reflect in lower frequencies of the mind as forms. The word of Orm. We call it substance. And the lower vibrations of the mind's substance will give us the ethereal substance composing our so-called psychical bodies. Still lower vibrations of the mind will give us the solid matter. Matter, a rock, a piece of stone, a handful of sand are mind-solid. So, nothing can exist which is not mind. So, this we can investigate and find it out. How? Even in the smallest grain of sand, dividing it into atoms, we can see the total wisdom of the infinite source and its all-mightiness. We can see in splitting an atom a solar system. A nucleus, motion, electrons, and all that. Today, the orthodox science investigated and found the truth known to the mystics many, many centuries ago. So, this proves that everything is mind. In different rates or frequencies of vibrations, one of the characteristics of the absolute infinite beingness is motion. And the characteristic of life is motion. And there is no phenomenon of life in any of the worlds unless it is under the law of motion, growing, developing. That's motion. Another field of study for a seeker of the truth, what is motion? And where shall I find this motion or movement? In the various heavens and their expression. Again, by using the mind in the reasonable way. So, what do we find at the end? Everything existing is made of the mind by the lords and masters of the mind as lords of the elements. Now, what are the elements? Very often we use the word elements. The elements are simply different vibrations of the mind. Nothing more than that. Because we said everything is the mind. And we can investigate it by studying the mind in its nature at first and later in its expressions as the elements. So, to Ingo can approach those who are working with these elements, the lords of the elements, our brethren. Where shall we investigate and find it? In our bodies. They are working, building up our bodies. Our material bodies and the other bodies. Of course, we start with the material body. But that's not only the material body. We possess just to express whom? Ourself. Who is ourself? What's that self? So, by concentration, meditation, in the right way, of course. So, not just getting a stone and throwing it, and that's everything. You have to know the aim. To gain your aim. Any kind of meditation is not helpful to guide us to the truth. They are offered by this many, many, many kinds of meditations leading nowhere. Calling them yoga. Stupid. Wasting of time. I have seen people, even Hindus, coming here. For years and years and years, practicing meditation, calling it Samadhi, Samyama. Giving it names. They didn't succeed even to conquer those psychic manipulations we call anger. We release provocation. You see them excited and getting angry. You have done nothing until now. You didn't find yourself. What you consider to be yourself is not yourself. Many often I meet such people. Coming from this and from many parts of the world. Claiming to have studied yoga for 20, 40 years even. Leading where? Nowhere. Wasting of time. So, the seeker of the truth should have his aim. And know where that road is leading to. Not just walking aimlessly and blindly. That means not wasting the super substance of the mind, but making good use of the mind. Because, believe me, the mind though not divine, it's holy. It's given us by the absolute infinite beingness. Given us as human beings. We are getting it. It's everywhere and inside us. Inside us? Why not in us? As human beings, we don't reflect it. We are borrowing it from the higher intelligences who are working to build our bodies. As a human being, as a personality, you are getting it. Give us this day our daily bread. That's our daily bread. It's not a loaf of bread because we would not apply it to God. We would go to a grocery and buy it. That's our daily bread. Yes. We are borrowing it. And that rate of vibrations, we call it energy. Etheric vitality. And all that. Not emanating from us. Human beings. As a personality. But when you raise up this consciousness to your self-superconsciousness, you find out that it emanates from you also. It is in us. Not in the personality, but in the soul, in the spirit ego. Because we are similar to all other spirit egos. We are similar to the fire, to our source. So, the mind should serve us as the mirrors. Many kinds of mirrors. To see in them reflected reality. See the reflection of the reality only, or use it to reflect ourselves through those mirrors. So, we must come to right reasoning. At the beginning, by studying to know the truth, by what I call observation, we detect the truth. But later, we will handle the mind and use it. That will be now activity. And not observation. Observation will be accompanying, because at all times we should use awareness as activity. And as concentration. So, taking a human being now, a man or a woman. From where? Any place on the planet you like. In a highly civilized country, or a backward country, the aboriginal. It doesn't matter where from you get that human being to examine him. What you find out? That all of them are using the mind subconsciously. Even those calling themselves scientists. They don't use the mind self-consciously, but they use it consciously. We must distinguish now the various degrees of the expression of the mind. Even using the mind, the scientist, subconsciously, on what I call the cross matter, they present us very, very wonderful things. Televisions. Rockets. Hotels. Many, many, many things. But is there life in all those things? No. Because they don't use the mind in the matter. Mind. Self-consciously. What the Archangels are doing? They are using the mind now. Creating living things. This is our difference from our holy brothers, the Archangels. So we are inferior to the Archangels. No. Man can get his inheritance in heaven because he is one of them. But as a personality, all through the centuries, had made so much bad use of the holy mind, using it subconsciously, that absolute infinite beingness deprived him of this creating quality which will be given to him. The first step of the seeker of the truth is to gain back what belongs to him, become master of the cross material world and body, to make what we call materializations and dematerializations and transmuting even matter. Something the holy Archangels are doing every moment around us. Of course, approaching the holy Archangels, they are teaching many, many things and they are willing, loving brothers, who want to teach the human being their secrets. Where shall we find this holy brothers of ours? Inside your body. They are working there. The first thing you will find is that in your material body, through the so-called etheric double, and in the other bodies, of course, but you have just to advance to realize that, that at least searching in your material body, you will find out that one of those Archangels of the elements is working, cooperating with the other Archangels, with the Locos and with the Holy Spirit, all you can find in building up your material body. You are living in it, yet knowing very little about it. I had the other day a fellow who was considered to be educated, not of course from the universe. He said, Oh, I feel a great pain in my heart, sir. Where? Here. I said, that's not your heart. It's already there. He didn't know what was his heart and what was his heart. Yet, his heart was functioning nicely and his body was well looked after by the Holy Archangels who create the body and keep on keeping it in good health. So, these things could not escape our attention. That's what I say, observation. Being alert on what happens around us and what we find. Of course, two fields of investigation now. How the Holy Archangels are using the mind in creating living elementals materializing the elementals presenting in the world around us phenomena of life. We must study these things and how a human being now is using the Holy Mind. How? We should be ashamed by wasting it, making very, very bad use of it. In creating through it a kind of personality. Really, I feel very sorry to call it in most cases devilish. Having in it a petty, time and place self we call egoism who masquerades to present itself as our ego, which is not our ego. And making very bad use of the mind. In which way? As super substance and as substance. And also going out on esoteric stuff. And even making very, very bad use of their material bodies which is the mind again. So we have now sincerely to see clearly what we are and who in reality we are behind what we present we are as a personality. Now what is a personality of a man? I said many times it is sum total of the elementals we are composing we are creating we are revitalizing subconsciously not consciously. Why and how subconsciously? Being slaves of illusions around us which I might call desires, emotions weaknesses. We have to study the nature of these expressions of ours as personalities. So there is much work to do. Here we want observation concentration and meditation in this direction. We have to analyze the desires. What are desires? How the desires are born in us created? What is the power in them? The force in them? And how do we behave when these desires are coming to us? I go a step forward. What are we doing? All these are subconsciously. You never bother just to study what is that desire around a material thing or anything else. Never bother about studying it. The only thing we feel is I want it. I will have it. I will possess it. Just study. Why? What am I to that? What is that to me? What it will offer me? Study the aftereffects of its fulfillment. Or the aftereffects, if it is not fulfilled what creates in our petty little self. We present ourselves as the egoism. This I call self-analysis. Many times you hear these words but you should enter deep in the meaning of what these words mean. What do you find? That all the time we are making very, very bad use of the mind. Enslaving the super substance of the mind to serve the desire or the emotion. Making the master a slave of the mind being in a state to check the desire and control it. I am telling you 90% of the people now on the planet living in any part of the world calling themselves scientists. Civilized. To the last aboriginal man are doing these things. Living subconsciously and most of them stupidly. Being slaves of their desires slaves of their emotions and if their emotions and desires are not fulfilled then there is a reaction in their so-called subconscious mind, their subconsciousness creating enmities hatreds jealousies just that feeling of attacking of taking revenge and what not. I will call them evil say dispositions. So one has to concentrate on all these things study them soberly and with reason to find out what they really are. He will feel ashamed to see that I am making all the time great waste of this holy super substance of the mind of thought given me all this time I was creating and projecting or revitalizing from the group of the elementals already existing elementals making them part of my personality so studying the personality of a man you find out that the quality of the personality of any human being man or a woman is the sum total of the elementals composited in it and its quality is the quality of these elementals so we will never find two human beings two men or two women the same though their material bodies are exactly the same so this is much work to do investigate study to know the truth about it if somebody will put you to the question you are living, aren't you? of course I am living I am not living I am moving, feeling even thinking and I doubt if we are really thinking I am living what is life? do you know what is life? you know what are you as a phenomenon of life and what is behind this phenomenon of life you you as a self-conscious being self-conscious being a god you don't know even what you are as a semi-self-conscious personality you have to study all these things and then what is the game? until now I was living that part of my personality I call egoism influenced by the surrounding influencing the environment using the mind subconsciously deceiving me that it is myself because in reality the inner life of the personality is your self-ego only the expressions are not yourself I'll put it in an example very crude though if I have an electric lamp 200 volts that's light giving light everywhere that's you light if I cover it with a shade many many colors around it it will cast on the walls the colors of the shade it will not give me the pure light of the I put another shade over it darker shade oh, it will give me much less light I put a third shade over it, doesn't give me any light yet the light is there I have just to take off one by one the shades then I see the light coming from it what are the shades? the darkest shade the material body that muddy, earthy dusty and filthy body for most human beings though we can make it divine if we like you understand what it is which is the second shade our emotions and our desires have to take it off and the third the misusual making of the mind now I have to see the light without the shade find yourself now, what we call our self, our real self in the present personality it's a self terribly distorted what is God doing in his great mercy? dressing us to make dirty our clothes cast them away dressing us again with new clothes until we find the way to wash them and not make them so filthy and so dirty give another example you see your face in a three face mirror in a material mirror in the emotional mirror behind it the nautical mirror and when you see it, you say, my God is that me? terribly distorted like a monster it's our behavior in the material world happily God from time to time says, that's not what you see reflected there but try to clean the mirror just to see yourself in it that's why you are in the material, in the psychological in the nautical world but happily just not to leave you in your illusions he's breaking it from time to time that means the death of the material body and the psychical body which is inevitable most necessary to free us from the illusions now suppose you see distorted your face in this three fold mirror I give you a hammer and tell you, break it you break it, what you are losing? nothing because you are not the mirror you are not the bodies but you have to find it out because you make the mistake to think that you are the material body and by losing the material body which has to be dissolved and decomposed you feel you are lost that's a great mistake that's a great mistake you are not lost even by casting the psychical body and the nautical body but you have to find it out to find out this reality to come out from the illusions you are given the mind to use it properly to find out the way and the truth to use the mind now how? first of all, not using it subconsciously creating elementals I will not call them evil maybe I will call them unnecessary I don't like just very heavy words and start creating something nice something good the clay is good but in the hands of a fellow it gives you a distorted stupid statue but the same material in the hands of a great sculptor what it will give you? a wonderful statue this is what you have to learn we are given the substance the psychical substance and the nautical substance you have just to create what we should create so slowly, slowly we have to learn how to do things rightly by using the mind now with observation not to make great, great mistakes and creating now instead of emotion or desire thought elementals pure thought elementals which are more powerful now and better building for us a palace instead of building for us a prison to imprison ourselves in it because from the same material stones, earth blocks, water wood, iron you can build a palace or you can build a prison so there is nothing wrong in the mind it is how you use it so I have given the mind and I say the mind is not a handful of earth which are maybe two brains in the skull that is nothing it is a little battery and that is not electricity so at the beginning even using the material brains through the five senses but now in our senses and not stupidly start creating elementals from time to time seeing that their quality is better and better we learn the nature of the mind as emotion and we learn what it is the mind in itself and make it a clear crystal clear mirror to see ourselves in it our self super consciousness now I said Daskalos-Jun-9-1992-B-Consciousness-andthe-HolyMind Now, we spoke about a mirror, a crystal clear mirror, to see our self reflected on it. But what we see in the mirror is not our self, it is our image. Which is this crystal clear mirror? We said our self, super-consciousness. When we raise our consciousness to those high levels, our self, super-consciousness. But I said before, we are not the self, super-consciousness. The super-consciousness is our expression. We are behind it, the self. Now, I unite it, self, super-consciousness, together. The one expressing itself, the self, and the expression of it, and the manner it's expressing itself, what I call it, super-consciousness. Now, it's lovely to see that self of yours reflected as super-consciousness, and compare it with this self you are just seeing in the threefold dirty mirrors, just like a monster. And you rejoice. Now, I know what I'm looking like. I know what I'm looking like, but I must find what I am. Not what I am looking like. So we should not stay there. We should find our dear self, God. What is the form of this God? Our spirit, soul, ego. Formless, but everything. We. So, we are formless. Yes, we are formless. What's the name of it? There is no name except I am. You go beyond even the I am I. There are higher states of expression of the self as super-consciousness. Many are afraid to enter in that state, believing that they are losing themselves. And many Buddhists make the mistake of calling it nothingness, nirvana. Nirvana is not nothingness. Nirvana is everything. What do I mean everything? In that state you can become anything yourself, being yourself. So all forms are yours, are in you, are in the kingdom of the heavens, which is in your own nature. You can become anything and know anything. Then you understand what's God. The master, emanating from him the principles, the laws, the causes, and all the forms. What kind of super-consciousness now you are expressing? Can you express what I call omnipresence? That's spreading. Much? Yes. But the omnipresence? Certainly. In God. Omnipotence? Not even. Not even the holy archangels, our brothers, the lords of the elements. The only omnipresence and omnipotence and the total love is not expressed by the nature of the locus, the expression, the manifestation of God. The only, only, only human being who could enter in this kind of selfhood of omniscience, omnipresence, and total love, it was only Joshua Emmanuel the Christ as a human being. Great honor to the human race to be honored by the locus, to humanize itself, perfect. Anyhow, I don't believe the men-gods can go to these higher states of beingness. They can go to the higher states of existence, admit it, but not to the higher states of beingness. Now, let us come down. We have gone too high. Coming down. We must find what we are and who we are. Two different things. Who we are. A name, believing to be a material body, believing to be emotions, desires, weaknesses, and so on, and using the mind without knowing what is the mind. That's what people are now. What we are going to do now. Studying in what way we are using the mind, creating and revitalizing elementals to compose our personality. Now to see the nature of our personality. No need to be in despair. If you meet, you are in a jungle. You have to work on it and make it a paradise. We can do that. Slowly, slowly. How? By now making good use of the mind as real, pure thought-forms, which are very powerful. Slowly, slowly becoming masters of the cross-matter. Masters of our so-called esoteric double and psychical body and our nautical body. I will remind you now of the parable which has been given by the godman Joshua the Christ. Many times I have given this parable because I give much importance to it. There is a master, the Divine Father, the Absolute Infinite Selfhood, the Absolute Infinite Beingness, who gave to some of his workers, going away, just withdrawing, to one talent for dinner. You got it. To another one, two. To another one, four. Why he gave them one, two and four? By judging how they would work with it. Coming back. The one with one dinner told him, Sir, I know you are a cunning master. You want your servants to work for you. This dinner you gave me, I have hidden it in the earth. Here it is. Have it back. That dinner is that selfhood. He has hidden it in the material body. What is more than earth? The material body. Not doing anything with it. Living just like the other animals around him. Told him, go back to prison. That was not a punishment. He had to go in the material body again, to be reborn, to learn the lesson. Why I gave you just this part of myself as a selfhood? To live like animals? Maybe this explains the incarnation and reincarnation. The other one said, Master, you gave me two dinners. I have worked with them. I made them four. Here they are. That means he gave to him a material body and an etheric double. Working with them, he made them the psychical body and the nautical body. Here they are. I made them four. What did the master say? Well done. You have been faithful and good to the few. And I'll entrust you with more. Enter in the joyousness of your master. Now, what is the joyousness of our master? The joy of our master. It is not our joy, which is a little self-satisfaction and pleasure. That's creation. That's the joyousness of our master. He says in the Bible, Christ, To the one who had two and made them four dinners, he made him governor of four cities. What is Jesus saying? Nonsense! Matter is our material body. The source of mind is our etheric double and our psychical and nautical bodies. We work with them, but these substances and this stuff is outside of us. And the cross-material world, and the psychical, and the ethereal, and all those worlds. So, knowing to work and make the two dinners matter, etheric double into psychical and nautical, we know now the way to enter in the joyousness of our father. Two dinners, bodies. Two cities. What are these cities? During the night, get out and look at the sky. Space needs governance. Not who understood really this great parable. Even dignitaries of the church cannot understand this parable. Because they know nothing besides cross-matter. And that there is nothing beyond that. What do we know? That one should develop what we call consciousness to the highest levels of consciousness so that we see our real self in it, reach what I call self-realization. To understand that we are gods and sons of the almighty and we should not just behave like animals. Another great, great parable of Joshua the god-man is the parable of the lost son, the prodigal son. He says, the younger son told his father, give me my substance, my property. I want to go away, to enjoy myself. All that belongs to the divine plan. He could stop him if he wanted, the father. He didn't do it. Go. There you are. You are given the holy substance of the mind even behaving as a foolish person. He went out. He entered in the world of separateness. He describes Christ there, his life in process with harlot, with thieves, with criminals, spending the holy substance which means the mind to the point he became bankrupt as most human beings are now. What was the life of the prodigal son? He was forced to gut swine to be a fellow guarding herds of swine and satisfy himself by eating the food of the swine. What are the swine? The elementals. He is projecting and revitalizing, living with them and being fed with the food of those swine contaminating the mind with all other states of deathly consciousness. But he came back to senses and he said, look here, he remembered in the palace of my father his workers there are living happy. I am a prince. What am I now? Dressing dirty rags of a fellow guarding swine in the muddy places where the swine are just placing themselves. Hungry. Yes, of course, he was hungry. He couldn't have the high quality of the mind. He had desires, dirty desires, some brattled desires having in them the mind contaminated. He came back to senses, no. I will return back home. And I tell my father, Father, I have sinned towards you. Forgive me and make me one of your least servants if you like. I will serve you. When he made one step backwards, the father made in ten steps the nine to meet him and embrace him and kiss him and tell him, well, come back home, my son. Bring him back. What he did? Wash yourself, dear one. He dressed him with the first dress he had as a spirit. Eco-shirt. Brilliant. That's our spirit soul bodies which we'll get one day. We deserve having it. We have it in us already. Hidden. Hidden by the guardian archangel, your brother in you who is ready with the father to dress yourself once again that bright spirit dress. What else? He sacrificed, he has killed the welfare calf which means the material body. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of the heavens said Joshua the Christ and the kingdom of the heavens is in you in your beingness not in your personality. It has to be sacrificed. And he placed on his finger a golden ring. Men do not understand what it means. A golden ring is the symbol of eternity beyond time as past, present and future because motion around a ring has no beginning and no end. The holy archangels of the elements do not have that ring because they don't know what is time. Many times I conducted archangels asking them, what is time? They don't understand. Now. What is past, present, future? They don't understand. They understand the present now. But human beings now know what is past, present and future and eternity and everlasting life. So our place back home is still higher than the place of anyone of the holy archangels as our brothers. Now, one of the brothers said complaining, you did not give me even a little lamp to enjoy myself with my friends. How? He was never incarnated. What could he give him? The well-fed calf is the material body not the human form. The human form is the spirit the spiritual body of ours which is now in us in the kingdom of the heavens in us entrusted to our holy brother our holy archangel. That is our immortal everlasting state. So, nobody will lose himself as an individuality being dressed in that spirit body which I know. So, there is no loss. Yet, you can become everything you like. Like casting the human form you can get it back any moment you like. And Joshua Manuel said my father loves me and I love my father because I can lay down my life and I can take it any moment I like. There is great meaning in the words of Joshua. When you reach that state of self- superconsciousness you might feel afraid at the beginning. It is too much for you. But you will be encouraged to find who you are. You are a great one. You find you are not losing anything. You are guarded by the holy archangel, your brother, just to give you the last lesson. Come here. Cast away your human form. You are you. Formless, yes. Become any form you like on the material plane. Tree. Animal. And you will be you again. You are not losing your selfhood. And you can become anything that means getting what we call atonement or oneness which is the quality of the gods. Then back again. You are what you are. There are, of course, exercises in the innermost circles in which you learn how to cast away even the human form and get it back. Many are afraid at the beginning. But a good swimmer is not afraid of plunging in the water and swim. Because he knows how to come out. So, when I put you the question what is life? Do you know what is life? Dreaming in the soil? That's not life. Getting angry about nothing but trivial things. Longing for what? Getting something which will lose its value next moment and will make you feel tired. So, human being has to study all these conditions in which he calls life to understand what's life behind all this. And one can do it by practicing to create good elementals to compose with them his personality to transmute it into his individuality into the real self. To reach the self- realization to know that he or she is no sex anymore. We are losing the sense of sex. But in the selfhood there is the sense of God-ship. Being God. Again, you are losing nothing. You are gaining everything. Something of my own experience I like very much. It is going to cast away completely my human form being in a place near the sea and becoming the breeze in all the locality. Yet, being me not losing myself the form is not our self. Not becoming many, many things around you. By gaining, what I say expansion of the self-consciousness which I wish it someday to all of you. But that means real satisfaction in life and real joy. Yes. Now let us make an exercise. Relax completely. Start from the toes of your feet. Even our human form and our human body is good from the material point of view. Because the work of the holy archangels of the elements is perfect. Now feel being in the material body which is completely relaxed. The head, the chest, the belly, the feet. They are yours. The holy archangels who work and continue working them gave them to you. But who are you now? They love you as you are, a human being with all your weaknesses and they work for you to live in this material body of yours. Cooperate with them to keep this material body of yours in good health. You can do that. Now breathe deeply and comfortably and feel you are in this material body. Breathing in 10 beats I will make. Breathing out another 10 beats. Start. Feel you are in the material body. In the whole material body. Put the question now. Who am I? Forget your name. Repeat the question. Who am I? What am I now? What is the ego self? Enough. Now, today before the sunrise not many hours ago you have entered in a state of non- existence. In a dreamless state. No one can avoid that. In every 24 hours one will enter in this state of phenomenal non-existence. Where had you been? What had you been? You entered in the non-existence. After a little you woke up. And you are you as you were you before getting to sleep. Mary is Mary and George is George. No less, more, sometimes yes, more. Because you can get lessons in the other worlds of other dimensions. You can come more experienced and knowing more. Now, you were in a state of non-existence. How you have recomposed yourself? Yourself of course was not your body lying on bed sleeping. What are you? Who are you? The body? No. A name? A personality? Yes, even that. But who has recomposed that personality? Again, that mysterious self of yours caught in you. Even recomposing your present personality and able to recompose itself because you ask who am I? It's not only who are you, but who are you? So I am leading you the way. Make this kind of meditation. So put in your mind willingly or unwillingly in every 24 hours I have to stay in this state of non-existence. Who am I? Maybe sometimes you get experiences from the psychical world and you think you are dreaming. There are not such things as dreams but experiences in worlds of different dimensions which later you develop your self- consciousness to live self-consciously there the same way you are living in the material plane. They are real. But what am I being able to recompose even my personality? That understanding nature of that mysterious self of yours caught in you. Yes. Daskalos-Jun-15-1992-A-Breath-of-Life Our father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while we are in temptation and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. I wish to welcome the newcomers and for the newcomers we'll make a revision. What is always is the absolute, infinite reality. The absolute, infinite beingness, God. The characteristics of this absolute beingness is the absolute selfhood. Self-awareness, super-consciously. The self-aware of whatever is taking place and happens in himself through its omnipresence. Now, characteristics and the nature of this absolute, infinite beingness, absolute infinite selfhood, is the self-sufficiency. It is in need of nothing. Yet, one observes that, in spite of its self-sufficiency, this absolute, infinite selfhood, absolute infinite reality, has in it the will-pleasure of expressing itself in itself, creating worlds of existence. This will-pleasure of the infinite beingness causes the emanation from the infinite self of the super-substance of the mind. So, the mind is not God. So, in this super-substance of the mind is the divine plan, is the will-pleasure, in its total wisdom of the manifestation, the creation of worlds now of existence. Now, there is a great difference between beingness and existence. Beingness is eternal, everlasting, never had a beginning and will never have an end. Existence has a beginning and an end. In the beingness, now, it is rather difficult to conceive this great truth. Now, in the absolute, infinite beingness, in the absolute selfhood, there are billions, billions of numbers of beings, similar to the absolute, infinite beingness. Immortal, everlasting, eco-cells. One of these, eco-spirit cells, is our own self as human beings. From this aspect and this point of view, we are gods. Gods in God. There is a difference. Drops of water in the ocean will show us what I mean. The God is one. Gods in it are billions. Yes, similar. Eternal, immortal, everlasting. When the absolute, infinite beingness, the absolute selfhood, conceives its desire-pleasure to manifest itself, well, in itself, this absolute, infinite beingness starts vibrating. When? That was always. And then, all the beings, gods, in the absolute beingness, in at- one-ment, in oneness with the absolute, infinite beingness, co-vibrate, expressing its will-pleasure as their own will- and then, each of these absolute beings, in it, get, according to its nature, its place in the world of creation. Now, using the mind. The mind is everywhere in space. Everywhere in God. Using the mind, the total wisdom, and their all-mightiness, these immortal beings, forming now the orders of the archangels, start working. They classify themselves as the lords of the elements. The element of ether, the element of fire, the element of water, the element of air, the element of gross matter. Everything is the mind. So, all these elements are nothing else than different frequencies and vibrations of the super-substance we call the mind. So, when we say the mind, we will not think that the mind is just a handful of gross matter in the skull, what we call the brains. These are means which the holy archangels made just for the human being to use them, to express itself now as a personality and receive impressions through the five senses. Of course, they are of some use, but it is not everything. The brains in the skull are organs similar with the hands, the eyes, the feet, and any other organ in the material body. They are made of gross matter. But the mind, we shall see it as super-substance, formless, having in it the will-pleasure and the total wisdom of the infinite reality, as laws, causes, principles, ideas, all formless yet. But all this manifesting the total wisdom of the almightiness reflect the forms. Then we have the mind-substance, the nautical world, the nautical plane. Now you see forms. How many forms? Billions and billions and billions, beyond number, forms to be shared as phenomena of life, not only on the gross material plane, on the surface of the planet, but in all the other heavens. The ethereal world around the planet, the so-called psychical world of the planet and of all the other planets. The nautical world, the nautical world is also a world of forms, living forms. So form is not only the characteristic of the gross matter on the planet. A human being and everything else having a gross material body is a form dressed in gross matter, which sooner or later it is casting it away. But what about the form? The form is not made of matter, but the matter gathering around it creates the gross material form. So we have to understand now what is a form and what is a form dressed in matter, dressed in the substance we call emotions. And even in the more luminous dress of that form we call the mind, the nautical form. And then is the form finishing, expressing itself the form. I speak now about the human form, expressing itself the human form in the gross material world, dressing itself up with gross matter, by the phenomenon of the death of the material body. That human, let us call it being now, having the human form, is casting away the material body, remaining in its ethereal, in its psychical form, which is exactly the same as the material form. If there would be just some characteristics on the material body that the fellow likes, we will see it on the psychical form also. And when casting even the so-called psychical form, or rather transmuting it to the nautical qualities, then we see the same thing, the same human form in its more luminous substance now. Then wherefrom is coming this human form? Definitely out of the conception in the divine plan of the absolute infinite beingness, God, through the heart, we call the divine man, the heavenly man. Yes, that's true. But what makes certain gods, certain beings in the absolute infinite beingness, dehumanized and yet the human form? Nobody can say. It is because we have what we call our spirit form, our spirit body, which we always had it, and we'll always have it, that luminous spirit body in which our expression is what we call the soul. So according to our expressions as divine beings, we have different appearance, formless, nameless, without any name, without any form, beings divine in the absolute infinite beingness. But now following the pleasure of the infinite beingness, to express ourselves, to be humanized, we radiate from within us our spirit body, our spirit human form. We don't get it from anywhere. We are in it. That's our nature. And then around this form, which form? That human form. But you have to describe this human form. The form is changing every hour, every moment. We start our life in the world of forms as a spermatozo. Pregnancy, baby, child, girl or boy, growing up, an adult, growing up or changing the form. But that's our form. Then completing a whole life, changing continuously the human form and passing over, casting away our material body. We call that the circle of possibilities of the human existence. So in the circle of the possibilities of a human being, the form is in the circle of possibilities. And this circle of possibilities starts from the birth in the gross material world, continues the life in the psychical world in form, continues its life in the medical world and back again, reincarnation. Whether some people believe it or not, so it is. It's a fact. And there are entities, I don't call them now beings, human beings, yes entities, who do remember all their incarnations with every detail if they wish to remember and live again. Can we live again our previous incarnations? Yes. If one raises his personality's consciousness, what you call waking consciousness, to the higher and higher and higher levels of what I call self-consciousness, realizing what is the self in the incarnation, what is the self behind it, and raising up his self-superconsciousness, then he can expand, project himself beyond time. Then he understands that time as we understand it. Past, present and future is an illusion. We are living in the world of the eternal now, of the eternal present. It's very difficult now to understand that before reaching those levels of the self-superconsciousness. And this kind of self-superconsciousness is a proof that we are gods, all gods and sons of the Almighty. All the great ones and prophets have stated that. And Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, the Locust, directly humanized as a human being, has verified it as the truth. All you are gods and sons of the Almighty. So, with this what I will call self-realization. Now, how? Let us be more practical. What are we now? Are we animal men? No. We are gods, having just a material body, not different from the body of the other animals around us. It doesn't mean that you are animals. Yes, we have a relation with all the other living forms all around us. Ponds, blood, flesh. The life in every kind of form and our life in our human form. But similar circulation of the blood, the creation of many, many organs in the form and so on. Yet, we are different. We are expressing a self. And that selfhood is divine. No animal around us, no kind of animal around us is representing an individual self. It might use matter. It might use the etheric energy. It might use what we call psychic energy, expressing emotions, the motherhood in all the animals around us. But that's all. They cannot express a self. And this selfhood is a characteristic of a god. So, just to reach to this conclusion, we must just work by observation, meditation, now using the mind as thought. No animal around us is using the mind. Yes, it might show an instinct. But the instinct is not thought. We have just to observe all that and study all that happening all around us. So, we must study now our time and place self, which is the shadow of our self in reality and not our self. This shadow of our self as its nature is also God. It's using the mind. And we make the mistake to consider this time and place expression of the self as our self. I speak about the human egoism. So, we have seriously now, by observation, using the mind in the right thinking to start checking our behavior, our egoist behavior. And we make the mistake to think that it is our behavior. How does to study that? Of course, we are given the mind, super substance, and in all its forms, to use it. But are we using it? This is the question. We are living using the mind subconsciously, not consciously, not self-consciously. So, we have to start now meditating, concentrating, observing everything and trying to understand it, to study our material body. And then we find out that we are not a material body. Perfect as it is, the perfect work of the archangels of the elements can come in contact with these archangels of the elements when we raise up our consciousness. Yet, never mind that it is perfect and perfectly working, a true miracle, yet it is not our material body. We can study it, use it, and control it. Then we see that we are something more than the cross-material body. We are a personality, and that personality will make the mistake to think that it is our self. While the personality is the creation of circumstances in time and in a certain place. We have to study all that. We will study, we have to study our desires, our emotions, and whatever this personality of ours is expressing. We can do that. We can see the actions and the reactions, like in our way of thinking, and then that's an opportunity to catch the egoism and say, now I know I am not you. I was making a mistake, I was you. But now I find that I am a different being and entity than you are. And by studying our behavior, the way we are expressing ourselves and we are living, our desires, the nature of the desires, our emotions, we come to the conclusion that, yes, yes, the heart of this egoism of mine is myself, but I am not the whole of it, because I can control it now. I can change my desires, my emotions, and then observing better, I find out what? That during that behavior of my personality, reactions, actions, desires, and their reactions, when the desires have been fulfilled, they were giving me a kind of satisfaction, never happiness, a kind of satisfaction having the fatigue in them. I was feeling tired of it all the time. Placing them aside, new desires coming, satisfied or not satisfied, a kind of new desires coming. If my desires were not fulfilled, then other reactions were taking place in our personality, which I call enmity, jealousy, negative thinking, feeling in a negative way, creating now what I call bitterness in the world of separateness, making us feel separate from other human beings. Then we check in what we call our subconsciousness, which is the pulse and the heart of our egoism. We have to enter boldly in our personality's subconsciousness and see in it what is there, what we find. A smelly pool of unfulfilled desires or fulfilled desires, causing enmities, hatred, jealousy, and many other I wouldn't call sane conditions. So we have patiently now to study how to clean this dirty, bad-smelling pool in our personality, called subconsciousness. But it's not the whole subconsciousness, because we have the subconsciousness in three parts. The one part, which is under the domain of our egoist personality, the sum total of our elementals we are creating or revitalizing. The central part, which is holy, which is the source of energy, what I call esoteric vitality, which is the sanctum of our personality. The other side, which is holy, spiritual, and egoic, which are the best qualities, is what everybody can find out by introspection, seeing within, by observation, and right thinking. Now, as God had given us, the esoteric vitality and the air, oxygen, to breathe and live, so he has given us the mind. And I repeat, the mind is not that handful sometimes of very dirty matter, which are the brains, sometimes developing tumors. Now he's giving us the mind. Give us this day our daily bread. That's our daily bread, the esoteric vitality and the mind. And we are entitled to it, to use it. But are we using our mind? We are using all the parts of our body. Our feet, kicking, playing football, our hands, playing boxer, doing many other skillful works, and other parts of our body, except our mind. We expect others to think for us, which is wrong. We have to study now to use our mind. And I say, no one has more right to the mind than anybody else. And I don't agree that there is a fellow who can think better than you can think about your problems, than yourself, provided you want to do it. I never advise people when they present their problems to me, because I find that that is not right. First of all, you make them stop using their own logical mind. What else I say? Where am I in your place? I would do that or that according to my opinion. And the human nature is to listen. And like a monkey, imitate what is good or evil. When we catch this opportunity, speaking in this way, and let them now use their mind, this is the way one can help the other. Not by all the time making the other rely on him. No. So, everybody has to use his mind. Now, we are not using our mind. Definitely, every moment, but in the wrong way, which is creating elementals, negative elementals, just to satisfy petty, unholy sometimes, and unbridled desires. And whatever is drawing our attention, even before thinking about it, every thought, every desire, everything drawing our attention, is creating an elemental from the mind stuff, in which part of our subconsciousness? In that part, under the domain of the egoism. And so, every thought is coming through that, through past experiences of desires, wishes, and emotions. So, it is a vicious circle going on. We have to get three of it. Now, I can use the mind in the right way. Why should I be frustrated all the time? When I see anything around me, reshape it, just as the elementals are already in my subconsciousness. By so doing, I start cleaning the subconsciousness and creating new circumstances now of behavior, which lead to what? Now I know. Now I know who I am. And I am not what I thought I was before six months. Misunderstanding, quarreling, attacking, fighting, desiring, without controlling the desires. Now you are in a state to say, yes, now, I am not all that. Definitely, the ego will present itself and that's the right time to catch it. Now, now I know I am not you, and you are not me. You are the same, that I was you, and that you were myself. No, you are the sum total of the elementals. You, through me, were creating all the time to satisfy your own desires, which in reality were making me, after being fulfilled, tired. They were not giving me any time, full satisfaction. That's what we'll find out. Even when your desires are fulfilled, you will never find full satisfaction or happiness. Happiness is in the self-realization, when you find what you are. And that's not in the material world. Things, though you can have that state, living even in your material body. So, now we start studying the nature of the mind, as formless super-substance, as substance having in it forms. You can study now the mind, emotion, desires coming from impressions. You can study now the mind as ethereal, as you call it, etheric vitality, energy, light, everything, animating anything on the material plane. You can do that by observation, thinking about it, using the mind in the right way. So, we see things now under the light of reasoning, to find who we are at the end. Now, we have made just plain everything that happens to everybody. Now, which one of you will start studying the conditions of your life now? Are they pleasing you? Whom you? That's another thing to study. Now, you will study the reactions created in your present-day personality by the circumstances around you. Now, everybody is in the place, the divine super-intelligence has placed him to get his next lessons. We are in a school and we have to get our lessons. Sometimes very bitter, sometimes not so bitter, but we have to get our lessons. So, how? By studying sincerely now to check your desires, your intentions in life, your emotions and the way you are behaving under the burden of certain emotions. Jealousy, the feeling of possessiveness, the feeling of dominating, the feeling of deceiving, of lying. Now, sincerely, you have to put them down yourself. That means introspection, checking within. So, every honest individual now has to study his individuality and his personality to find out the truth. Check desires, emotions. Now, all desires are revealed. I had this question many times from members of our disciples. Of course not! And you are allowed to create elementals by thinking about them and Christ, your shamanic Christ, God on earth, said, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. That's nothing wrong in having in ourselves that impulse we call desire, but we have to check it. Is this desire necessary to be fulfilled now? Do I really need that? And so we have to classify now what is created in us and find out that unholy and unbridled desires are coming claiming. And by claiming it is behind them the personal egoism, making itself and ourselves suffering. No, no, no, no. Now I will decide, not you. This is another face of the egoism. You can touch him and check him. Say now, I must study what is this nature, the nature of desire, necessity. You are given everything in abundance. And Christ, the Logos, Joshua said, who is the one who will ask his Father to give him something to eat? Instead of giving him fish, he will give him a snake or a stone. And if you, human beings, not being so holy, you know how to give to your children good things. Is your heavenly Father not going to give you what is good for you? Good for us, not as we think it is good for us. Nobody is putting razor blades in the hands of children. So our heavenly Father, what is this heavenly Father? God, is he seeing us? Is he hearing us? Can he hear our prayers? He can know every thought. It is stupid to believe that the one who created even your material brains to think with them, he created them. He is not thinking. He is not understanding you. And he who created your eyes so that you will see with them, is not seeing. And the one who created your ears so that you will hear, is not hearing everything and you. Because he is omnipresent everywhere and in you. So you have to realize that. You can investigate that and find out the truth by introspection. After all, this is the whole teaching of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ when he came to the world. That was his teaching. So, checking now our behavior, our emotions, our desires, everything around us. Checking now the aftereffects of these desires, whether being fulfilled or not. We must reach to conclusions. Then we study and know the nature of the elementals. Every elemental has a form. Either we give it by our desires, as a ritual, something else. Or when we think about something, it gets a form according to its nature. Sometimes very repulsive forms. Children, Julia and I, can see these elementals. These hideous forms created by the quarrels of his parents. They shriek sometimes. I had before some days, a couple who came to me, claiming that they love each other, quarreling all the time, being jealous, even beating sometimes the husband, the wife, and breaking dishes, doing so many nonsense. Coming most miserable, saying, our little daughter, during the night, she's shrieking, waking up, trembling. What is the reason, sir? What can we do for her? Of course, I could guess from their thought, the whole condition. I said, well, take the child away and I'll speak to her. Of course, they have got the mother-in-law who took the child and said, change your behavior. Stop being stupid. Stop fighting. Stop doing all this nonsense. He said, but the child never heard us. The child said, well, yes, he didn't hear you with her ears, but she knows everything by the elementals you are creating. She can see them. She can feel them. Unless you change, maybe you are losing your child. They are looking at each other. I said, stop quarreling. Either separate if you cannot live together, or stop this stupid behavior. And I explained to them what are elementals and what they were creating or revitalizing subconsciously, what was in their subconsciousness, torturing them. Of course, these people became members of our circle. They are living a very, very peaceful and good life now. And the child is not seeing evil elementals, but elementals shrieking and shouting all the night. So, if you could see elementals of hatred, of envy, and of negative feelings in you, you'll be frightened. But, you should not come to despair. Start working. By understanding, studying the matter, start creating now positive and good elementals. Dis-energize evil or bad elementals, just for two reasons. The first reason, these elementals in the bodies of people are very bad poisons, creating many, many illnesses, even insanity. Daskalos-Jun-15-1992-B-Breath-of-Life You are studying the elementals, studying your subconsciousness, searching and analyzing your desires, your emotions, and the reactions which are in your present-day personality. Now you can get out of this confusion, but you must do it sincerely. You will find out, in most cases, leading to divorce, between human people, a man and a woman, is love. Rather, attraction, which will lead to love, but it may lead to love, if there is between these two people understanding. So, never mind. But they live together, doesn't matter. They start well. You may bring children. Duties now and responsibilities, which I have to treat them seriously. Now, these good people, 80% of the people, just fighting, quarreling, they continue doing so, without seeking betterment. In fact, who will do that? Let them learn. It's simple. Now going on with us. What do you think? 90% of the cases, they will find that, decide or not, it's not their personal egos presenting itself. You are mine, you are my one, you have to obey me. You have to do whatever I say, and whatever I want. What? You are my husband? No. This is elementals. Now it's the same for the living elementals. Coming forward. But instead of this, who could, instead of it, they create new elementals at the same time. The devil of dominating is making, not only in the family, in business, in the community, in nations. The children of God's dominion, they translate themselves in its favor. The devil has to be aware of that. The devil is appearing as an angel of light. 80%. The marriages are ending with a divorce. In fact, everything, everywhere in the world, in the so-called civilized countries, we have developed, we cannot just tell you good. Tell you to tell her, yes, she's not the man. She has trouble with another. There are no women who have money for cancer treatment. I'm very unlucky person. In my world, they are always just giving very bad names. Who keeps you so understanding? I don't care about the good people. Keep it to yourself. There's no such thing. Men. They become the ones who want to test him, or teach him, or teach him, then they start quarreling. No, we are in a company. What do you see in that company? They start, and everybody will just decide. Try to impress the others, which is weird. Sometimes failing nonsense. What about you? If you know the problem we are talking about, we are not telling you to tell her that. To say something that, to show them that you know everything. So the devil says nothing also. Try to keep silent. Listen. And study the things. And if you are asked, to give your opinion. Not to be gossipy. In every place there are going to see just the same. People talking too much. And most of the time, talking nonsense. Because they are not using their mind. They just stop and talk, and talk, and talk, and feel influenced by others, and try to influence the others. Then they go home, feeling very tired. Why? Because they are exhausted with their vitality. Anything we do, except talking, just feeling desires and emotions, apart from the elementals, good or bad, they are burning what we call our etheric vitality, our energy. And when this etheric vitality, our energy, is exhausted, then many illnesses will appear on the material body. Because we are deprived, we call it illness, the material just repeats and creates, and makes corrections in our bodies. Who is responsible then for the illnesses of the bodies? Not we. Not everybody. They are always under this wrong impression. You must study what is etheric vitality, what is energy, what it has given us, how much we are allowed to use it. You must study the way you are using, exhausting this so-called etheric vitality. We call it energy, it's energy that's there. So, let me discuss. Say, we are given 100 units every day. 40 units are enough for the whole life, 100 to make repairs in our life. 40 units are required by us for all our thinking and activity, and 20% remain surplus. We are given much more than what we need. What are we doing? We live the way we are living. And we are ending up in the 100 units, depriving the etheric vitality from their country, to repair injuries in our bodies. A strong sea of anger, shouting, quarrelling, is able to destroy the whole 100 units we get every day, feeling us completely exhausted, because we are living in the wrong way, what we call the mind fire, because this is for you to understand, that we are losing the subconsciousness. In the beginning, when you are angry, very angry, shouting, like rats, you become red, most of the time you are feeling hot, then you are feeling exhausted, you become pale, and tired. Why? Why waste your vital energy, so precious, in such a stupid way, hatred, but angry, everybody may be angry for some minutes, some hours, and then, oh, he will calm down, with shaking, like a cigarette, in him or in her, always, always burning the etheric vitality. What will happen to that person? All kinds of illnesses will appear. Cancer, heart disease, many, many illnesses will appear. Who is wrong now? Are now people willing just to change? Some of them, yes. Some, no. They know the truth about the present condition they are in. They don't want. They don't want to change. They have enmity, jealousy, and all these negative feelings, are very, very bad poisons in your body. So, it's the best thing to get rid of them. At least for your own sake, for your health sake. And, how should we not find our real self, set ourselves free, from the 10th place, circumstances, become masters of these circumstances, and not slaves of these circumstances. They are masters of the circumstances they are living in. And how many are the slaves of these circumstances? We can be masters of the circumstances by using the mind, thinking, right thinking, being calm, serene. I've had many people come to me in the past, oh, okay, my God, because he's meeting people who are just torturing him, this and that, but do not understand him at all in that. All the time being out on his job, getting tired, quarreling, they don't understand him, they want to treat him, and then leave him. And that's not only the case. Coming home, he finds a reason to keep his wife and children, shouting, doing things, becoming obsessed and ill. I've seen many, many people, some of them happily become reasonable. No, you don't need to change much. Try to be more tolerant and patient. Try to understand people, instead of trying to force your will on them, and on that. So, who teaches us all that? People around us. But do they know these lessons? Try to teach them to others. Who will teach us all that? The use of the mind in the proper way. We have no excuse. We are given the mind, that's why we are given the air, and we breathe. We have to use it, to start thinking. Or, we get our lessons in a different way, by the whip of destiny. Everything has an effect. Not as a punishment, but as a lesson given by the law. So, are we getting our lessons, even in this bitter and undesirable way? Sooner or later, we will. But how long should we suffer until we get our lessons? And why not just use the mind in the right way, to study things, study circumstances, and study ways how we will live a better life. How to develop, in ourselves, what I call patience and tolerance. And how to annihilate completely and exterminate this devil in our personality, we call our personalities, egos. So, we have just to study our subconsciousness, find out this devil, which is making itself unhappy, and us also. So, I think the future of everyone, not only of me, is such a solution, is to get out of this muddy condition of all those egoistic elementals composing this or that personality. And by so doing, one comes to the point of studying this present day self. You say, yeah, but you said that this present day self is the egoist, which you suggest that we should exterminate or annihilate. No. Not of that. The expression is the egoist. The perceiver of the personality is you, is God. You have just to free that from the egoist. So, by annihilating, exterminating this energy element, we are not losing anything, because even your personality, free from its egoist, is holy. Even that self of yours, we will find out by cleaning it, is you. So, not to separate the perceiver, we will call, egoist, from the nature, even of that present day personality, which is you again. That was the reason you were making the mistake that you were the egoist. But that part has to be cleaned and transmitted into your inner self, to the soul self. And try to think about it. The perishable will become imperishable and the mortal will become immortal, because it is immortal. So, even the parts of life, your own personality, is God. But you have to clean that personality, take away from that personality the rags of egoism. You have nothing to lose. By so doing, you have to gain much. You have to gain your self. And it's what I say, self- realization as an ego soul, the self-realization as a spirit, divine selfhood. Because it's rather difficult now to enter in these great truths in very high meanings. Now, we'll make some exercises. Now, relax completely. Every muscle should be relaxed. Start from the feet, the thighs, the belly, the chest, the hip. Relax completely. Yet, feel that you are in this material body. You are in the material body. You are in the material body. No matter how perfect this material body is, the work of the Holy Archangel is not yourself. It's given you to live in it. A great honor indeed. They are looking after it. It's not you. And you live in it. You. Who? You. Don't bring before your mind now your name, your personality. You are not all that. That's the shadow on the cross matter of yourself. You are not that. Forget your name. But don't forget your human form in your cross material body now. You are in it. You are that human material form. Calm down completely all desires and emotions. Free your human form even from the psychical influences. Keep a luminous human form even free of thoughts. You are feeling only. You are you in your bodies. Breathe deeply and comfortably. The breath of life. The etheric vitality. Breathe deeply and feel the whole material body of yours. You are in it. See it luminous in a white light. See a white light inside your cross material body. The whole earth conscious working in your material body are aware of what you are doing now and they are rejoicing. See this material body of yours radiating white light. And say to your subconsciousness I want perfect self to be in this material body I call mind. Your subconscious mind will do it. Starting the subconscious mind you will find out that the subconscious mind gets and executes orders without using reason or thinking. See in your body and around your body a luminous white light. Breathe it. Breathe deeply seeing that this light is increasing and say with your mind I want perfect self to be in this material body of mine. Call it yours. Put this question to yourself Who am I? Who is that self of mine creating a personality of a man or a woman within that group of elementals good or bad which I call my personality. What is that self who can recompose this personality who can change this personality who can clean this personality in every 24 hours you as a present day personality are entering in a world of nonexistence as if you are not existing in deep dreamless sleep. Yet you wake up in the morning and that mysterious selfhood of yours is recomposing your personality and you are not less to what you were before going to sleep. Mary is Mary and George is George. Who is that self which recomposes the time and place shadow of himself this happens every 24 hours sometimes more times you get some sleep at noon say who am I that mysterious I-ness who is never lost and who is able to recompose my personality as it is. I want to know what I am as a soul ego as that divine selfhood my self is not the shadow it's casting on the cross matter. What am I? Don't expect to have the answer now. You will get it sometime by your guardian archangel the time he will find that he will understand what he will say to you. What am I now as a present day personality having a name emotions liking and disliking things a self which is everyday changing what am I as that personality how to study even that living in this life destiny or holy providence placed you amongst other people nothing is by chance what were your relations with all those people around you your connections you should love them all the gods are loving if you had some difficult moments with certain people, male or female around you in your business, in your family in your home maybe you are separated from those people see that you don't have any bitterness in your heart if they are wrong you are doing the same wrong because all of you are human beings doing mistakes you are human beings as you are making mistakes yet they are gods like yourself as soul egos bring these people in your mind by visualization see them in front of you now don't see them angry or complaining see them smiling and see from your heart a light coming out as a sun lighting all the place there see that light on their face and tell them that you love them and mean it you are applying to their soul now not to their personality you don't need meet them again or live with them again no need but you bring their soul in front of you attached to their soul ego give them love and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us of course this was said by to reduce as we forgive those who are transgressing against us we are Christians are not to forgive but to love forgiving is an expression of the personal egoism but love is an expression of the soul ego never mind we repeat this prayer but we Christians will give it another meaning there is no need to forgive anybody we will love all in this way we are sending elementals of love which will work to our brothers or sisters to build the world and you we should start from ourselves not from others and the others seeing us will follow it is wrong to try to correct the others one should correct himself or herself tomorrow we will continue the lesson on the elementals because this subject is so big that volumes and volumes can be written without exhausting it and each one has by himself observation and meditation study this nature of the elementals start working in subconsciousness Daskalos-Jun-29-1992-A-Wakeful-Life Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and to all other human beings. Amen. A day is going, another day is coming. And so, weeks, months, and years are going, and we are living. Why? What for we are living? We are living in a human body, in a material body, for which the holy archangels of the elements, the mind elements, are laboring and are working unceasingly to keep it in good health. Why? For us? For whom? Why? Why? Is that work just in vain, for no purpose? There is not an aim behind it. No. We are living just in a community, a family, in a nation, as human beings, each one his or her own life. If we ask all these persons living in our place, in our country, in our community, in our nation, if they are satisfied, what do we think they will reply to you? That they are satisfied? No. At least, most of them will say, no. So many troubles, so many things torturing us. Then you have the right to ask them and say, why? Why you have so many things torturing you and making you suffer? And who is responsible for that? They should put the question to themselves, as we should put this question to ourselves. But people are avoiding to put this question to themselves. They find faults all the time on the others. Never on themselves. They are never wrong. All around them are wrong. All around them are behaving in a bad way, except themselves. Now, a seeker of the truth, and in reality every human being, should start thinking using his mind. What is life? Who am I? What is going on around me? Start using the mind to study, so that he will know at least the relative truth behind the phenomena. Can he do that? Of course he can. But he doesn't do it. Why? Because he thinks he has more important things to do. Torturing himself with troubles, with worries, with a kind of living who is not giving satisfaction. What one should do, or should be taught to do, soon he starts thinking. I mean, being an adult, a man or a woman, he should be taught to use his or her mind and the right thinking. Not just expect to find things as they are, from the family, from the parents, from the society, and just go on doing the same mistakes, doing the same stupid life, leading to worries, pain, suffering. Leading to overgrowing a stupid personal egoism, by obeying blindly desires and emotions, without studying what they are. And why should we just follow all that? What for? So everybody is becoming slave of the circumstances others have created, and of his unwillingness to use the mind to think. Think what? First of all, who is he or she as a person in that society? What he or she is expecting from life? In a reasonable way now, not of course following the example of all those around him or her, in the family or in the community, since they will see that they are not happy. That they are suffering. He or she should be taught. What is a desire? How a desire is created? How that desire is dominating over us, enslaving us? What this desire, fulfilled or not fulfilled, is offering us, can offer us. He must be taught what is desire. Now, of course, these are things that he should start working on. But before he should just start thinking, what do I expect from life? What life can offer me? And what is life expecting from me? Because life, or God, is expecting something from us. He didn't send us just to live without any purpose. Just think. So many Archangels of the mind elements, Caprils, Raphaels, Michaels, Urials, and all that working in a material body just to keep it in good health. Just study what work is needed to keep all those organs in the body, not only alive, but all the time fit to serve us. And then put the question, why? What for all this toil and trouble from the holy Archangels? We are living in a material body. I'm telling you, not by right, by the grace of God. Because we don't deserve it. At least most of us do not deserve living in this body, which is created and sustained by the holy Archangels. So just only that should wake us up to think properly. Because, yes, life needs from us something. We should not all the time claim and claim and claim to have from life. So, an adult, young man or a young woman, should just be taught to put things down and ask themselves, what do I expect from life? And what I should expect from life? There are two different things. Maybe contaminated by the circumstances, by the parents, by the society, by the family, by the community, we'll go on the same stupid ways. It's not what do I want from life, but what I should like having from life. Just come to the conclusion. Sitting around in the family, he may see sick persons, in the family or in the environment. He must seek a healthy body. He or she is entitled to it. And this is very, very natural. What is unnatural is the illness and not the good health. Then start thinking, how can I have this good health in my body? And avoid getting illnesses by using the mind. One should know how to do it. Second, what must I expect from life? Because now the circumstances count, the family financial condition, the community financial condition, what the community can offer. And now say, according to what I have before me, he can have changes for the better, living in another place. That's all right. They must think about it. If not, what the present circumstances are offering me. Because I am in those circumstances to learn my lessons. Why should he or she be born in that family, in that community, in that place, in that nation? Because for everything there is reason behind it. Nothing is by chance. So now finding himself or herself in certain circumstances, he or she should see what according to the present circumstances I must do to qualify myself to live a satisfactory life to me and to the others. I mean the right education. And then see if he or she has the means for that. Now in the present time everybody has the chance to educate himself or herself in any place of the world. Now, apart from that, what is life offering me? And what do I expect from life? Become rich. Very, very, very rich. Why? Become that or that or that or that. So, one should put things in the balance all the time and use reason. I have these desires, having that and that and that and that. Should I have them? Why? Do I need them? Why? Because the others have it and I should have it. So, one should just study what is this impulse of possessiveness and what can that give a man. Now, is that necessity or greediness? Maybe one of the two. Maybe both. Just start thinking. Then, think of something else. In this life, we have things pleasing, satisfying, giving us more or even more and more satisfaction. And there are things and conditions giving us the contrary. Dissatisfaction, more pain, sorrow, agony. So, this is the point one should engage himself or herself with. In this life, I must have something either from the one side or from the other side. Of course, all the time, you will have either from the other side or the other side. And you must find out that. Pleasing things, satisfaction of desires, maybe satisfaction of certain emotions, are giving us some pleasure. You must study this kind of pleasure. Is this pleasure or satisfaction lasting? And if not, why it is not just going on? It has an end to it. Then, from the other side, something giving us pain, trouble, dissatisfaction. Can we avoid it? If we go on like that, what will be the end of it? Clashes, sorrows, enmities. Sometimes, you shall observe something else within us. Obstinacy. A devilish why now? Why that and that and that and why should I not do that or that or that? But, here is needed the reason. Is it worthwhile just prolonging this evil way of living? All these things do happen every day in our life, in all the communities, in all the places, everywhere. You will see it clearly. People are finding themselves in such states of living. So, how to come out of it? Here is the main point. By using the mind. And I said in a lesson, a man is using all the members of his body, feet, hands, and everything except his mind. He is expecting others to think for him or for her. And that's wrong. That's the reason for every pain and misery coming to a human being. So, what should schools and parents, what they should teach the young boys and girls? Mathematics? Yes, why not? To forget them after a little while they leave the school. Geography? That's good, just to know something about the planet and the people living there. And again, to forget it after they leave school. Algebra? Geometry? They are good things to be taught. History? This is very dangerous. Wars, hatreds, and all that, they should go away from the schools. Which means, at least three-fourths of what is taught in the schools is not only unnecessary, but dangerous. What a man should be taught? What's life? Who and what he is or she is? Say, psychology? Parapsychology and all that? Yes. Yes, from the school, but unfortunately this science is in its infancy yet. All sciences have advanced except this parapsychology and psychology. Because in psychology and parapsychology, I mean using the mind observation and the actions and reactions of a personality. Do you have now psychiatrists? They claim that they are psychiatrists. After all, I have many in our circles calling themselves psychiatrists, having just a diploma to hang on the wall. And doing nothing. They are failing completely. Unless they know what they should do. So, what a man or a woman should learn was to be a good psychologist. He or she can become one by using the mind. In just arranging his or her relations with the other human beings. He should know how the others are behaving and why they are behaving and in which way he or she has to behave. To balance things. So, a man, a young man or a woman, have to learn how to use their mind. Thinking. Now, we start studying it. And we see that until the present moment, most people, they are isolating the mind as such, inserting the desires. Many times these desires were unbridled and stupid. And emotions, most of the time egoistic behavior. This is wrong. Now, he or she should decide to free the mind from being slave of desires and emotions. He or she, himself or herself, start using the mind, studying the emotions and the desires and decide if they are to be satisfied. And now, being master of thought, he or she should know how to use the mind to satisfy those desires. Because I don't mean that all desires are evil or useless. If that was so, why God allowed all that to come in us? So, one should first learn how to use their mind as master of everything and not slave of desires or of emotions. Emotions. One who studies his or her emotions. Now, a good psychoanalyst can know much hearing people talking about their sufferings and the things that are troubling them. What one finds out? That the emotions, all those people, men or women, who are calling love is on egoistic foundations. And that was not love at all. Because love for those people meant the slavery of the other one, man or a woman, to our egoism, to our personality, to obey us. To flatter us. And, if that was not so, the contrary would happen. Despising at first and even enmity. Cruelty. Now, one should just think soberly. I feel, I have this feeling. What is the quality of this feeling? To satisfy God? To me, it is. But what for? To enslave a living being, male or female, to my desires? Just to my hands. To handle that fellow the way I like. But every human being has his or her own will, which sooner or later will not stand this behavior from the other part. What we see day and night all around us in this society? People claiming that they love each other from the opposite sex. At the beginning, marrying or living without being married, to start fighting, quarreling, separating, and if they are married, to end with divorces. Living victims. I said before, we want much from life, but life wants enough also from us. Because if you give life to children, you cannot sacrifice them on the altar of a satanic egoism. And stupidity makes young souls unhappy. And giving them very, very bad lessons, just to continue like that their life. So, who is responsible for all this misery, which is now in the world, in all the communities, in all the countries? Yes, we said that. The personal egos. Egos of a personality. And, because people do not know, or they do not want to use their mind. Use their mind now. How? Just to check that monster in them called egoism. So, the most important lesson is, for one, to keep on the alert, criticizing his personality's behavior, finding behind it that monster called egoism, Egoism, because of all misery, because of all crimes committed. Now, one would say, but is that an easy thing to do? The easiest thing to do, if you decide to look better and see that this egoism of yours is not really yourself. But as long as you think the egoism of your personality is yourself, it is very difficult. I am telling you that. Egoism is very, very cunning to masquerade itself as being yourself. So, it needs much thinking. The will of making what you call self-analysis, and you find out the reality. And here is the greatest gain you have, which is, now, I am not what I thought I was, just an obstinate egoism of a personality, but I am the one who can think, decide, and master things. And I think this is a great gain. So, using the mind soberly, we can study and find the relative truth concerning circumstances and things in our life. These are the means how we can save ourselves from troubles, misery, and illness. Illness, because I am telling you, all kinds of illnesses coming to a human body are coming from the psychical body. They are psychosomatic. They appear, first of all, in the psychical plane, and then they appear on the physical body. All hatred, complaints, bad behavior, obstinacy, are poisons in the material body. And these things are giving a kind of self-punishment. Self-punishment. There is not any punishing God or punishing archangels. The archangels are ceasingly working in our bodies, just to remedy all the sicknesses, to close wounds, to join bones. We are poisoning our bodies and our self with the way we are living, we are thinking, we are behaving. So, one should know that the so-called weaknesses, jealousies, enmities, hatred, and all that, have in them already the punishment. And one should be careful about that. Now, using the mind, studying things and circumstances all around us, we can know certain laws governing life. We can study laws governing the physical nature and everything physical on the material plane. And we find out that nature is governed by laws which cannot be changed. The law of gravity, the law of cohesion, so many things. All the worlds and all the universes are governed by laws in the psychical universe. And as our material body should obey, and it is under those physical laws of the physical world, so is our psychical body. So, there are laws under the laws of the psychical world. There are laws also in the neurotic plane, the world of thoughts. So, there are laws in the world of emotions, of desires, and of thoughts. And as long as we use them to build up our present-day personality, from them we are just the ones responsible for what comes to us as a result of our contraventions. By using the mind and observation, we can find out these laws. And these laws are just to serve us if we are not going against them. So, one has to think, to observe, and insist to know. And that knowledge will come to him or to her. Now, illness in the material body. Can we get rid of this illness? Which illness? Any kind of illness. If it is not, of course, too late. How? By changing our attitude. Changing in such a way as to stop the cause of this illness. That illness will stop. Even cancers. Yes, many times I have seen even cancers stop torturing a fellow. Why not all of them? Because all of them are not willing to change. They are not willing to become good people, good persons, loving persons. You say, but is that an easy thing? Just in a day or two to change your character. Then, one has to suffer. That is not possible for him or her. But I don't think it isn't possible. If one wants to have that change. That the cause of illness is guilt, subconsciously felt. We can see it in the Bible. First of all, Christ, before curing someone, he felt the need to lighten that personality from the burden of guilt. St. Paul says, your sins are forgiven. That was a kind of suggestion. Coming out of suggestion. He was believing it. He was cured. So, there are psychological teachings in the Bible. Second is what we call faith. What is faith? Believing. Believing. German fellow believed something which is not real. Impossible. Believing means learning, studying, knowing, and believing. And he said, your faith has saved you. So, knowing the loss, governing, health. I mean, knowing the loss of the psychical world is really living a man. Is that all we can learn by using the mind? No. Using the mind every day we have to learn new and new things, which we need to know in our life. We can learn the natural laws. Not, for instance, because those will come on our head. Learn the law of gravity. We should learn by using the mind and observation. So, our life should be a continuous study. Study life, what is in life. Study our material body, how to keep it in good health. Study the most important lesson. Our personality. Now, this is the point. Who is studying the personality? Are we double? Because who will study, will concentrate, insist to know, and who is the other one? That self of ours, to be criticized, to be studied with many, many faults. Many, many faults. Who will see these faults now? And who will decide how these faults would be corrected? Who is the other self? Who will reason these faults? Want to continue these faults because says they are pleasing him? Then this is the point you catch your egoism. Say, you know, I am not you. I am your master. Till this present moment you are deceiving me that you are myself. Making me to behave in such a way to be ashamed. Making me behave in such a way which gives me pain. It gives you also pain, but the egoism is a masochist. He likes that pain because that gives him the sense of living. But that doesn't satisfy us. Using the mind, we find the relative truth concerning our personality. Relative truth. But the real truth behind it is still something more. We are not the personality. And the self behaving as the personality. But we will find out that our self behind the personality is just a glorious self. But even so, we shall study now the self, master of the present, the personality. So I find our self, our real self, expressing itself in various stages. And we'll study what we call awareness, consciousness, subconsciousness, superconsciousness. Because these are much, much more difficult things to deal ourselves with for the time being. You cannot do that unless we are free from our personal egoism, who disturbs us all the time, claiming and claiming and claiming the satisfaction of desires, believing that that egoism is serving us. So it needs much thought, concentration, and especially observation. Nothing should escape our attention. Which means starting our life. Our life. Usually people go just to interfere in the life of the others. Criticize the others. Claim changes from the others. They don't start from themselves. Finding faults in others. The same faults in them are not observed. They are growing. And maybe sometimes we find them as virtues. So we have now to use the right measure. I had the other day an experience. I was in a friend. His son, about 12 years of age, has done something which for me is very stupid and very bad to do it. If that fellow would have seen that done by the son of his friend, he would say, oh, look at this stupid boy, why he is doing that. That isn't good. He shouldn't do it. But because his son has done it, his son was clever, and he would just present it as, yes, what a clever boy my son, and he did that. Unfortunately, I am a mannerly Cypriot, and I don't avoid giving slaps. Of course, not publicly, but I got him from there. I went there and said, you need two slaps now. If that is done by a neighbor, you will find that neighbor boy is clever, because your son has done it. Oh, what a clever boy, he thought about it, doing this. Daskalos-Jun-29-1992-B-Wakeful-Life Now, this fellow, after two days, was speaking to some other friends, and he said, Daskalos, he doesn't like me, and he doesn't like my son either. I thought he loved me. We talked so much, but no, he doesn't like me. He didn't lose the opportunity. He said, you come here. You are mistaken. In reality, I love you, and I love your son. I don't like stupidities. Then I said, we'll change your attitude towards your son, because you will spoil him. I like the boy. That's why I'm pointing out that he shouldn't have done it. Now, I don't know if he understood that, or not. Now, what do I want to say? We should always use one measure. For us, for our boys, for the neighbors, for everybody. Not two measures. And the right measure, that means not overdoing it, to be strict to the children. No. It's very bad. To punish children, punish others, that's still too bad. So I prefer some of these measures to break them and throw them away. Not use them at all. But use golden measures now. Not measures made of wood, or iron, or other material. Golden measures. Which means love. If you are using this measure, which is love, expressing love, and then pointing out things in a gentle way, the others are ready to accept it. Otherwise, they will not. So we have just to study the character of the people. That means psychology. And according to their character, to use the method to change them. No. To enlighten them. Not to change them. Not for the sake of changing them. But for the sake of making them feel happier. And more reasonable in life. Because unless we are going to believe that we should change them, we are not serving anybody except our egoism. Because we should be very careful. Because the egoism is a devil presenting itself as an angel of light. They said before that the egoism of the personality is very, very cunning. And we should be always very, very careful. Careful not allowing the egoism to interfere. Neither presenting itself as an angel of light. Even presenting itself as charity and goodness. We shall see what is behind all that. Because in life, one should be always careful. Many, many things are deceiving. And one should be careful not to be deceived. Using the mind again. In how many ways? In every way and always. This is what we need. Just to learn how to use our mind. How to use it as reasoning thought. Nothing should escape our attention. Good or bad. I don't like the word evil. There is no evil man. No human being is evil. Stupid, yes. Ignorant, yes. And at the same time unhappy. Self-punishing, yes. But not evil. Because no human being, being a god in nature, can be evil. Must have this in our mind. So hating a human being is hating God. I cannot hate a human being. As I said and I repeat it. There are not evil people. They can be ignorant, stupid, unhappy people. Always unhappy. If they are stupid. But not evil. And something else. You cannot help any human being by criticizing him. Her. Or with enmity and hostility. No. Our human beings around us. Those who we call evil. Are in need of our love. They are not in need of our hatred or complaints. Or criticism. I said that one should never criticize. Should have this in mind. You will never be able to help someone. Criticizing of her. Hating, despising. You will never be able to help them. So a real human being should have a heart. Radiating love. Love as a bright sun. Just lighting the faces of every human being. When the sun is giving us light. There are good people and evil people. Is he denying that light. The heat and warmth. To those we consider evil. No. So, likewise. You are supposed to make our hearts a sun. That must be a sun. Radiating love. Love for everyone. And this love. This light. Everybody is in need of. To find his way. And those we call sinners. Criminals. Thieves. Names given to people. By the others. Usually by those who are just the same as they are. Because if you are not like that, you will never observe that. So, all these people are not in need of our criticism. They are in need of our love. Guidance. Guidance. Nobody will accept guidance. Even your children. And Christ didn't say. Guide the people. Because he was the greatest psychologist in the world. He said. Thus should be the light of what you do. Your actions. So that the others would see it and follow it. He said that in Greek. Not only that. And glorify your heavenly father. Christ was speaking in the Greek language and in Aramaic. So in the bible. Written in Greek. Are the real teaching of Christ. What was said by the mouth of Christ. So. The people are not in need of our guidance. By asking them to change. But by following us. Seeing what we are doing. Now. One should try to find. I am doing this for of criticizing people around me. Most of the people are doing that. Criticizing. Just gossiping. Now. Usually in a society. There are many many rumors. Of course for everything there must be a cause behind it. The enmity of someone against somebody else. And they are creating imaginary stories against that fellow. And of course these people like that to spread out. All these rumors. Are we sure. Being in a place. Hearing these rumors. Are we sure. We are using our mind and reason. Not accepting. All those things. Not allowing ourselves to continue interfering. And saying something. We suspect. This is what happens in all communities. But I heard so. Because I heard so. You think you have the right to repeat it. What is the reason I am saying. Now. We know that every thought. Is creating an elemental. Elementals are all around us. Especially the elementals. On gossip. To strengthen these elementals. Or by avoiding taking place. We try to dis-energize them. Attacking those who are spreading the rumors. It's stupid. Because doing so. They will insist spreading more. So that's not the best way. Best way is keeping silent. Saying nothing. And sending. Just an elemental of kindness. To both. The accuser. And the accused. And just the warm wish. That they should reconcile. And love each other. This is the right behavior. So I have given so many ways. In using in the right way. The mind has thought. And that's the proper behavior. Tomorrow it will be the last lesson. For this season. We will speak more about the elementals. From a different point of view now. As torturing devils. Torturing demons. Because during these days. I see many many people coming to me. Just saying that they are obsessed. By demons. By so many things. In reality they are under the burden of their own evil elementals. So the best thing is. Instead of encouraging these things. Advise these people. To change their own attitude. Their way of thinking. Because. We are the first to be attacked by the malicious elementals. That we are creating. That's clear. So one should be responsible. For what he is creating. Every moment. Human beings are using the mind in the wrong way. Everybody is using the mind. But in the wrong way. Not as masters of the mind. Using right thoughts. But just in mixing up. In the gossip. In the way people are thinking around them. Just adding something to it. So we should be now careful. In how to use this holy super substance of the mind. Because we should see the mind. Not only as thought. But also as energy. Having thought. As elementals. Affecting the life of everybody around us. And our life. So if we are just to correct this world. We should correct ourselves. In how we are using the mind. Now we make an exercise. Take breaths. Comfortably. Deep breaths. And relax completely. Your material body. Feel you are completely relaxed. Start from the feet. Knees, belly, chest, head. You are completely relaxed. Now relax yourself. From every thought. Or feeling. Forget who you are. Feel you are in the whole body. And not in the head. Just feel your body. You are in the whole body. Free from desires and emotions. Completely. And of thoughts. You are now in your material body. Feeling it. Now put a question to yourself. I am living in this material body. This moment the Holy Archangels are working in my material body. In every blood cell. In the blood. In every artery. In every vein. In every organ. Everywhere. These Holy Archangels are working. For me. For me to feel I am living in this material body now. Considering me a God. I am feeling my material body. I am in it. I have the right to be in it. Am I using the material body in the right way? Do I give really love with my material body? Or am I just caressing a child with my hand? Giving a kiss. Embracing somebody I love. Or I give slaps instead. And kicks. I am allowed to express myself through this material body in many ways. Using the eyes. Seeing. Very serious work of the Archangels of the elements. To keep the liquids of the eyes. In such a state as I would see through my material eyes. Using my mouth. Not only in eating. But in speaking. Talking. Am I sure I am using my mouth? Talking in the right way? Giving love? Or wounding? Offending? Humiliating the others? Am I using really the speech, a gift of the Father who deprived it from the other animals around me, in the right way? Christ said, what enters through the mouth is giving you no heart. What is coming out of the mouth is very harmful sometimes. For which you should be careful. Who am I? How do I behave? Am I the master of my behavior? Or the victim of an egoism? Enough. Daskalos-Mar-2-1993-A-Same-as-the-Source Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to show our love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Just a repetition. What is, is the absolute, infinite beingness. The absolute, infinite reality. What is, was, and will always be. Now, what exists now. And is also. The absolute, infinite beingness. The El Shaddai, the Locus. So, the Locus is the absolute, infinite beingness. Manifesting itself in itself. Manifesting in what way? Expressing its total wisdom and its almightiness. So the almightiness and the total wisdom is in the absolute, infinite beingness. And now it is expressed, manifested through that quality. We don't have a second God now. The absolute, infinite beingness is the absolute, infinite beingness also. I and the Father are one. Says Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, feeling himself as the El Shaddai, the Locus. So, we have now the manifestation. We said before that in the absolute, infinite beingness are billions and billions and billions and billions beyond numbers. We can't call them now beings yet. There is not God for it. But we will call them beings the time the absolute, infinite beingness is becoming the absolute, infinite beingness, the Locus. So manifested this, let us call them Gods. The same as the absolute, infinite beingness. They are not inferior. They are the same in nature. They have in them the total wisdom and the almightiness. So we call them now beings. As we said yesterday, these beings, Gods, passing through, what we call the prism, the will pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness to express itself, in itself, they are classifying themselves according to their nature. Who knows? What is this nature? Who can say that the light, colorless, passes through a prism, becomes red, blue and yellow? It becomes. It's its nature. So the same way, these beings now, passing through the El Shaddai, the Locus, the manifestation of the absolute, infinite beingness, having in them, as their own nature, the nature of the beingness, the total wisdom and the almightiness, classify themselves to their Archangelic orders. As Mahals. It's not an Archangel called Mahal or Michael. There are billions and billions and billions of Mahals. And Raphaels. And Urals. And Gabriels. Billions. As there are thousands of human beings. With the difference now, all the Archangels of the same order, the Mahals, have their own individuality and they are all yet one. Because they are not separated from each other. They enjoy all of them, their whole Archangelic selfhood. So think a Mahal, you see all Mahals. See a Gabriel, you see all Gabriels. Think a man, you don't see all human beings as having the same character and the same way of living. So only the human genus, I'll call it in this way, because the Archangels are a system. They are Archangelic systems. Now the human beings, it's hard to call by the Greek word, genus. Each one of us is a separate personality. This is the difference. We have entered completely in what I would say is the world of existence, the world of separateness. They are not separated from each other, but we are as human beings. Now, we said that these beings, through the El Chetai or the Locos, passing, classify themselves according to their own nature, to their Archangelic order. Their vibrations sound their names. These names have not been given by human beings. It is just the vibrations, a sound of their nature. We said that. When the Absolute Infinite, Penis, expresses itself now as the Absolute Infinite Beingness, the Locos, this creates the mind. Immediately, the mind emanates from the Absolute Infinite Beingness as the means of manifestation. And from this, the Archangelic beings, definitely, they are exactly the same as the Source. So, the mind emanates from all the Archangelic orders, but now, colored. We have the mind now in different rates of vibrations and frequencies. According to the work they are going to do in the world of creation, of the manifestation, we have now the mind elements. We said that. Everything which has been created is now and will be created following the total wisdom and the Almightyness of these Archangelic orders and of their Source. The Locos is made of what we call the mind. Nothing in manifestation is not the mind. So, the mind, as human intelligence can understand it now, is the formless super- substance. The substance having in it the forms. Then we have that kind of mind expressing the will-pleasure for manifestation. Pleasure. I won't call it desire. We call it the psychical worlds. Then we have the in-between vibrations which we call ether. The ethereal worlds. Then we have the material world. When I say material world, I mean the planet, this satellite, all planets, all solar systems, all galaxies, and everything material in this world of existence. That's not only our planet. So, the planet is a solid mind studying matter. You will find that. This matter consists of atoms and splitting an atom. Autodox science now found it out and all mystics knew it all through the centuries. It's a solar system. There's a nucleus, electrons, protons, neutrons, and all things behaving the same way in an atom of matter as the solar system. Having in it the mind as the total wisdom and the almightyness of the creator. An atom of matter. So, in an atom of matter we have a solar system. So, now we see the mind. Of course, when we see the mind, as most human beings think, is this a handful of the tulips of the brain? No, that's a handful of clay, of matter. I said in a lesson that a battery is not electricity. It may be charged with electricity, but it may not have any charge. It is thrown away. So, it is not the material brains in the skull which is the mind. You say, what is our mind then? Are we in the absolute universal mind? Yes. We are in the absolute matter on the planet. Yet, we have our own body. We have our own existence, our own individuality. We are living on the material plane. We are getting matter and take out of our material body matter. Yes, that is true. But we have our own material body which is separated from all other material things on the planet. Likewise, we are in the pansympathetic mind, yet we have our own mind-self. Mind-self, why do I use now the word self? Because the self is expressed through the mind. Of course, the self is not the mind, but it is expressed through the mind. Then we study that when we shall study what is consciousness and all the degrees of consciousness in the world of existence. So, though we are on the material world all around us, matter, yet we have our own material body. Likewise, though we are in the ocean of the mind, because the mind is everywhere, we have our own mind. We make our own mind, given to us by whom? Our material bodies are given to us by the Locusts and the Holy Archangels of the elements. Likewise, we are given our human mind. But this is something you will understand. Our human mind is not ourselves. We need it. As human beings, we need to have a material body which is sustained by the Holy Archangels of the elements. We need to have this so-called psychical body, the ethereal, the ethical body. We need to have it. But are we in need of it? We ourselves as spirit, soul, egos? No. As human beings, yes, but not as gods, as spirit, soul, egos. Because when we reach that state, that stage of existence, we are similar to all the other Lords of the elements. The mind emanates from us, from our spirit, soul, ego. Now, we shall see the two natures of a human being. The human, the personality in existence, in the world of existence, all the time under change, and our immortal nature as spirit, soul, ego being. So the seeker of the truth is studying, first of all, his human nature through that study to find in it his real self. Do we have two selves? Phenomenically, yes, but naturally, no. But we can find that self even in our present day personality. There we shall find our self and from there we shall enter in the self, to quote a quote, the self-realization. Now, returning back to the creation, we said that the beings passing through the locus selfhood, the word selfhood is common, as we have our material body, which is the across material body, and we have blood cells, atoms, molecules, everything in our body, so we have our self in what we call the locus selfhood. In the locus, we are little selves in it. That's why when Joseph Emmanuel the Christ feeling himself being the locus, a pure ray of the locus, was feeling that everybody around him was part of himself, and he gave it just in a parable. So, Joseph Emmanuel the Christ was feeling and as a human being, but most as the locus himself, feeling being inside everybody, in the self of every other feeling, being the common locus selfhood. That's what he was expressing so much compassion towards all human beings, because we are in himself. Now, this is rather difficult to understand, the difference between the self and the common selfhood. Likewise, I said, each archangel of any order, Michael, is feeling its individual archangelic self, yet he is one with the archangelic selfhood of his order. Not only that. And with the archangelic selfhood of all the other archangels. To understand it, we must understand the difference between being enslaved in the world of separateness and just being in the whole. That's very difficult to understand, indeed. And to understand it, you must, through introspection, through many years, maybe through many centuries, you'll find that your real self-spirit, soul-ego is one with the self-spirit-ego of every other one in the locus. You'll say, I, and you, I, and everybody, are one. You'll understand what is oneness, through what I would call the at-one-ment. These are stages of the consciousness on higher and higher, deeper or deeper levels, because we are not in place now or in space, we are in conditions. Now, we'll return again from where we started. The holy archangels, those divine beings, those gods, in God, passing through that prism, I call it, the real pleasure of the infinite beingness, to manifest itself in itself, because, manifest, they are also nature, becoming lords of the elements, lords of the mind, because all the elements are in the mind. So, they dress themselves with what I call light mind. The mind is light. Everywhere is the mind, everywhere is the nature of the infinite beingness, which is the light. Can we say that God is the light? The manifestation of God is the light, of course, but let us call God and all divine beings the light. That's not only the light, the nature of the infinite beingness, and the beings, the archangels, it's life. It's life. The light, definitely it is, but not the light emanating from the sun. The light, we call light, emanating from the sun and being reflected, giving us impressions, are only a very small frequency of vibrations of the ether mind. The mind ether. So, the light, something great. It is one of the natures of the absolute infinite beingness. The absolute infinite beingness. Now, in our symbol of life, you have those white semicircles. That's the mind manifested as super substance, as substance, and then as matter. We call them with the Aramaic names. That's the ayn, which is the light. Ayn-sof, light express, and ayn-sof-aur. Aur means the light. We are using the Aramaic words. Now, we cannot separate life from light. Somebody will say, what's love? But the expression of this light in comprehension and in understanding, in becoming one. Of course, this needs much attention, observation, in that state I call ecstasy and introspection. These are stages of the human consciousness. Now, we have said about the light, the archangels, the archangelic orders, how they express themselves passing through that prism, we call it the will pressure of the absolute beingness for manifestation. But, there are some other, we'll call them even beings, who do not want to pass through the El Shaddai or the Locos or through the Holy Spirit. And immediately, they cover themselves with their egoistic self-adoration, which creates in them darkness. These are the fallen ones. These are those who are responsible for the world of separateness. And they can only affect all those beings, I mean the human beings, who are in the world of separateness. They have been allowed by the El Shaddai or the Locos to be in the etheric counterpart of the planet, not on the material planet, because the material planet has been created and is sustained by the Holy Archangels of the elements. Which means they don't have the authority of materializing a self. No demon, no evil one can materialize. Can the Archangels materialize themselves on the cross of the material planet? If they want to, they can. And they do. Many times, Michael and Gabriel and Raphael and others have materialized themselves, even using the human form. It is their world of creation. But no evil one can materialize on the material plane. So, don't be afraid. Nobody will see materialized a demon. Now, we said that these demons, not passing through the El Shaddai or through the Holy Spirit, they have been tolerated by the Holy Archangels. But they have been rejected by the Holy Spirit. That's why they cannot materialize a form. And they have been deprived of the power of creating. Wrapping themselves in their egoistic tendency of believing that they are superior than Eloha or the Absolute Infinite Beingness. Does this feeling wrap them with veils of darkness? So, darkness does not exist except in the evil spirit. In themselves. And then, as we have the seven brilliances and colors of the mind of the Holy Archangels, we have now the seven frequencies of darkness. The seven intensities. How we call it? We have seven modes of darkness. So, all the so-called demons are not all so evil as the archdemons. Now, the archdemons who are covered with the seven layers of this darkness themselves are caught by the vibrations of their dark expression. These are the worst archdemons. Is it one? As you have billions of Archangels of the same order, you have thousands of human beings, I am telling you that there are thousands of Ash-Amote demons. But again, as the Archangels, one is all. And all are in the One. In the One, in nature. In expression, in evil tendencies. Now, can these demons, I have not mentioned the name of other demons, they are known by their vibrations, can they have entrance in the psychical world? No, never. That psychical world, all the 49 sub-planes, the seven planes of the psychical world are created by the Holy Archangels of the elements sustained by them in the same way they do it on the material plane. So, I tell you, on the cross-material plane, they don't have any entrance. You can never see materialized demons. But you have them moving about in the ethereal plane of our planet. As I said, the Holy Archangels tolerated them to be there. So, no entrance in the so-called psychical plane. The neurotic plane? No. The neurotic plane, again 49 sub-planes and seven planes, appreciates light. I am speaking of experience. No demon can enter there. But there is an unfortunate part. They can influence the individual minds of human beings. And can influence also with their shadow the human hearts. They have been allowed by the Archangels to do that. Though the Holy Archangels, Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel and the others are working in the material bodies of human beings, creating it, keeping it in good health, in good order. They have allowed these demons to influence the individual mind of the personality and its heart. In what way? When a human being co-vibrates to the same rate of their vibrations of darkness. In which way? In creating elementals. Being under his desires, his emotions. In the wrong way. The human being now is creating what we call elementals. I don't like to call them evil elementals. Let us call them bad elementals. Because if we call evil elementals created by human beings, then we must accept that a human being is a demon. And a human being is never a demon. He is an offspring of God. That's why I don't want to use the word evil. Bad elementals. So, creating the bad elementals a human being to serve his purpose in individuality in the world of existence is in attunement sometimes with the demons. So, when a man is called demon possessed, it's a wrong expression. No demon can enter a human body or a human being. But what we call demons in this point of view are the elementals. The bad elementals created by human beings just spoiling their mind substance being under the vibrations and the influence of these demons. The tempters. What we call temptation. And, of course, we find this lamentable state in the human beings while living in their material body. We find all these instances while a human being is living in his material body. They said, unfortunately, when a human being leaves his material body he's carrying with his personality his evil elementals, bad elementals, with him. So a human being is building up every moment every hour on the material plane elementals, good or bad composing that part of his personality we call the subconsciousness. So, our subconsciousness is the sum total of the personality. It is the sum total of these elementals. Good or bad. There is a fight between them. Who allows that fight? The man himself. His nature from his tendencies. His nature is good. His tendencies as a personality are not so good. So there is a fight in the personality of a human being. A fight between what we say good and evil. So, studying the nature of these elementals composing our subconsciousness this is the duty of every seeker of the truth to be on the alert. Can a man, after gaining his so-called self-consciousness create evil elementals? No, never. But when I say self-consciousness, I mean the self-realization of being the spirit, soul, ego. I don't mean that little self of the present-day personality of a man. I said before that I have double nature of a human being. The human and the divine. One, yet manifested in two ways. So, one of the most serious tasks of a seeker of the truth is just to concentrate start using in the right way the mind in building up elementals and studying the elementals he had already created. What is the nature of these elementals? Even Joshua Manuel Christ had described them in the Gospels. Using the language of that time he was using the word evil. And even the word evil spirits they didn't have any other words to use. It says that when an evil spirit leaves a human being is projected by a human being that means when a human being by his desires, emotions and the way of life is creating an elemental is passing out. From where? From his personal self now and of course from his material body. From the place just at the root of the nose between the eyes. A clairvoyant can see it. Good or evil elemental he can see it. Not bigger than the head of a pin. But it's not a matter of size it's a matter of quality. Because a seed of an eucalyptus tree is not bigger than the head of a pin yet you need it's only possibility of the creation of that kind of life. Likewise. And when it gets out it gets natural sizes. It goes around. They say in waterless space it means part of the ethereal world around. But it has to come back. It returns back home. Blessings and curses come home to us says an English proverb it's very true in it. Coming back it carries with it says Joshua seven such evil spirits worse than itself. Seven. How is that? That one becomes seven. Coming it enters through the seven centers. Contaminating all the centers. So becoming seven. Entering in the etheric double of a human being. So the seekers of the truth are seeking and finding the seed of their subconsciousness in the etheric double of their material body. So the etheric double of our material body is twofold. Our own connecting us with our psychical body and ethical body contaminated a very bad smelling dirty muddy place and that part of our subconsciousness in our etheric double which is the divine power the etheric vitality pure good to be used by the holy archangels in building up the body in sustaining the body. It's much much work done on the etheric double of our material body. Now, from where do people, individuals get that vitality that kind of mind, substance with which they will create those bad elementals? Of course from the storehouse of the etheric vitality the Shekinah is giving us every day. So we should be very careful in how we are using that etheric vitality granted to us every day by the Father to His offspring the human beings our daily bread which is the etheric vitality. So the seeker of the truth, man or a woman first of all must know realize the existence of the etheric double as the mould in which and by which through the holy archangels the material body is built, sustained and is living and also look in it these two sides of existence the existence of the personal self and the beingness of the divine self with soul, spirit all believe that they have a soul Do you have a soul? Do you believe you have a soul? Of course, I have put that question to certain theologians in London I said, no, you don't have any soul They are wondering how you are a doctor of divinity and you deny having a soul I said, definitely I deny having a soul I said, I am the soul and I have a body You put it in the wrong way Try to realize that you are the soul and not you have a soul Who has a soul? You are petty sinful personality That is the wrong way of expression We are the soul We are the parts of life not our bodies Our heart is just an organ The parts of life the parts in the heart is not the heart because it might stop working It is there, perfect in quality We are the life not the way we are living each one of us as a personality man or a woman I said yesterday, what we have in common is our divine nature being their life, being the self we are living How we are living now? We are all living in the same way breathing, receiving the etheric vitality and living by the mercy of God But how are we living? You never find two people living the same way And what is the way of living now? We don't see what is life ourself That we know, it is under the domain of the Holy Spirit and of the locus, the satain But the way we are living is under our own orders not attuned to our inner divine nature What is now the way we are living? I said yesterday, never you will find two persons male or female, being the same in character, in the way of behaving in the way of feeling in the way of living Why they are not the same? Because we said that the present day personality of a human being is the sum total of the elementals good or bad composing that personality They said definitely that personality of us is not ourself as it is expressed as the way of living but it is ourselves living, giving the life to it So we must start now starting our two natures the human being under the influence influences or circumstances of the temptations of this life let us put it in this way the impressions which create in us after conceiving and seeing things in us, those vibrations we call desires, emotions feelings Are the feelings and the desires and the emotions of all people the same? No, they are according to the sum total of the elementals in them good or evil So by concentrating and studying the nature of our desires and of our emotions we can know the nature of our subconsciousness we can study what we call our present day personality Who is doing that? The personal self? Or the ego-spirit-soul-self? But we said that the self is one So when we start concentrating using now the mind in the proper way not enslaving the mind to contaminate it and make it desires, unbridled desires and emotions then we find Thank you Daskalos-Mar-2-1993-B-Same-as-the-Source Now, who is now studying these circumstances, deciding to use the mind now and study the nature of himself, the spirit, soul, self, the ego, the mortal God in us? Or the creation, the present-day personality of a man or a woman? Then we have to study this double expression of ourselves, our real nature and the way we express ourselves in the world of existence. Can we do that? And how is it that we can do that? Now, we as human beings are creatures, just living beings as all other living things all around us. We have been created as human beings, not as spirit, soul, ego. Soul, ego, we are in all eternity life, have never been born and will never cease to exist and be. But as human beings now, for how many years a human being can live on the planet? Saint Paul said, every day I'm dying. Yes, of course, every day you are changing. They said in a lesson, all of you before 20 years, what had you been, little children playing just on the floor? What are you now? What is that, boy or girl, child? You are grown up now, not even. A molecule of your material body is not the body of that girl or boy. But you are you, as an existing being, not as a body. That's why Saint Paul said, every day I'm dying and regenerated. Who is regenerating? The body. We have just what Christ says, it is the spirit which is the life-giving principle. The flesh profits nothing. Great truth. So, now, you who are deciding to study this matter, by using now the mind, because the seeker of the truth now knows what is the mind. Common people do not know what is the mind. They consider it is simply the thought. They don't know anything about the mind as super substance, substance, ethereal, psychical matter, and even matter. We know. Because we are using it in the right way. Now, who is using now the mind, in knowing what is what? The present day personality self, or the real self, in it, the soul of it. Both in one. Because, in reality, it's one. How did the absolute infinite beingness, with the holy archangels, created the human being? It is in the Bible. It says, God, the absolute infinite beingness, said, I say, vibrated, because he didn't use any language. Yes, sounds, yes, of course, because those vibrations are sounds. To whom? Definitive to the holy archangels, after being classified in their order. Which means vibrating, they co-vibrate. To what? To the divine plan. To the pleasure of the infinite beingness. Saying, let us create, create, man, the human being. How? According to our image and according to our likeness. Not to be different from us. To be God. A God. So even the human being, as he is now, a sinful self, is God. And when Joshua Emanuel was addressing people, he was addressing the personalities of those people. Saying, I say to you that all of you are gods and offsprings of the Almighty. Who now decides to start finding out the nature of our real self, the soul, spirit self, is in the personality? What is the difference now? That some total of the elementals, good or bad, composing the present personality, the quality of it, we will start to study. We call human egoism. Common people do not know that it is something very different from their own real self. They don't know it. They are expressing this personal egoism in their desires, in their emotions, in the way of living, in the way of behaving, the way of reacting to the circumstances of the environment. But if I tell them, they will care. You are not you now. You are life. You are God. They will look at you. Especially being under the influence of great anger against someone, against somebody, against certain circumstances. Who is behaving like that? You or the personal egoism claiming that it's you, while it isn't you. So you have, by introspection, find your real self and separate it from the personality's egoism, masquerading that it's you. How? We gave certain just practices for it, exercises for it. I give it now. By introspection, in the evening, using your divine nature of reproduction, visualization, which you never studied, yet you have it and you use it subconsciously. You can bring in your mind a scene and something which has happened before some hours. You can bring in your mind and see the place, the people, the person, the whole event which took place there. Meeting a fellow. He started insulting you, shouting. All the time for the one or the other reason. Doesn't matter. Then what happens? Without thinking, you start just doing the same thing. This is the personal egoism. Masquerading as yourself. There is a quarrel. Just hard words. Let us remain to the words only. Not to worse things. Joshua Manuel de Christ knew the circumstances. He said, one will strike with one cheek, turn to the other. But this is not wise. Who says that? The egoism says that. This is not wise. They say it is wise. You realize that the other one being under that feet of anger is a god like yourself. Being influenced by circumstances and by the evil one, loving that one as part of yourself, you remain calm. And not just start fighting. Why did Joshua Manuel de Christ said that at that time? Because usually at that time, Israelites were carrying with them a dagger or a knife or something claiming to be protection. Now let us see an imagined thing. Somebody coming. You are there. You start with one reason or the other slapping you and doing that. You turn to the other. You continue slapping. How long? Look at him with kindness. You are looking. Why he is doing that? He has to calm down. He will shout and shout and shouting. Usually people are saying the reason. Then understand if you have done something wrong, you said something wrong, apologize. And make that brother of yours your friend instead of an enemy. Now suppose he is slapping you shouting, quarreling. You do the same thing. Slapping each other. Kicking. Doing all that. He throws the dagger. You do the same. What is the result? At that time you are not thinking. Painful wounds. Bloodshed. And the result maybe the grave or the prison. What was preferable? Well, maybe turn the other cheek or let things take that course. So, now examining any event which had happened in the house, in the office, in the market, in the club, anywhere you are. Things do happen. People are fighting. So, bring it to your mind in the evening. In introspection. In this introspection I give much importance just meditating and making meditations as Eastern books are proposing. It's going round and round and going nowhere. We want to have experiences and decisions. This is the real meditation, the introspection. Then, you must bring in your mind clearly. Very easy thing to do. It is our nature doing it even subconsciously, not consciously. See people, the landscape and everything. The hard words which you have said. You said to yourself, now I am not that fellow before some hours. Now I am studying. I am seeing things and I can reason now. Why did I say those hard words? I said some hard words. Why did I say these hard words? This is the right time. Egoism will present itself and then you will realize that it's not you. Yes, of course, you said that. You had to say that. He said so many bad words. There you are. You are not me. You are misguiding me before some hours thinking that I was you. Now I am thinking more seriously. Now I know I am not you. There are many, many ways just to catch that monster called personal egoism who for me is a devil. It's just your own creation, the demon in you, the sum total of the bad element that you have created. You have to catch him. I know you. You are not me. Believe me. That devil which many, many times will present itself as an angel of light as Joshua said but for how long can he pretend I know now what's the reality. I know first of all that I am not you. I am now a resigning self and not a petty little self under the influences of circumstances and of certain passions, emotions, desires. Now I'll say something else. You know what is the worst? Elemental in you because of much, much mischief to you. What is it? That feeling of being wounded or being offended. Just think of it. That feeling of being wounded or being offended by someone is the most dangerous elemental, bad elemental in you. Nobody can offend another fellow just by his behavior in reality. One is showing himself not touching you. Why you should just have that feeling that another fellow can offend you. Yes, but of course he's saying some hard words other people are hearing it and yes, you are recording and you say I have been offended but you say no. What he is doing he is just showing his character. He or she are showing I have been them. Why should I feel offended? So we should start thinking now in the right way. Using the mind the heavenly bread in the right way. Which is the right way? Using it as a mirror to see in it our real self. Is there no other way now to see our real self except through the mirror we call the mind No. You have to pass through the mind using it as those forms of consciousness. Feeling it as subconsciousness. Starting at waking consciousness. Seeing it as your self-consciousness. Now this is the time you see differently. Then by developing what I call expressing yourself now as the spirit soul you don't need that mirror called the mind to know yourself how that time you'll feel. No words can say I know but you cannot know unless you reach that stage of self-superconsciousness. Is there no egoism then in you? No. Definitely no. You are taken now by the self-dignity of knowing who you are. And the self-dignity of knowing who every other human being your brother or your sister is. Then you will understand why Joshua Manuel de Christ said if an angry fellow under just influence of his egos would slap you. Tell the other chick. What is reason? And suppose a fellow is striking someone whom he's striking not himself also because it's not very difficult to understand it now. But doing something wrong to somebody else you are doing wrong to your own self. Happily not to your spirit soul self even to your present day personal self. I had an experience one day last year or before last year I don't remember well. They brought me a fellow on the wheelchair. He couldn't move even his hands or his feet. He was about 17 years of age. His father and mother took him to Sai Baba. And Sai Baba sent them away go to Cipriani. Maybe he will carry. They came disappointed against Sai Baba. Well, Sai Baba thought that was the best thing to do. They came to me. They brought that fellow on the wheelchair. It was a very lamentable condition. He was a German. The parent told me that his name was Johannes. Tell him Johannes. When he was there near me I knew everything concerning his life through the mental mind reading. Who was that fellow? During the time of Hitler he was one of the party killing, and torturing the Jews. Of course, when he found out that that was wrong what happened? They gave him a pistol to commit suicide. He didn't do it and they shot him. Passed him the other side. He was born again in this most lamentable condition. They brought him. Of course, I knew his name from his mind. I told him, Is it anything you remember, Fritz? The father told me, Sir, his name is not Fritz. His name, he said, is Johannes. The boy turned to me, turned to me, so I said, No, father. My name was also Fritz. He said, Just a few words with much meaning in it. Sir, ask God to relieve me of this situation and forgive me. I didn't know the time I was crushing the bones of the Jews that I was crushing my own bones. He said, A great truth. I didn't know the time I was crushing the bones of the Jews I was crushing my own bones. And then you can hear Joshua saying, Whatever a man sows, so he shall reap. This is the law that we have all to accept. Yes. The one is all. We are parts of the same common locus selfhood. This is what we must understand. And Joshua Emmanuel the Christ said, All around you are your brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers. He said, He who believes in me, I'll give him many brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers. Who didn't understand that time what he was saying? He was saying a great truth. He said that at that time. Brothers, sisters, fathers and mothers. I say, Myself. He said that also only to his disciples in the parables he was giving. So, understand that whatever a man is doing, is sowing, he shall reap. You cannot give even a glass of water which will not be given back to you. And if you give a slap, you will get it back sooner or later. This is the law in the material plane. So we have to be careful. In shaping our own life. Our life living is divine and common to all. We are living. We should thank God for living as human beings on the material earth. But our way of living is giving us responsibilities. So we have just to study the way we are living and attuning ourselves, the petty little personal self, to our real inner self in introspection. Try to make corrections. What do I mean corrections? Pulling down those bricks of our hell shell which we will carry with us. Why not pull it down from now? Let me tell you. No one, first of all, there is not such thing as death and annihilation of the personality. Be sure about that. But no one, no human being, in living the material body, with the death of the material body, will find himself or herself in any hell or in any paradise. He or she is not already now. So start it from now. Build from now, if you like, your so-called shell paradise. And pull down those bricks, elementals, dis-energizing the elementals, composing your shell hell. Because I'm telling you, hells and paradises do exist. Exist in the psychical and in the noetical planes. These are not realities. Because as the material world and our life in the material world and the psychical and the noetical world is a life of conceptions you have to study so that we get out of these conceptions is that we go and enter to the reality of our inner self. Joshua Emmanuel Christ gave a parable that a man was collecting precious things, precious stones when he found the most precious pearl and he bought it. He said, this is mine now. I'm not in need of collecting any other precious things. This is enough for me. What is the precious pearl? According to Joshua Emmanuel Christ. Finding the real self. Reaching to what I say self-realization. This is the precious pearl. Where shall we find it? Where is it? In the kingdom of the heavens which is in you, in your own nature. What it means? It is self-sincerity from the petty little self we call now self of our personality to enter in the kingdom of the heavens which is in our own nature because we are all God's offsprings of the same Aloha Father. What is the program? You'll teach again on Thursday. Tomorrow is a Now let us make a meditation. Just relax completely. Start from the toes of the feet, the abdomen, the chest. Start breathing deeply and comfortably. What are you breathing now? Only air. air. Or also I need the etheric vitality. The life-giving principle for your material body. Breathe and feel the breath. Let us call it air. Feel the air filling your lungs. I'm telling you it's not only air. Air comes in and air comes out. Air gets in and air comes out. But it's something else in the air. This is what I'll call etheric vitality. Which is holy archangels in your body. In the body of every human being, man or a woman. A Michael, a Gavriel, a Raphael, an Uriel, Cherubs, Seraphs, and other archangels. These moments are working. They are loving you. They continue to work and keep your material body, the psychical and the ethical body in good health. Help them do that. Don't destroy their work with a stupid way of living, hating, getting angry, and burning all this etheric vitality. The super substance. Realize this etheric vitality mind given to you as a human being by the divine father. As etheric vitality to live in your body and also as the mind for you to use it in thinking and existing. You must study the natures of the mind super substance, the mind substance, the mind psychical substance, and study also the mind matter entrusted to you, given to you. Breathe deeply and try to feel the parts of your heart. You are not making the heart beat. Who is doing it? Listen to it. Joshua and Mary the Christ was saying to his disciples, hear me in the parts of your heart. I am talking to you. I am your God. You are Lord in you. Love yourself being self which is me, the God in you. Try to understand what is really life. Just listen to the parts of your heart now. Every parts of your heart is a word of love from the locals and from God. Respond to it. Say yes. Thank you. I am living as a human being. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. But you have to ask for it. Ask and it will be given to you. Knock and it will be open to you. Search and you shall find. Start searching, feeling the parts of your heart to hear his divine voice of love, loving you. But the heart of every other human being is beating and every other human being is a beloved offspring of God like you. And you can never be an enemy to any other human being without being enemy to God in you. This was the teaching and the preaching of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. For this purpose he came down to the world. Just feel the parts of your heart and say I am not doing that. You are doing it for me. And the holy archangels my brethren in my body are working for me. And I am living in this material body and the other bodies by grace and not by right. I will live by right when I will make the self realization to know that I am they. Make your material body the temple of God. And make the heart in your material body its altar to worship him. Worship him in you in your own being and worship him in every other human being without distinction. All human beings are brothers and sisters. When Joshua was born the holy archangels approaching the earth were singing glory to God in the highest. And on earth peace. Good will towards all human beings. Enough. Now there is a class of people all around the planet. Certain hour every day just for some minutes five ten fifteen no need for more. At least once every day. You just stop every work everything calm completely down all their emotions and their thoughts and send out a very powerful elemental peace on earth. Love towards all human beings. It is not necessary to coincide the hour usually in Cyprus we make it at nine o'clock or if we are engaged in that time in any other time. So every hour human beings all around the planet are sending out this elemental of peace. Do it. Believe me the human beings need it very very badly because you will see now on the planet there is not any place on the planet there is not bloodshed. Unfortunately the such demon called Amote is doing his work in contaminating the minds of human beings and their hearts. So get some time and at least for five minutes every day send out thoughts of love towards all with the great wish that peace may rule over the planet. Daskalos-Mar-17-1992-A-Watch-and-Pray Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting thyself in yourself as your total wisdom, and as your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, and towards all other human beings. Amen. This lesson today is most important. Everybody must do his best to understand because this is our life on the planet. This was the life of all human beings at all times on the planet. And this will be also the life of all human beings in future on the planet. Which is, once a human being finds himself or herself on this planet, is born as a human being, in starting its circle of possibilities to express it, the first thing to do is to develop what we say a personality. This personality is a kind of self, shadow of the proper and real self, of our spirit, soul, ego, but still a self. But how that kind of self, I mean the personality, will be formed? This is the lesson today. We said in previous lesson that what is, eternally, is the everlasting life, and in the human being is its spirit, soul, ego. Our real nature, our real self, our selfhood, our I-ness is eternal. It's eternal life. God. But, now microcosmically again, in the creation of a human being, because a human being is a creation, it's something to exist in the world of existence, in what we say time and place, space. So that creation, the human being, definitely must develop a shadow of its real self, a shadow of the selfhood, that means the self of the present day personality. But how this self will be composed? How this personality of a man is to be built? Now, the material body, we said in a lesson that all the material bodies of human beings, male or female, are the same. Not, I mean, in the kilos, but they are the same. But the personalities of two people are never the same. Of course, the material body is built up by the holy archangels of the elements of that kind of mind we call solid mind or matter. It is well, very well under the control of these archangels, our brothers, the lords of the elements. We study that also to know things. But now, what concerns our present day personality? From what material or stuff this present day personality is built up? This is what we shall see today. Now, we said again in previous lessons that what is this everlasting life? God, the absolute infinite beingness in its self-sufficiency. Yet we see in the absolute infinite beingness the will pleasure of expressing itself in itself. And we said in the lessons that in the absolute infinite beingness there are billions and billions beyond number beings, which are the archangels or the archangelic orders. And, of course, these archangels, the archangelic orders, are similar to the absolute infinite beingness in the self-sufficiency and in dealing with their own nature, which is the total wisdom, total wisdom, the characteristics of the absolute infinite beingness. But now they have to express themselves expressing the will pleasure of the infinite beingness and, of course, their own will pleasure of expressing themselves in groups as the Logos and individually now to work on their own nature of building up, getting their place in what we call Lords of the Elements. So, to do that, we said, they have to use the mind, because from the very first moment of the expression, that very first moment was always and will be always, expresses the will pleasure of expressing himself, manifesting himself in himself, the absolute infinite beingness and the beings, from them emanates the mind. Now, what is this mind in its purity? It's not easy to understand, but we can trace it after we see it vibrating in lower frequencies of vibration. And we see this mind now, from which mind all the universes are built up, are made, by the Holy Archangels. So, we have the Kreatos and the Creation. We have these two things. So, the Holy Archangels expressing their will pleasure in creating, using now the mind, are creating, using again the total wisdom, but now in creating, they will express their all-mightiness, which means nothing can escape from their attention and their control. So, we can trace the all-mightiness in the time of the expression of the creationism of these beings. So, using the mind in all the states and modes of its beingness and existence, they are building the universes. How many? Many. But we can know only the seven heavens as human intelligence. We cannot go further than the seven heavens or the seven dimensions. And there are many, many more. Maybe the Archangels understand things in a different way. In a better way, I might say. You say, why in a better way? We are Archangels, we are also spirit, soul, ego beings as they are. Why better? Because we have entered in the world of separateness. Why? They haven't. They are at the same of expressing their creationism in oneness with the Absolute Definite Beingness. This is the difference that maybe they can see things, understand things better than the human being. The world of separateness is drawing our attention. And I tell you, as human beings are living now on the planet, in all places of the world, civilized or not, are attracted in the world of separateness by what I call the outside world, integration. And only on the material plane, because people know very little about what I say, the ethereal world, the psychical world, and the ethical world for the time being. I mean the common people. So, even so, their attention is in the world of separateness. This is making the human beings not understand clearly the reality, the truth. But in developing their self-consciousness, and self-consciousness, now I mean the self of the present personality after assimilating itself with the higher self and reaching the highest states of the self-super-consciousness, of course they are equal to the Archangels. They are not in any other difference. But what about the common people now around us? They are too much attracted through the five senses and mainly the sight, by things and conditions of the outside world, the material, the cross-material plane. Why? They have to learn a certain lesson to become masters of matter, which they haven't learned yet. So, we know that the mind can be traced as a formless super-substance. It can be traced and be used now, even as a formless super-substance by the holy Archangels in their creationism and by us sometimes, the human beings. It can be traced and be used as substance, as what I would say, our emotional nature can be used, traced and be used also, as energy, vitality, the energy carrying the sense of life, which is the ethereal world, it's our etheric double, and can be seen and studied as matter. It is the cross-material world all around us and our cross-material body. And I say and repeat, everything is matter-mind, what we can see and trace, and everything invisible now, in the other worlds, is again mind, in different rates of frequencies or vibrations. So, we can trace and know the work of the Archangels in the universes, in all the worlds of the various dimensions. The material world is the world of the three dimensions. The psychical world, worlds rather, are worlds of the four dimensions. The noetical world and the worlds are worlds of the five dimensions. The noetic world is the world of the six dimensions. And you have another one, which is not for the common people. It is for the enlightened ones, to enter, know, live, enjoy the splendor of this heaven or this world, yet coming back cannot bring to you anything of that splendor. There are no words to give any description. So, this is the mind. In all its modes of beingness and of existence. So, we can know the work of the Archangels. We can come in contact with the Lords of the elements, the various Archangelic Orders. But what really concerns us is to study, understand, and know our real nature as human beings. What are we as human beings? You have a material body. Good. That we know. We touch it. We move it about here or there, and we move our hands, and with our hands and other members of the body, we can get and acquire certain skills. Marvelous work to be done. To work in a marvelous way. Good. But that's not all. This is work in time and place. I mean, in the outside world, the physical, material world, or the skills. This is concerning, of course, gaining knowledge and skill, how to use our material bodies. What about our personality? Our personality is not our material body. No! It is any material body, but in reality, our personality is something very, very different. Because, as I said before, the bodies of all human beings, male or female, are similar. Bones, flesh, blood, the various organs, and so on. And studying the body of a man or a woman, you know what is and how is the body of any man or any woman. But I repeat now, you cannot know the personality of two persons because they are never the same. So now the duty is to start learning the personality. Our petty little self, the shadow of our self, we call it our personality. Now, analyzing the personality, in a man or a woman, we find that personality composed of the material body. It is part of the personality, yet it is not the personality. A name, the form, of course, is of the material body. Now you say, the personality of a man has no form. Of course, the personality has a form. The form of the psychical body and the form of the nautical body. Definitely it has a form. And the characteristics now are making the difference. Now, we have to study our personality. To put it plain, our personality is the sum total of our emotional thought forms and our pure thought forms, which means the elementals. What are the elementals now? Now, this is the point you have just to think over it and understand it. We said, we are living, everything is living and existing, all the worlds and all the universes in the mind. Now, from the mind, everything, all the universes, everything existing in the universes is made of. That's clear. Made of by whom? In the universes. And even the material world and all the other universes are built up by the elementals of the archangels. The thought forms of the archangels. So, the archangels, using the mind now as thought, have composed, built up the universes and they are keeping the universes in good order in the sense of time and creating what we call space. A kind of space-place. Various places. So, that's clear. But, this is what you will understand. The holy archangels are building everything in the eternal now. So, in building the universes, there is not past, present and future because in them are all the circles of possibilities. At the same time, this is the work of the archangels and being in touch with the archangels, one can be taught of this wise way of working. Now, so we have the work of the archangels in what I call the eternal now, having in them the whole plan, the whole circle of the possibilities. And yet at the same time, working on the circle of possibilities at any point of the circle, which means the archangels of trees, with the angels of trees, are working on the circle of possibilities, creating thousands and billions of forms in any state of the circle of possibilities. They sit, they're growing, they're coming up, growing, growing, growing, completing the circle of possibilities and dying. But you can find these in the trees in any state of their existence. So, this means that the holy archangels in the creationism are holding this complete circle of possibilities and are working on all the points of all existences on this circle of possibilities. For one form of expression, billions and billions and billions, starting from Myanmar to the animal kingdom, the vegetable kingdom, everything. Can you understand now what is the total wisdom of the all-mightiness and the total wisdom, the nature of the holy archangels as archangelic beings? You can be taught of that by them when you come in contact with them. And what we are taught? They will teach you the materialization and the dematerialization. And they will teach many, many, many things which are beyond now any bold imagination. Of course, I am not allowed to speak more on that. Now, coming to the human being. I said the human being, being, even in the lowest scale of its existence, is God. And has in him or in her all the possibilities of the holy archangels. But now, this has been developed through what now? The personality they are going to compose and make changes every time. So, every human being should study the circle of the human possibilities. Study the circles. Circles now, not a circle, of human probabilities. Find his or her place in that circle of probabilities. And using now the mind in the right way, develop in it, in it, the present day personality, selfhood. All the possibilities to reach someday to what I call real self-realization. Understanding who or what he or she is in reality. And we said that is by using the mind. How? This is the how. Already every human being is using, I said yesterday, subconsciously the mind. In creating elementals. And any personality of a man is composed of the sum total of these elementals, which that personality creates or is revitalizing from the group of the elementals that are existing and created by our ancestors. So, we are now in an ocean, just a little, little fish, all of us, swimming in that ocean, which is the mind. But that we say, the mind in all its states of existence and of everything already created in it. Shall I call it the cosmic subconsciousness? Yes, there is another word. In it are all the group elementals of everything which human beings from the time of their appearance on the planet have started creating from the living mind. Mind is living and nothing is destroyed, created in the mind, from the mind. So, don't think that anybody can destroy or kill any of the elementals he had brought in life, because they are living. They are composed of the mind and the mind is living as we are living. So, now we see the life of our material bodies supervised and kept in good order by the holy archangels. And in the material bodies we make some exercises. We live independently our own life as personalities. We study the composition, material composition of the material body. But now we have to study the composition of our present day personality. Is our present personality our self, our real self? It is and it isn't. The heart of it is our real personality. But all the rest, the body of the present day personality is not. What is in the present day personality of Yannis or Mary, the real spirit, soul selfhood is the parts of life. They are living. The parts of life is the real self. The way a personality is living is so different to all the people and which depends upon the total of the elementals composing personality. It is in our real self and we can by introspection find it out and be sure about it. Because we now can make changes in our present day personality. So, the task of every human being, not the seekers of the truth, of every human being at all times it is to study the nature now of his or her own present day personality. Analyze it, know it, that means studying the elementals composing it. Now elementals, anything which had drawn our attention without even thinking about it yet, creates an elemental. Everything which came to our attention and we started thinking of it gives life to the elemental. Everything that is vibrating in such a way to cause vibrations in our psychical body, the emotional body, is strengthening the elementals created. And we see now the elementals in various states of strength and power. That's clear. Now, we create elementals. An elemental has definitely a form because nothing can exist which doesn't have a form. This is clear. It gets a form. We give it a form when we do it consciously, but if we are doing it subconsciously, just a desire, an emotion, creates an elemental which gets a form according to its nature. Clairvoyance can see this element. Now, definitely an elemental has a form and certain energy or power in it. That power, usually in the elementals, which we call emotion, thought, form, depends upon the strength of the desire or of the emotion. So now we shall see the energy and the force and the power of the elementals. So, an elemental is created by a desire. What is a desire now? Which is the main cause of the birth of all elementals, of emotional thought elementals? The present-day personality of a man, starting with the composition of elementals, has in the elementals the law of attraction as knowing and having. See that? Knowing and having. So, you see something. The already elemental created persuades you subconsciously to know more about it, so that it will gain strength and energy in it. And then, to get real existence through you, it excites in your psychical body the desire of having it. This is the greatest devil, the feeling of possessiveness. Possessiveness is not having, but enslaving yourself to a certain thing, calling it yours, holding it, and not allowing anybody else even to see it, or have it, or use it. Now I am speaking about general laws concerning the elementals. So, an elemental has never greater intelligence than the fellow who is giving it life. But, now, it is very cunning in trying to prolong its life, which is maybe greater, much greater, than the way the person who had created it has that kind of being cunning, because of the necessity of the elemental to prolong its life, get more power, get more energy. Where is this elemental living? We said our present personality is the sum total of these elementals. It is the body of the elementals, is the personality. Yet, as we said, they live at the same time in the cosmic subconsciousness. I am not allowed to speak much about the cosmic subconsciousness. About the cosmic consciousness, yes, we will speak more. Now, an elemental is created. It has as its life its characteristic. Now, an elemental will never be dis-energized before it fulfills its purpose. And when the purpose is accomplished, is that the word? Then it dis-energizes itself and it enters into the cosmic consciousness until somebody else will pick it up. What man could dream more than flying and leaving the planet and reaching the moon. Man succeeded it. Why? That elemental of the first ambitious dreamers created that elemental. And that's the accomplishment of that desire. So, never an elemental will dis-energize itself in the cosmic subconsciousness, enter in the cosmic consciousness before it accomplishes its purpose. And you should be very careful. Check your desires, because your desires now, you think they are most, most important for you to be accomplished. Tomorrow, I mean another incarnation, maybe the stumbling stones on your way will be working. I know it by personal experience. Think behind and see how I have created such stones in my way. So, have in mind that all your desires will be fulfilled. When? Now, how this when? Sometime in what you call the future. Because they are the rewards of existence. So, one should check his desires and his emotions. We said everything we think about it creates an elemental. Everything which excites in us emotions or the desire is creating elementals. Now, the quality of the elemental. It can be any kind of quality. You have bad elementals, very, very bad elementals, worse elementals, and all that. You have just good elementals, just slightly better elementals, and still better elementals, excellent elementals. So, the quality of the elementals depends upon what? The already existing elementals in the human beings forming what you call his or her character. Because there is a constant fighting between the elementals in the personality of a man of what is good or bad. I don't want to use the word evil. So, there is a constant clash and war between them in you. Sometimes this clash and this war is bringing many people, if these elementals are the extremes in one side or the other side, making that personality unhappy. So, a present day person, never two persons are the same in the constitution of their personality and in the kind of life these elementals are living in that personality's aura. Because usually you can trace them in what I call the aura of the etheric double. So, now more on the elementals. An elemental is created. A man is born naked, small boy or girl, but it grows and grows and grows and grows and changes his appearance. And then it's dressing himself as a human being. It is the same with the elementals. They are created, good or bad, it depends. But then they have to dress themselves with what I will say certain colors to get their color. Because their color will show their nature and their ability and strength in expressing themselves in the petty self of the personality. So, all the elementals have an independent kind of willpower. Willpower of what? The willpower is divine state. Because they are created by the divine holy mind. And they are created by a soul personality now. So, now, what we are doing in introspection? What we are supposed to do in introspection? First thing is get inside the kingdom of the heaven which is within us. Kingdom of the heaven? It might be a hell. Never mind. It is the kingdom of the heaven. It is a state of beingness and existence. Now, how it is? It's up to us to clean it, to make the changes. So, entering subconsciously in our subconsciousness, now starting exercising our consciousness in observation, meditation, and understanding, we can make the changes and the corrections. Put it more plain. You feel you have an ardent desire for something. Just study it. Having it? Possessing it? Knowing it? Just to start to understand its nature. Usually, you will find the desire of having it. Because the elementals, when they offer you something to your personality, they have it. Because they have their own kind of, I won't call it, I don't like to call it evil consciousness. Let us call it attraction to their quality. So, you have their influence and work and yours. Usually, the personality of a man has in it also what you call good elementals, reasoning elementals. A man cannot be completely bad. They interfere. And so, they both, these elementals, bad or good, want to get the attention of their master, which means the ego of the personality. And they clash between them. There is a war between them. And of course, who is paying for that war? The elementals or the fellow who created them in him? Now, you can understand what are the mystics of consciousness. Sometimes, leading a man even to commit suicide. Now, in our self-superconsciousness now, our real self, we have the presence of the holy archangel. Because a holy archangel is our guardian angel, not only for our spirit and soul, because our spirit and soul is not in need of any archangel for them, except being ego-fied by love, not by need. But to supervise for the present the personality of a man. Because in it, we said, the pulse of life is our divine self, covered with a kind of a color, we call it ourselves, the present-day personality itself, the creation of time and place. So, when we start introspection, who is doing it? You as a present-day personality, or now you as the soul- ego? It depends. When it is you as your spirit-soul-ego, definitely you are going to win the battle. But if it is the present-day personality now starting reasoning, the fighting is terrible. And when the personality now realizing itself, its nature as life, was to change the circumstances, that's much more praiseworthy. Because in the assimilation of it within itself, then there is a great, great joy. To whom? To it, of course, definitely, because that is reaching the self-realization. But also to the holy archangels, composing the bodies, which that personality now tends to purify. And Joshua the Christ says, joy is to the archangels, the angels in heaven, to you are angels, for everyone returning back home. That means returning back to its divine nature. That's clear. Daskalos-Mar-17-1992-B-Watch-and-Pray Now, we are repeating it. Everything you see, even before thinking about it, or feeling anything, creates an elemental. That's clear. But when you see something, what is the reaction in your personality with the already existing innate elementals? Because don't think they are sleeping in your aura. They are most active. And being active, they make you, your present day personality, knowing things. So they give you a kind of knowledge. So seeing something, being aware of the presence of that something, immediately in your psychical body, starts the influence of it. They come forward without you knowing it. All kinds of elementals related to that thing through your attention. Then you'll have in yourself that greater impulse which creates the elementals. We call that desire of having. So this is something one should, through introspection, study. So this new elemental has many, many other elementals of each kind, or similar to each kind, ready to embrace it once it's created, coming in, that fellow, and give it part of their power and strength. You say, that is only for the bad elementals. No, it's for the good elementals also. When a fellow, a benevolent fellow, is under the influence of just charitable elementals in himself, this is just a case that somebody is helping and he can help more, he will come forward to help. So those elementals of charity or of goodness, a fellow seeing, are strengthening also those elementals in the personality of a fellow having in himself such elementals. And then you see that good is strengthening good. And evil strengthens evil. Sometimes yes, but sometimes no. Because evil fights evil. How? You see somebody having something. You want to have it. It's not easy to have it. You have that other desire. Then immediately you enslave the mind to find ways to serve that desire. There will appear many, many elementals in your subconsciousness ready to suggest what to do. Still, you have the opportunity. The other, oh, this has much money. Who will see? You kick him and get the money and you get what you like. It is something precious and a very big thing to have it. The other elemental will come forward and say, no, you can't work. With a second work, and you can get the money and buy it. So it means that already existing elementals in the personality, when an elemental is created, will come forward to give that suggestion and try to influence you as the present day personality. And you said our present day personality, our petty time and place self, is the sum total of these elementals. Good or bad. Again, I don't want to use the word evil. So in introspection, you have to concentrate and use that great, great art of observation. Be on the alert to understand things as they are. That means using the mind now in a higher rate of vibrations, which is observation. This word is not used by the Eastern people because most of them do not know it. Only Jesus Christ, the God-man, brought it to our knowledge. Observation. How? Be on the alert, watch and pray so that we'll not enter into temptation. Watch and pray. So we have just to note all these expressions. So, now what we should do? First of all, sitting quietly, peacefully, getting rid of, getting rid of certain elementals which like in yourself to misguide you, which are masochistic tendencies. Don't accuse yourself even as the present day personality. What you have to learn is think how they are and make connections. Have that in your mind. Because it is wasting of time accusing yourself. Oh, I'm a bad person. Why have I done that? I should have done that and that and that. No, that's not time. Shade what is evil. But they are not evil persons. They are misguided persons. So you will have that in your mind and for yourself. Don't start accusing your present day personality. Study and make corrections. This is what you really need. Now, study your present day personality. Sit quietly and study your nature, the lower nature. And you know that these things, the impulses, I don't know if it's another word using, which are not ourselves, we think they are and come to decisions. I'll never be in a hurry to obey elementals already existing in me, have been strengthened during the past, augmenting other elementals which are coming to me, drawing my attention and creating this or that desire. The first thing. Second, get the help of already existing reasonable elementals in yourself. They will come to help you. Because I'm telling you, the already existing elementals are quite awakened and ready to assist you and help you. Now, suppose that desire which I have now is created now and other elementals going to strengthen it, will be fulfilled. First of all, I'll see by which cost, what troubles I have to undergo in fulfilling that desire. That desire to be fulfilled, the fulfillment of that desire, worth your all that trouble. That means a reasoning. And what that fulfillment of that desire will offer me? Then, see back in time. Didn't I have just this desire about many, many, many things in the past? Now, have all those desires, certain desires, been fulfilled? Some of them or most of them, yes. Some of them, no. Now I'll try to detect their influence on themselves. If they had been fulfilled, what did they offer me? Now, they have lost completely their color. Now, I have fulfilled that desire. Another one comes forward and another one and another one. And in the course of time, we'll see that the color of the ardent desires is fading away. You said, but then it was so important to me. What is it now? So come to reason. Now, if I study now a desire which had not been fulfilled, what it created in your present personality now? As a reaction to it, then a devil appears, which is your egoist, which should not be followed and obeyed. It will increase, increase what we call obstinacy. Why? And believe me, there are some wives who are very dangerous devils in your personality. You have to punish them. Why? And if somebody has succeeded, then what happens? You feel jealous. Why? That fellow has it and I didn't succeed having it. And again, who were the cause that my desire had not been fulfilled? Maybe sometimes people who love you, then you start hating. This is the most dangerous point. Despising, avoiding, hating, and then it goes further. Even thinking to find ways to take revenge. These are devilish tendencies, which are creating you weaknesses. This is what I call weaknesses. Malice, enmity, jealousy, many other states are weaknesses. And these weaknesses, as I said yesterday, are very dangerous poisons for your material body. So immediately, you hard-pour these things in yourself, you are punishing yourself. So there is the self-punishment of egoism, because it is the egoism which comes forward to make all those suggestions to your present-day personality. Now you understand how valuable is what I call meditation, introspection, checking, and self-analysis. Self- analysis, I mean the present-day personality. So, one should boldly, in introspection, enter in his or her subconsciousness. You can do that every evening before going to bed or in bed. It is a good time. That doesn't mean that we shouldn't work on it in introspection at any other time. You have time to do it. So withdraw in a room alone. See that you'll not be disturbed. And the first thing you have to do is to slow down the way you are thinking. This is most precious. Slow down the way you are thinking. No need to rush, because you'll see that we rush too much in the way you are thinking, especially about things we want to have. So slow down the way you are thinking and start thinking slowly and in the right way. I am under the desire of this thing. Put it down in writing. End of this thing. End of this thing. Then take one by one in another meditation time. But have in your mind that there have been traced many, many, many, many things in you. Now I shall analyze them and see, are these desires worthy of engaging my attention and taking my time and drawing and drawing my energies? What they will give me? Just some hours satisfaction and many, many hours maybe of bitterness. You have to study all the circumstances and see, do I hate anybody? Do I have complaints against anybody? Why? Find the reason. Find the cause. So you start understanding the present situation you are living in. And what will be the gain? Making corrections, you avoid future troubles, unnecessary pain, agony. This is the one thing you are gaining. The second, you find who am I now? Slowly, slowly becoming the master of the situation and being able to control my emotions, control my thoughts. That means I am not the emotions and the thoughts. What am I then? The master of all that, master of the material body, master of my emotions and master of my thoughts. And I'm telling you another gain you have to gain. You start entering to certain necessity, desires, things giving pleasure instead of calling things desire. Creating now elementals, not so many. These elementals are most powerful now because you have them under your control. They have in these elementals more the thought than the emotion, the emotion being and the desire being under the control of reasoning and of thought. And of course what you desire, in this way let us call it desire even, is fulfilled immediately. So you know the way now. How? What you want to have, to have it sooner. Getting less elementals and more powerful elementals. Now, knowing now how elementals are created and how elementals are working for you, but sometimes for your distraction maybe. You can now clean that storehouse of your subconsciousness. You have all those elementals we call, but piled up. Then your life becomes more reasonable, giving you more satisfaction now. Because being a master you feel more satisfied than being a slave enjoying nothing. Now I'll give you an example that you must avoid after knowing this thing how to do it, to get rid of the influence of just accomplishing only desire without reasoning. I had a very poor friend sometime. Really I loved very much that fellow and he loved me very much. He was very, very, very clever, but very, very poor. Of course we were sitting on the same bench at school and there was a great love between us. When we finished the school, I went to another school, he took me to the separate gymnasium and then we finished school. He came out and told me, look here, I want you to ask your father to take me to your, to the office, because we're studying. I'm living with my mother. My mother was washing clothes so that to bring me up and live was very, very, very poor. And I said, all right. I brought him to that office. All the time others around us thought he was absent- minded. No, I knew what was happening in him. Almost concentrating in this why am I poor? Why am I studying? Why in this quarter there are very, very rich people? Why boys in my age had everything? He told me one day, can I attend your lessons? I said, why not? He came. That time I think I was 17 and he was 18. He attended a lesson on the elementals, which I gave in Greek. Then after finishing the lesson, he came and told me, thank you, I got the key. I said, what does he mean? I know how to get everything I want. I said, really? But are you sure what you think you want is what you should have? He said, definitely. I said, all right. Never mind. Well, after some days, he came and told me, look here. Of course, I can't say he was not thinking in a reasonable way. I cannot leave and pay rent just for a room. My mother now passed over and myself just being dirty like that. What do I want? I said, just a house with three little rooms and just to wash myself. What are you doing for that? Visualizing it. That here is the key. You are right. He got the lesson of visualization. That means creating elementals self- consciously. He came after some months and told me, look here, will you come to my house to have a coffee with me? To your house? I said, yes. All right. We went this Sunday to his house. He had exactly something he had created in his mind. How? He created his needs, going with his bicycle all around. He saw his house, similar to what he dreamt. After, he said, on sale. He went there, found the fellow. He got a second job and he could just get the house and pay monthly until that house would become his house. I said, yes, you are right. He left the office for a better work, better job. He engaged himself with many, many other works. Of course, I was meeting him from time to time when I could. He told me, will you come just to have lunch with me someday to my house? I said, yes, I know it. He said, no, that isn't that house. I sold that house. My house is maybe better than your house today. He said, what is it? Yes. Well, I went. He had a friend helping him also, sharing the house, paying service to him. Everything he had desired, he had them. He says, no, look here, I'm using my mind and I know how to get mine. But he said, look here, honestly. First of all, I said, yes, because did you start doing stupid things? No, with my work and my sweat, because I remember what you told me. I said, brother, what was the problem? What a man is gaining with the sweat, half of it is taken away by the devil. If somebody is getting things in not the proper ways, the devil takes everything away in himself also. And he had it in his mind and he said, I was afraid of what you said. That's very good. That was a good thing for him, to reason. Years have gone. He got married to a very beautiful, rich also lady. He made houses. He has built a very, very big construction of six stories, many, many flats. Now he's in Limassol. I met him. Very, very rich. Has two or three companies. I met him sometime before four years. He had shown me two of those, which were mine. I said, he said, why you are doing that? They will never be yours. You are under the false idea that they are yours. No, I'm good. There are some people who cannot pay and I keep them there without paying anything. But also that, yes, but don't call them yours because they will never be yours. What is it after all? Stones. He said, no, no, no, no, I'm rich. He had a very luxurious car. He made me around. I said, don't you think a cheaper car will do the same work? He said, don't you think I brought you here all the time just to tell you that I'm a fool? I didn't say that. But you are saying that in your way. If you think it is so, well, we went to his house and he made quarrel with his wife. Why she paid double the value for the shoes of his son? Why she could get it much cheaper? I thought, I'm not a fool. He said, what do you want me to do? What did you go with your wife or your children? I brought. Oh, much money I needed for that. What you are going to do with the money you have so much money? Do you know how much you have? Not exactly. Then go and enjoy life. He said, what? Enjoy life. Oh, I am too busy now. I don't have time just to enjoy life. What do you mean enjoy life? He said, you miserable fool. He said, no, in my mind I have something else. I want to become a partner in a ship. I started to become a partner in a ship. He said, you know how old you are? I said, no, stop it. Stop it? You are a year older than I am. At that time I was about 70. He said, don't remind me of that. How you carry all these with you when you pass away? He says, I didn't bring you here just to torture me. I said, why torture? When he steps, he's burying somebody, he's the most miserable. I told him, was it not better to continue with the lesson to improve yourself? Instead of getting that, I said, go and carry as you see. Then I gave him just something where he's going to put it. I said, you are a stupid. What do I want to say? Which is the greatest devil? Ungratefulness to God and dissatisfaction in life. One who should be satisfied with the little and the more and more and more. But one should be grateful to God for what God is giving and enjoy life. Enjoy life not in a stupid way. Feeling I am living. Feeling quiet. I have done my duty to life. I have created a family and I'm a good father, husband and citizen in this society. Little or more, it doesn't matter. You can help and feel satisfied that it is not the quantity, it is the heart disposition that counts. You must have in your mind. I have a friend the other day. He's a doctor. He was coming to our lessons and when I said that people should help by all their means, material, psychical, advices, knowledge and everything, he came to me and he says, yes, can I be a member of your system and also to other systems? I said, why not? He said, yes, but pay a pupil of the system now in Nicosia. I don't want to mention the name of that stupid thing. He says, they told us we cannot help and we should not engage ourselves with helping people unless you are strong enough and in a state to help. I said, did they tell you that? Yes. And how I shall help? I said, look here, is it necessary for you to become a banker just to create charity to certain people to eat because you should be in that position, become rich to help? He said, no. If you are a laborer only and you earn very little money and with the money you'll get a lot of bread and a little butter. And you cut a piece of bread thick and put butter and want to satisfy your hunger. You don't have anything more. Be thankful to that. He was with that bread looking at me. And you see a starving boy or a dog, starving dog there looking at you and said hungry. You cut half of it and give it to him and before eating see that that child is eating it and you feel the pleasure that maybe both of you will not satisfy completely. You are hungry and feel that joy instead. Just sharing that very little thing. One can be of help to anybody with the least things, not just expecting to get more and more and more and become a millionaire to help. So, what do I want to say? He was under a force elemental. And I said that everything, every thought, every emotion, everything is creating an elemental. And elementals can be good advisors or evil. We have to decide. We have to use the mind and reasoning. Yes. Now we'll make a meditation. Relax completely. Know now that you are a separate person from everyone else even in your family. You are father, you are mother, you are children. You feel you are completely a separate person from them and a completely separate person from everybody else around you. But you are a small part of the divine lokoic selfhood. The fullest and most complete expression of this selfhood was Joshua the Christ and he is now the lokoic selfhood. And all human beings using the mind and reasoning, we are in that lokoic selfhood. So feeling you are alone, this is an illusion. Very dangerous, sometimes to make you punish yourself feeling lonely. Nobody had ever been lonely or abandoned. Try to feel that you are you, but you are also one with everybody else by loving. Love is the divine flame uniting all souls. Why not? And all personalities. You are already a spirit, soul, ego, united, in what I call Christhood. Why not unite ourselves? Our personalities also in that divine flame called love, love of the lokos. This love nourishes and all our bodies, the etheric doubles, our emotional body, our nautical body, purifying them and uniting them with the lokos who is everywhere and in us. Breathe now deeply and put to yourself the question, who am I? What is love? Do I love? And whom I love? And again, make your heart a bright sun with golden light or canary yellow light, radiating the light around you. Feel that light. Clean our hearts to reflect you are love. I am the light of the world, said Joshua the Christ. To radiate this love towards God and towards all other human beings. Yesterday you brought certain people one by one with whom you had differences. Seeing them, lighted with this light of your heart, happy. Now bring more people around you. People you have differences and people you love. Fill this space, your nautical space, with people you know. See this light from your heart, shine on their faces and send with this light the wish, may God keep you always in good health and in his love. This is most powerful elemental, purely nautical elemental. The only desire they need is your wish to see these people in good health and living happily. Learn to create most powerful elementals. We can stop wars, but of course one has to learn how to love, starting from individuals, members of the family. Are you sure that you love all the members of your family? Or small differences created in yourselves, other feelings than love? Love your neighbor as your own self, not less. That's the big commandment. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another as I have loved you. And by this people will know that you are my disciples. By this people will know that you are Christians. A great honor and a great title indeed, to feel that you are good Christians. Beyond dogmas, heresies and stupid illusions, there is only one doctrine, Christian doctrine. Love. Learn to love so that you will feel happy because the love elemental will come back to you. This is a reward. And have that English proverb in your mind. Blessings and curses come back to roost in their source. So learn how to revitalize or create elementals, angelic elementals, something else. You cannot extinguish the fire with fire. We'll extinguish it by using water. And you cannot extinguish hatred or any other evil feelings except by love. Meditation means creating or revitalizing elementals. Our whole life is the creation of these elementals on the planet. The greatest art one should learn is to create good elementals, good thought forms for himself or herself and for the others in his family or outsiders. It doesn't matter. Daskalos-May-11-1992-A-EthericDoubles Our father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. What is, was always, is now, and will be always, is the absolute, infinite reality. The absolute, infinite beingness, God. What human beings, with their human intellect, intelligence, can understand is that this absolute reality, this absolute beingness, expresses the absolute, infinite selfhood. The selfhood means self-awareness. It is not just a blind power expressing the total wisdom. This is the proof of this absolute, infinite selfhood. One of the characteristics of this absolute, infinite selfhood, or beingness, is the self-sufficiency. But also, in this absolute, infinite selfhood and sufficiency, is the real pleasure of expressing itself in itself, expressing its total wisdom. So, from that very moment, which was always, and will always be, from this absolute, infinite beingness emanates the mind as super-substance, substance, ethereal energy, and matter. Everything is the mind. When we say the mind, we should not think just a handful of it, which is in the skull, because this mind is the expression of the absolute, infinite beingness. The expression. Mind is not God. It is not divine. It is holy. From this mind, super-substance, substance, ethereal energy, we call it etheric vitality, and matter, all the universes are created. Created, following the divine plan, the absolute, real pleasure of the infinite beingness by its multiplicity, which means the holy archangels. The holy archangels, beings, having their own selfhood, are vibrating in the same frequency with the absolute, infinite beingness, having as their nature the oneness, or the at-one-ment, feeling being one with the absolute, infinite beingness. Not as depending on the absolute, infinite beingness, but as part of the absolute, infinite beingness. So, now, the whole universe, the material universe, the world in which we are living, the world of the three dimensions, is the reflection and the expression of this total wisdom of the absolute, infinite beingness and of these beings, the archangelic orders, expressing the real pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness. Now, there are vast, vast fields of research for a seeker of the truth, and for anybody, just to investigate and learn about this total wisdom of the absolute, infinite beingness in the creation. But, of course, it's not only the material plane, the world of the three dimensions, the only universe, it's only one universe, and we have many universes. Apart from the material universe, which are all solid and all material things, from the galaxies to anything material on our plane, there are other universes, as the ethereal universe, as the so-called psychical universe, which is the mind's substance in certain qualities of the expression of this real pleasure of the infinite beingness. It is the noetical universe. Then it is the noetical again, the universe. Beyond, the human intelligence cannot pierce beyond this. The church is calling them the seven skies of the kingdom of heaven, which is in us, as Joshua the Godman revealed to us. Now, a human being is a being immortal and eternal, who has never been created as spirit in the absolute, infinite beingness. A self-ego, different though from the self-egos of the holy archangels, is a spirit reflecting itself through the total wisdom of the almightyness with the cooperation and the help of the brother archangels, and this reflection is the soul. Now, the soul and the spirit-ego are one. One, the one in its everlasting beingness, and the other one in existence now also. In existence, enters the world of existence, the macrocosm, or the absolute infinite beingness, in its absolute infinite selfhood, is incomprehensible. As incomprehensible is to the common human being now its own spirit-self, even the soul, but the soul macrocosmically corresponds to the locus, the manifestation of the will-pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness, now emanating the mind super-substance as the material by which all the universes will be created according to the divine plan. So, a human being apart from its spirit-soul-self is using the mind now as substance. These are reflections of its soul-self, the selfhood. Then, of course, the holy archangels create for the human beings, the spirit-soul, to be humanized and be incarnated, the various bodies to enter in them, use them, enter in them, a ray of himself entering them, not the whole spirit-soul-self, as you find after developing your selfhood super- consciousness. So, and then, these holy archangels, the root of the elements, create for a human being also his material body. So, we have a body corresponding to a relative universe. We have our material body corresponding to the material universe all around us. We have our etheric double of the material body, which is not a body, which corresponds to the ethereal world of the planet, in the planet, around the planet, many kilometers over the planet. We have also our so-called psychical body, the body of our emotions, which corresponds to the emotional counterpart of the planet. And it is the world, the so-called psychical world, the world beyond what is beyond, it's here also, in which we find ourselves after discarding, throwing away the material body, and we find ourselves every night when we are leaving our material body in deep sleep on our bed. So, corresponding to the noetical world of the planet, we have our noetical body, made by the holy archangels. Of course, the noetic nature of us corresponds to the noetic planes of the universes. So, a human being, in his material body and the other bodies, is what we call the microcosm, and everything that's outside is the macrocosm. Not to mention about the mesocosmic, which is the planet, the planet, all the other heavenly bodies. As I said, there is a very, very vast field of investigation for a human being. First to study the nature and the laws and everything concerning the material plane, the material planet. But developing his or her consciousness, a human being can investigate, by using now self-consciously his or her psychical body, the psychical world of the planet. With the psychical body, no one can live the psychical world of the planet. And by developing the consciousness and the self-consciousness to the levels of the noetical body, and using now the noetical body, self-consciously, he can be aware and live self- consciously in what we call the noetical world of our planet, and so on. But, of course, using these bodies, he has to observe the laws on those bodies, and study the laws of the relative universes, which are change of the sense of time, change of the sense of place, space. Though we have in the psychical world the human form we have now in matter, now we have it in substance, the psychical world, yet our form there is not limited to the sense of place. Nobody in the material body with his material body can be in two places at the same time, as no solid thing can occupy the place of another solid thing on the material plane. Yet, the laws of the psychical world are different. You can have the form of the human body, which is, if you want, everywhere on the psychical plane. Just think and feel, and you are there. Now, it's very, very difficult to understand this unless you practice them and you know them by your own personal experience. What do I mean? Even on the material plane, a fellow can be in his body or in her body, here, and yet with the same form can be seen in London, in America, in many other places, in the same form. They recognize you, they know you. You will say, but is it I there? As a soul, yes. As a personality, no. Of course, studying now the orthodox science, the phenomenon of telepathy, can know much more about the conditions and the laws governing what we call the ethereal world of our planet. Now, we are speaking also about the psychical world. Do we have an ethereal body as we have a material body? Yes, of course. Are etheric double? No. The etheric double is the mode in which the material body is built up every moment. But, we can have an ethereal body of our own, which the soul will use in projecting, spreading the self outside of the material body. So, the etheric double of the material body cannot leave the material body, because leaving it, the so-called silver core breaks down, and then what we say is a phenomenon of death of the material body, not of you. It will occur. But, can we travel in what we say is the ethereal world of our planet with our psychical body? Of course, we carry that with us also, but we have to construct an ethereal body, which is a kind of elemental of our self, and we can keep it. Cast only one. A good number of our person, we can just spread as elementals, and be aware of what is happening in every place we send this elemental of our self. Of course, this is a different thing from being self-conscious in what we say is the psychical world. The same can be repeated in the psychical world. But still, we have our form, our individual form, our own form, with our characteristics, with the characteristics of our self. But, of course, to understand what is the self, a soul, and the self, a spirit, it's not an easy thing. Unless you develop your so-called self-consciousness now to those higher levels, which are possible, permitted, yes, to become even as perfect as our Heavenly Father is perfect, because we are gods. As spirit, soul beings, we are gods, expressing a self on the material plane as our personality. So, our personality is in the world of limits, not our self and the other bodies, which we have to learn to use them. And we can use them. Now, we say that so that the material body to exist must have its mold, in which everything is built up, and that mold is changing, so that the body is changing. It starts from the spermatozoon. Everything undergoing a human being, from the time of conception to the time of passing over to the psychical world, is the creation of the holy archangels of the elements, using the mold, changing the mold, and by that changing the material body. And that mold starts from the spermatozoon. So, we have a mold changing all the time, and on it, it changes the material body. And that mold is not only the form of the human body. In it, there is every vein, every artery, every organ in that mold. Just consider the wisdom of these holy archangels of the elements, just keeping that mold for each one of us, changing it, and materializing that change in our material body. We start from the spermatozoon. This mold changes, and then on it is built every instant, not every moment, every moment, the material body. A great work. So, to know more about this etheric double, we have to contact these holy archangels, who are creating it, and by observation, and using the mind, learn the way they are working, and we can do the same, because we are gods as they are gods. When we grow up to that level of even the self-consciousness of our present personality, they are willing to contact us, because they are loving us. They are working in your body, whether you deserve it or not. They are working in your bodies, building the body, and if you don't interfere in a stupid way, to interfere in what we call the health of the material body, they are building most wisely. And every kind of illness is just this bad way of our living that makes this phenomenon called illness. Illness is unnatural. The health is natural. And in spite of what we are doing, causing to our material bodies, this illness, they insist to keep it in good order. To close down wounds, to join broken bones. This we have just to acknowledge it, know it, and study it. So, we can do that by starting knowing the existence of our etheric double of our material body and start using it consciously. You are using it already subconsciously. But you have now to study the nature of the etheric double of this mould and use it. At least consciously. A letter, self-consciously. Now, this etheric double has the form on which form the whole body and every organ is to be built up. But, at the same time, it radiates an aura all around it which we can see. From the change of the colours of this aura we can understand the condition of the health of that fellow or his or her emotional and medical life. But, of course, this is not something interesting as greatly. What is interesting right now is just to know it and start using it consciously. I said we are using it always. Subconsciously. How? As kinetic ether. One of the qualities of this etheric double is that etheric vitality in the etheric double of our body to be constantly under motion, movement. One of its nature is what we call the kinetic ether. Using the kinetic ether, the holy archangels are building up the material body. Now, another quality of this etheric double is what we call the feeling-giving ether or the aesthetic ether. Now, the kinetic ether, we are using it all the time, subconsciously. By getting up, moving our material body here or there, moving hands, feet, and even getting with our hands certain skills. We are using the etheric double as the kinetic ether subconsciously. Now, the aesthetic ether, we are using it subconsciously, feeling we are living. You know you are living. You feel it. The kinetic ether of your etheric double, that you feel you are living, even unconsciously. So, we have to use now this quality of the etheric double, consciously at first, and later develop this self-consciousness and use it self-consciously. Another quality of the etheric double is what we call imprinting ether. And this imprinting ether is the reflection of the noetical and psychical worlds in the human body, in the brains. It is through the brains we are thinking, subconsciously. We are receiving through the five senses impressions from outside, knowing the existence of all those things in a subconscious way, without understanding it. This is how a common man is living, man or a woman. Let us see now how do we use this super substance of the mind as seeing and understanding. How are eyes? Eyes are little balls. How big they are. A liquid in them. An optic nerve. And the eye is just created most wisely by the holy archangels and kept in good order to receive what we call the light, the rays of the light. What is our life on the material plane? More than the reflection of the light. Light emanates from the sun. Another vast field of investigation. The light, the material light, because apart from the material light, there are other forms of light. The material light's characteristic is reflection. Striking on surfaces and reflected. Coming back. Or towards us. Seeing. What is seeing? Just interpreting these rays of light. Nothing more than that. Now, there is an object somewhere. The light. Striking on it and reflected. Coming to us. If you stand in front of you, you see the things there. Very, very small in the eye. As a mirror. So those microscopic pictures, images, give an irritation to the optical nerve. Inside the eye. That irritation is passing over in a place. In the human brain. Causing again a vibration. And you, a mysterious entity in the body now, awakened. You see. No, we interpret vibrations and nothing more than that. You see things. Now, are you there also? No. Or you are confined inside the skull. Of course, I cannot reveal much on it. I'm not allowed to reveal more. You are also there. But you must just develop the self-consciousness to know. Is it the human eye necessary to see the common man? Yes, of course it is. It is. But when you develop your self-consciousness to higher levels, beyond the material body, you don't need it. Just as if I am asking you to communicate with somebody. Is it necessary to have a telephone and the wire? Most necessary if you are to use the telephone and with the material brains. But now you can use the wireless. Which was unknown before, some years. So I'm telling you, to the developed self-conscious being, the material brain is nothing more than a handful of earth matter. And that thing, by the death of the material body, will decay. If that was the source of my self-consciousness, then I shouldn't live beyond the death of the material body. Now, we are just seeing the light in its various vibrations. How can we be sure about that? We see far away a tree. Just a greenish mass. Cannot see much. In this distance from which you see it. And if you get a telescope, you see everything on the tree. You put birds in the branches, as if you are there. Which means that the light is reflected according to the distance, place, space, which has to be studied. It's changing distances. So you can, with certain means, magnifying glass or a telescope, just disentangle these rays coming to you by the distance and see things as if you are there. I say there are vast, vast fields of investigation on the phenomena of light on which depends our whole life on the planet. And unless you develop all these things and study them, how will you understand the laws concerning the ethereal light, the psychical light, the noetical light, the everlasting, unsetting light? Light is not only if you are emanating from the sun. And Christ, Joshua the Christ, said, I am the light of the world. He didn't say, I am the light emanating from the sun. He said, I am the light of the world. Now, through the etheric double, using, now subconsciously, this imprinting ether we can interpret all those vibrations producing in certain centers of our material brain the images all around us of everything we see, subconsciously. How can we use now, consciously, the light? Well, I say something more. By being there. By projecting yourself beyond the vibrations of the human brain. Which means projection of the self. Projecting what? Either an elemental of yourself there or projecting the whole self of you there. There are ways of learning that. But it needs a long, long training of many centuries. Until you develop what we call the self-consciousness of the personality then, because we are still on the personality of a man or a woman. We are not on the higher levels of the self-consciousness. We are on the levels of the consciousness, waking consciousness. So, if you succeed to reach to those levels everybody, sooner or later, will reach there. Not in this incarnation. In other incarnations. Because we are way back to ourselves. When? When you stop being intoxicated by the phenomena of life and matter around you. And especially getting yourself free from that, that great enemy which is the feeling of possessiveness. Possessing something which is outside of yourself. But it needs just to study conditions and understand the nature around you. Now you have to study now our so-called etheric double. As kinetic ether aesthetic or feeling- giving ether imprinting ether in the course of time being faithful developing these qualities in us the archangels wouldn't trust to the one developing the creating ether. Which they are using in building up the parts of your material body and keeping them in good order. And by learning that you are learning what you call materialization dematerialization and even changing the nature of matter transmutation even of metals of everything. But you are not supposed to become magicians or black magicians. There are dangers in our way of development. So have in mind these are the four natures of the mind etheric double which is in your body and around your body. You don't know it. You use it subconsciously without knowing how you do things but you have to learn using it now consciously. Which way? Concentration. It is fixing the attention through the etheric double on a certain thing outside but you can do it inwardly in visualization. You study things outside using the imprinting ether. Now you can use it inwardly by what you call introspection or looking within. Because there is no other way to know yourself even as the present day personality. Because you have to start from the present day personality of a man or a woman slowly, slowly developing and going up the ladder of knowledge. Now using the imprinting ether we can come in contact with our nautical body because it is a reflection of the nautical body. Developing the etheric double and the qualities of the etheric double we develop at the same time our nautical body. Developing what we call kinetic and aesthetic ether we are causing a development in our so-called psychical body. So all those bodies the material body with the etheric double the ethereal body the psychical body and the nautical body are connected and one is influencing the other. And we should learn how to use them separately and together. I say it needs sincerity with your personal self now wishing to know the truth and disentangling your personality self from the illusions of the material world. Now you say we have to give up many, many things from the material world. No! Of course not! This is stupid because God has created everything and everything created by the Holy Archangel and God is good. All things are materialized in admiring the material world which created by the Holy Archangel all around us is a paradise. Who cares about the material world from this point of view? One cares about things of the material world he is calling his own and craving all the time more and having nothing in reality. For no matter how much you call yours suppose you become blind what of all those possessions mean anything to you now? Not being able to see them. So these are things one should study. So the thesis study now for everybody is using the mind studying the qualities of the etheric double use the etheric double consciously now instead of subconsciously then developing his or her self-consciousness or the personality self to higher levels until you reach the real light. Which light? What light? Apart from the light emanating from the sun. You can find it in the Bible in the Gospel of St. John which is this light beyond Daskalos-May-11-1992-B-EthericDoubles Now, which is this light, beyond the material light, of reflection, that we should know? What St. John or Johann writes in the Gospel, according to St. John's Gospel, about the locus. The locus means manifestation. It is the real pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness, manifested by the absolute beingness. Now, we call it the locus. The manifestation. It writes that, in the absolute authority, is always the locus. The locus is in God, and God is the locus, the manifestation. And, continues, in it is life, and the life is the light of all men. And the life is the light of all men. So, this light now, is what we call the self-consciousness of the human beings. So, our self-consciousness is the light, knowledge, conception, understanding, by being human beings. It needs analysis. And, the life of the locus, Joshua Manuel de Caz was feeling himself completely being the locus. Because he emanated directly from the locus to come for a certain mission. It says clearly, and the life, and he said, I am the way, I am the truth, and life, now, what are the characteristics of life? And the light is, and the life is the light of men, of human beings. That means of the self-consciousness, of our self-consciousness. Not of ourselves, of our self-consciousness. There are two different things. The self, is our self, immortal, eternal, God. The self-consciousness now is the expression of that self, using the mind as super-substance, as substance, as ether, as matter, creating a self-consciousness in a material body, in a human being. But the human being is a creature, like all other creatures, and are different from the other creatures. All the other creatures are living around us, all the animal kingdom are living, they are alive. But they are not the light of life, and the life is the light of all men, creating the human consciousness. And no animal around us is developing a human consciousness or a self-consciousness. So we must study, what's a human self-consciousness, what's a self-consciousness, and what is consciousness, apart from being expressed. Because these are rather very difficult things, which one must know, personally, by his own experiences, after developing all these stages of the consciousness, from subconsciousness, which is the awakened consciousness, the self-consciousness, the self-super-consciousness, and then find out that I am not the expression as consciousness, but I am the self. Now, I am afraid I am in very deep waters now. It is not easy to come out of it at the time being of your development. Separate what is self from self-conscious expression and the various stages of consciousness. So there are fields, vast fields of research to find out who you are, what you are, what are your bodies, how the holy archangels are building them and dealing with your bodies. And you must start knowing things and do the same thing. There is another way of finding yourself, your real self, apart from a form and a name, male or female, with weaknesses, desires, weaknesses, hatred, jealousy, and so many other things. So we have to become masters of all that so that we come to what I call self-realization in two stages. Self-realization of our present day personality self, then beyond that, through that, we must find out our real self. Find out who we are at first and then what we are beyond who we are in time and place, space. I say there is vast field. Sooner or later, everybody has to go through all these experiences because we are gods. We are the lost sons who sooner or later have to come back to our home, to our real nature, to awaken in us ourselves as gods. Because if you study now the way and the conditions human beings are living all over the planet, in all parts of the world, highly civilized, civilized, or uncivilized, you will find that the human being is living subconsciously and heavily intoxicated by matter. You have to go beyond matter. I said not rejecting matter. No. Enjoy matter. Matter is created and we are creating a material body. We ourselves are the holy archangels just to enjoy material things around us. There is no prohibition in that. And in asking, even Joshua, the man of the cross, said, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Ask and it will be given to you, but seek and you will find the truth. You have to seek the truth. So, no need of rejecting or denying yourself even material things and enjoy them and love them. But what we have just to get rid of is the enchantment of things, becoming ourselves slaves of things. The things are to serve us and not to enslave us. Instead, we forget who we are, what we are, what is the aim of life. So, by developing the so-called consciousness in its various stages or degrees, we study first who we are as a male and female person, what we are as soul, what is our I-ness, what is that selfhood, and then what is our beingness, what are we as beings now, and not human beings, even human beings, because in a human body is the being, it's you, a spirit and soul. But you have to find it out, to awaken in your present-day personalities self-consciousness, the real self. There is no excuse. The whole archangels are forcing us to breathe and live, even a material body, so that the material body will live and in it we will experience the life as present-day personality, self. But you have been granted the mind to use it as substance, apart from the ethereal, as substance, super substance, to use it, developing in our etheric table the skill and the ability of using the imprinting ether, formulating it into images, into things. You are doing it subconsciously, building up subconsciously things you like to have, to possess, and which are just drawing your attention. But it's not only that. They enslave you. This is what we have to do. Know things, enjoy things, love things, but not become the slaves of anything material, anything psychical, and anything nautical. Use them. Because the fascination is not only in the material plane, it starts from the so-called psychical body. Because desires, emotions, and all that are brooding in the so-called psychical body, in what we call subconsciousness. So you have to know what is in the subconscious mind, in the personality of man, and control it. Know it and control it. Control emotion and control the mind. Using it now, not as a slave of the emotions and desires, but the master of them. But we should be the master of it also. Because there is another fear of enslaving yourself to the thoughts. So the idea is to get free of the slavery to the phenomena around you. To find your real self. Now, returning again back to the etheric double of our material body. You have described it as the most form, changing all the time. And by that change, the whole material body is changing because this is in that mode constructed. Organ by organ, blood cells, everything. Now, we should study, concentrating on the etheric double, that its energy or force or power constantly comes from the etheric world of the planet, from the psychical and the nautical. Because they are connected. And we see after study that our psychical body has an etheric double and our nautical body has an etheric double. This etheric double with the etheric double of the material body is the link between the bodies. We must learn how to keep that link. Then, we have to learn and know the centers of energy on the etheric double and in the etheric double, the surface and in it, which are corresponding to certain organs of the material body. These, the Hindus are calling them the chakras. We should know them, study them, and use them wisely. Most people, knowing, reading books from the East on these so-called chakras, they believe and they think they are located on the material body. Wrong. It is not the etheric double. But, they can influence the material body. And concentration on certain of these, we call them etheric centers, may create damages on certain organs of the material body. So, one should be careful. And I am telling you, I have seen many, many people who happen to have a book of yoga, Kata yoga and all that, from the East, and started concentrating on the various centers, on the various organs of the body, without knowing that they were on the centers, disturbing the organs and causing great damages. So, we must learn these etheric centers. But it needs much care. First of all, there are many, many, many centers of energy, the etheric double. It is like a sponge, getting the etheric vitality, giving it to the material body. And, every pore of the material body is a center. How will make the pore breathing something to be given in higher circles? It is breathing the ethereal substance. Other centers of energy are the fingers, the tips of the fingers. They are creating what we call fingerprints. They are not of so much importance. Every toe has a center of energy. Then, we have also centers in other parts of the etheric double, corresponding to the material body. The whole foot, the knees, and other parts. Important centers of energy under the control of the Holy Archangels are the genitals. It is what we call the solar plexus. It is the heart. It is the spleen. The spleen. And the liver. Because the Easterners do not know other centers, but we know more. The lungs. The lungs are centers. They give us two other centers in the head, in the human brains. These are the main centers. But we have centers in every eye, in every nostril, in the tip of the tongue, in every part of the face. When we start using the etheric double and the etheric vitality of the human body, we have to start concentrating on every part of the material body, the surface of it. We shouldn't concentrate in the heart. It is most dangerous. Concentrating in the solar plexus is not dangerous at all. So we can start there. Concentrating in the genitals is also dangerous. Nature takes care of the genitals. Everybody knows how they function, though most people are making very, very bad use of these holy organs. Really, very bad use. I am telling you, at least 80% of all the illnesses of the human body come from the bad use of these organs, on a man or a woman. Now, in our center, we can concentrate in the solar plexus. What does it give? Something known all through the centuries, and you can find it even in the Old Testament. It opens the gates of your subconsciousness to the psychical world. But, is it wise to wake it up? Before controlling your emotions, your desires, and your present-day personality? Because suppose you open and you find yourself in the hell you are now, of envy, of jealousy, of hatred, and you see things that happily you cannot see now. Is that wise? Many are working, and they are under obsessions. So, it is not advised to do that before getting mastery over desires, emotions, and his own personality's weaknesses. You must be careful about that. Now, in the heart, we should never concentrate. This is the seed of the locus. But, certain exercises we are doing, you are allowed to do, is by kinetic and aesthetic ether to move around and touch certain centers, not concentrating on them. By using the imprinting ether, you have to use the colors. Use, at the beginning, disks of light moving around them and passing through certain centers, and later use, what you call, the spheres, holy spheres, moving on them, in the center of them. But, of course, this training and this teaching is given to the innermost circles. So, we have also the head. At first, we use, what you call, the disk, and then the sphere. How do we do that? Creating an elemental and moving on that elemental. Having it in our etheric double. Immediately imprinted on the etheric double of our psychical body and of our medical body. But, before trying to do that, we must get the skill of visualization. That means, using what we call the imprinting ether of our etheric double. So, it needs some exercises until we become masters of the visualization. Let's start working through the kinetic and the feeling-giving or aesthetic ether in our material bodies on the etheric double and in the etheric double of our material body. By so doing, now we know that not only it exists, but we can use it. Nobody will tell you you don't know because you use it now. And by using it, you know and you are sure of its existence. Now, what are the powers, let us call them like that, granted to you? No! Which you develop in you, you have them. You simply bring them to the surface. Nothing is given to you. You have it and you develop it. That's all. Which are these? Projection. Science calls it telepathy. Psychology. Psychometry. You can get the vibrations of anything you can hand and feel it. It is using the feeling or aesthetic ether of our etheric double. So there are many, very many let us call them powers. People call them psychical powers. It's wrong. These are ethereal powers. Not psychical powers. The psychical powers are still beyond and this is controlling and mastering your desires and emotions. These are what we call understanding and feeling. So what people call psychical powers are not at all psychical. They are things you gain by controlling the etheric double of your material body. Even projection. What is exosomatosis now? And what is different from projection? Now exosomatosis is when you leave the material body and using the psychical body and the ethical body, you move anywhere you like on the planet. That's exosomatosis. But then you are not using at all the etheric double of your material body because you said it cannot leave the material body. Of course you can make an elemental using your etheric double of the material body entering it and project it. Project it where? Anywhere you like! Can I do three or four or five of them and project them in many places and get information at the same time from all those places through those elementals of myself? Yes, but you have first to develop your self super-consciousness which is not a work in the etheric double. When one develops the self super-consciousness can project elementals of himself any number on any part of the world and get information of what he wants. Not of that moment only but piercing this sense of time and place because the place is changing all the time. It is under constant change. Shall we call that visualization? It is a kind of visualization but you receive not the one you create. Of course there are not words to express all of these phenomena which one can develop. So, any practical use of it? More practical for the psychotherapists? Yes, of course it is. It is enough. Visualization and concentration and using just the etheric double reaching a certain organ corresponding to that center, you can use your willpower to remove pain and restore health in your body or in the body of anybody else provided you are permitted by the Holy Spirit. Provided that fellow is not under the burden of a debt he has to pay, not as punishment but as a lesson, a precious lesson. This again is something you have to study by using the mind and logic. When you do things, I was speaking about the so-called psychotherapists, and you see that you send the etheric vitality and even through visualization you see things. You find obstacles. Don't fight with the will of the Holy Spirit. Just make a prayer. And you never know the extent of the mercy of the Holy Spirit and of the Almighty. So these are things which one personally has to investigate and study. Now, relax completely your material body. Relax Relax completely. Every muscle should be relaxed. Start from the feet. Breathe deeply and comfortably, not with difficulty. Inhale, exhale. Exhale. Inhaling, four beats, which I will do myself now. Exhaling, again four beats, first feeling the lower part of your chest. Start breathing. Exhale. Inhaling. Exhaling. Inhaling. Do it consciously. Inhale. Out. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Exhale. Exhale. Inhale. Now, when you are alone, do it for five minutes. Inhaling, these beats are the beats of your heart. Feeling the lower part, then the upper part, then exhaling, emptying first the lower part and then the upper part. Some of you who are in doubt, apply to Paul and Paul will show you how to do that. Breathing is the most important thing for the life of the material body. Have it in your mind. Well, it is something I would say now, which you don't like, but I have to say that. Nothing more stupid than smoking. You don't need tobacco in the smoke. In your lungs, you need oxygen and etheric vitality. So, it is a very, very bad habit. Smoking. The lungs are in need of oxygen and etheric vitality and not nicotine. Which, apart from making damages in the lungs, it is also poisoning the whole blood system. Of course, I leave it to the medical doctors just to elaborate on that thing. I am not going to mention that. The only thing I say is that smoking is a necessary thing for our life. So, breathing properly through the nostrils with closed mouth it is the life of our material body. So, the first thing you have to know is using the aesthetic and the kinetic ether of the etheric double in breathing. But use it now consciously. You are breathing subconsciously without noticing it or knowing it. Now, we have at least for some time taken away from our head every thought, every feeling and concentrate only in breathing for five minutes. What will be the result? You will find it out. Tomorrow we will continue the lesson on how to create constructing elementals in helping you in your work and how you will be using this what we call etheric vitality consciously. We give more exercises in moving kinetic ether, diastatic ether around discs which you will create as elementals in the etheric double of your material body. So, some of you who have devoured eastern books and you are in confusion because I can get it from your thoughts have many, many questions. You will give these questions to Paul or to others and of course if these questions are only lessons not personal questions only lessons on your doubts of what you have studied until now will be answered as a lesson but serious questions please Are you going? Telling me to go? Everybody is waiting for you. Everybody is waiting for you. I know. Let me breathe. Thank you. Daskalos-May-25-1992-A-Heaven-or-Hell Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us, while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For Thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting Yourself, in Yourself, as Your total wisdom and Your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand You as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect Your love towards You, and towards all other human beings. Amen. In many lessons, we said, what is, always, is the everlasting life, for God. The absolute, infinite reality. The absolute, infinite beingness. There was no time where this absolute reality, this absolute, infinite beingness, the absolute selfhood, was not in its own nature. So, human intelligence, all through these centuries, tried to understand, what is this life? What is life? They are living beings. They saw phenomena of life all around them, on the material world. Man found himself living in a material body, in a material world. Other phenomena of life are living as phenomena of life, in the material world. The cross-material world. But what is the difference now, between a human being, as a phenomenon of life, and all the other phenomena of life all around? Man, the vegetable kingdom, the animal kingdom. So, there was a difference. Lions. All through these centuries, remained lions. And lambs, remained lambs, and cows, cows. And apes, remained apes. The apes are not our ancestors. Nothing more blasphemous than what Darwin said. Apes are still apes, in the forest. But what is the difference now, between a human being, and any kind of animals all around us, on the material world? This. We said, animals remain animals. They express simply, a form of the mind, as instinct. They have that instinctive consciousness, kind of sensibility. Nothing more than that. Under their instincts, they eat. Yes, sleeping also, waking, going around, searching for their food, one way or the other. The vegetarians, the animals eating grass, different from the others, who are eating flesh. All of them are following their instinct. The human being is different now. We see him, all through these centuries, being a caveman, with a club in his hand. Starting, using, even subconsciously, the mind, as thought, to protect himself. This is the difference between the animal life, and the human beings. Now, he is improving, all through these centuries. He started thinking, who am I, and what am I? No animal has done that until now. To put the question to its species, what they are. They simply graze, eat, live instinctively, born, and pass over, die. Why? Because they are the parts of life, and not life itself. While the human being is the parts of life, as a phenomenon, as a human being, but in that phenomenon, is itself good. No animal has this selfhood. Which means, he or she is, in reality, a god. So, all through these centuries, those wise ones, were engaging themselves, not only with the instinctive necessities of life, how to eat, and this and that, but they started now, using the mind. To investigate, and find the truth. What is life? What can life be? I am a phenomenon of life, just the same as all the other phenomena of life all around me. As a material body, there is no difference. Bones, flesh, blood, organs, under the same material laws, living on the material plane, a phenomenon of life as all the other phenomena of life in the animal kingdom. But who am I now? Then the human being started to think, what is sex? I see male and female persons, in the cave, in the family, later in the community, in the society, everywhere. What is that? What is the aim of that? Who has decided, the human being, to be separated into male and female? Something I see all the phenomena of life around me. They are male and female. And he found out the reason why there was a person, a purpose in prolonging the species. So, he started thinking, apart from the way I am thinking, I am under certain laws. And I obey them. I have to obey them. And all the animal life around me is obeying to these laws. Who has imposed these laws in the material universe? Then the human being started to study the conditions and the laws governing matter. No animal has done that until now. No animal in future will do it. Then the human being, using the mind, subconsciously, not consciously, managed to reach the present stage of development. Great. Man succeeded to build huge buildings. He was building huge buildings at the time of the Egyptians, of the Aztecs, of the Incas. Now more comfortable. He had found electricity, magnetism, and many, many other things, unknown in the past, still existing, waiting for an intelligence to bring them forward. No animal has done that until now. No horse or cow, or ox, engaged its existence in these things. The human being, I say again, using the mind, subconsciously, managed to create computers, make life, let us say, easier, not happier. What is the human being going yet to achieve? Did he master everything? The forces, the powers in nature? What are these powers in nature? Which he is finding out from day to day, as the Orthodox science. Of course, a seeker of the truth has great respect towards those scientists that are supporting the truth in the material world. I said, human beings have found out many, many, many things, and yet they will find more. They managed to fly to the moon. They will master even space. But, is man today living in a palace? Even the poorest house, now today, lighted by electricity and having so many facilities, is better than a palace in the past, just having light with torches, and the walls becoming black with smoke, and breathing that contaminated atmosphere. So now, life is supposed to be easier for everybody. Is human being happier? No. Why? Because he has used the so-called human intelligence subconsciously, using his subconscious mind, in getting knowledge from the outside world, all around him, through the five senses. Now, the five senses, considered from a human point of view, and as the great work of the archangels, in the creation, something great, indeed. But considered from a higher point of view, of the soul, the spirit, it's nearly nothing. So, now knowing our possibilities, and probabilities, we must turn our attention somewhere else. Why all the time outside? And getting images and messages from the outside world, inwardly, placing them subconsciously, in a kind of beingness, which is our present personality. What is our present personality? So, this is what makes man today unhappy. Trying to master everything outside, material, in the material world, without studying, learning, and knowing who he or she is. What's life? Which is our way? We are going towards what? Mastering all the time the outside world, the material plane, and just satisfying a certain nature of us, which we have to study, yet we don't study it, and we are its slaves, which is desire. Who cares what is a desire? What he cares is how to satisfy his desires, enslaving the mind to the desires. Becoming rich, becoming powerful, just getting authority. Yes, that's what the human beings are doing today, everywhere. Now, is it bad just to use, even subconsciously, the mind, in becoming rich? No. Of course not. What is wrong is enslaving the self to the material world. There is nothing wrong in wine. What is wrong is becoming drunkard, not using it, and just abusing it. That's the same with everything outside, material. That's why a human being is unhappy. What is happiness then? God has given us the mind. We said in a lesson that everything is the mind. Everything solid is solid mind. Because the mind, as we said in a lesson, emanates from the absolute infinite beingness and the absolute infinite beings, the Archangels, to express the absolute infinite beingness. And the Archangels, with pleasure of manifesting themselves in themselves, that means being life, to expand life as phenomena of life. So they did, by using the mind as supersubstance. Now, do we have the right to use the mind ourselves? But you have to put in your mind now, but the same mind is not that handful of matter which is in the skull, which you call brains. That's matter. Mind is everywhere. The supersubstance, the substance, the ethereal substance matter and matter, everything is mind. Now, can we use the supersubstance of the mind ourselves? Are we allowed to do it? But we are using it subconsciously. How did we manage to create so many things around us? Computers, beautiful houses, and everything, by using the mind subconsciously? Since we have the right to do that, why don't we have the right to use it consciously and then self-consciously? And what do we gain by using the mind consciously and self-consciously? Nor say, what does it mean using the mind consciously and self-consciously? In which way will we know that? By observation, meditation, to see what comes after that. Using concentration, meditation, there must be a result of it. What is the result of it? Concentration of the mind. If I have a magnifying glass and I concentrate a few rays of the sun on a sheet of paper, it will catch fire. That's a phenomenon. By the concentration, through some means, the magnifying glass, of the sun's rays. Otherwise, everywhere are the rays of the sun, and we feel cold. We have a cold sun during the winter. Yet, a few of those rays can make a paper catch fire. Such is the mind. Concentration and meditation. Using the rays, the material rays, of the magnifying glass. Concentrating a few rays of the mind's super substance, and you see the result. Which means knowing whatever you want to know, by concentrating the mind on these things we know. It's leading us to knowledge. And still more and more and more. But we have just to find a way of doing it. So, the secret now is to use the mind in the right way. We are using it in the wrong way now. Definitely. And how? By enslaving the mind to serve so many petty unbridled desires. From morning to night. Desiring, desiring, desiring, changing desires and just enslaving the mind in this or that or that desire to serve that or that emotion. And we call that life. That is not life. That is the way that makes a human being unhappy. How is the right way of using the mind? And what the mind, by using it in the right way, will offer me? First of all, what it is offering me now, using it in this way. This you have to study. And using it in the right way, that means not enslaving it to serve the desires, the emotions and all the human expressions, what do I gain? Now, using it subconsciously can gain many, many things, wealth, everything. In using it in the wrong way, desiring and enslaving the mind's desires, I project, I create elementals. What are the elementals? You have to study these things. And by studying these things, we find out that our whole personality now, having as its backbone our egoism, which we make the mistake to consider it as our self, is leading us to unhappiness, to confusion. So, as we said in the lesson, whatever we see, without thinking about it, whatever, after seeing it, had excited in us and created a desire to approach it, to touch it, to know it, to have it, to possess it, whatever made us think subconsciously, how to serve the desire, creates an elemental. Now, can you imagine how many elementals you are creating all through the day? Many. Many. And during the night? Yet, during the night, while sleeping, you are creating elementals, continuing the work instinctively and subconsciously. And then, what is the result? The sum total of these elementals, good or bad, I would not call them evil, are composing your present personality. You make the mistake to think that it is yourself. This is the wrong use of the mind, just creating unchecked elementals and composing them into our existing selfhood. But we said the self is God. Yes. It is God. So the personality of a man has its inner nature, which is God, the selfhood, but now, in time and place, the material world, by making bad use of the mind, creates a new entity, which is the human being as it is today. So what is a human being now, a man or a woman? A God covered with illusions, which he has to set himself free from all these illusions. Those elementals. Because these elementals cannot be seen by the human eyes. But if you develop what I call clairvoyance, you can see them. Because they have, as their body, the ethereal mind-matter-substance. They have a form. And if you see them, you will be frightened by what you are creating, especially when desires are unbridled, just strong, and create what we call human weaknesses, hatred, enmity, jealousy, the feeling of taking revenge, of destroying what belongs to others and you didn't have the chance of gaining. And if you see in yourself what you call your subconsciousness, which is nearly a jungle, you will be frightened. So, a God covered with mud, a material body, and dirty substance, which you call unbridled desires, passions, weaknesses, and under just this false behavior of enslaving the mind, the holy mind, the mind is holy, to the service of petty, unholy desires, most of the times. Is that not what a human being is doing nearly every day? And then you are wondering, why there is so much unhappiness in the world, so much confusion, so much dissatisfaction. So, education, directing subconsciously the mind towards a certain way, this is just the force of the mind. You can gain the powers in your concentration, which means you can become a scientist, knowing many, many things, a physician, and all that. Get skills and abilities which means knowing much, much more than the others what concerns the material world around us. What is the game? You have many, many scientists, I have seen too many, doctors of medicine with degrees, masters and all that, and doctorates who with the least provocation they are upset, they are getting angry, slapping their wives, kicking their children. What is the use of that education? It is becoming unhappy, feeling unhappy. So, present day education, I cannot say it is not good, but it is not enough, which means man should not all the time just concentrate on outside things, which he is getting through the five senses, storing them in his so-called subconsciousness. But now, he should start studying, what am I? What is this subconsciousness of mine? What is this personality of mine? What is the thing that makes me unhappy? What is life? Am I now living in the right way? Is the infinite divine life projecting itself, humanizing me, having that intention of making a creature unhappy? Of course not. So, now one should start getting inward, in himself, to find himself, and study what is life? What are these elementals composing my present day personality? What is the nature and the quality of my so-called subconsciousness? Living. Now, I am living in a material body. One should study what is the material body. How is the material body? There is a lesson before some days, studying the body of a young man. You know, what is the body of any young man? As organs, and as a human body. Studying the body of a young woman, you know, how is the body of any young woman? Same organs, the same place. But we never study a human being by studying another human being as a character, as a person. Never. Two men or women are alike the same, which means that the personality of a man is not the product of their material bodies. Then, by studying the matter, we find out that we are not the material body. The material body is given us to live in, recompose ourselves every morning after entering in a kind of non-existent period during the night, recomposing our personality, not ourselves, our personality. Mary is recomposing Mary, and George is recomposing George, who is not annihilated by passing in that non-existent period of dreamless life. Who is that kind of personality? Being able to recompose itself. It is able to recompose itself the next day as Mary and as George because the nature of it is God. It is the selfhood. This needs study to find who we are and what we are. Who we are? A name, a body, and a way of living. This is what we are. And what we are? In who we are, it is always changing. Not a personality is the same as the other person. But now, what we are? What we are is unchanging. It is all the same in every human being. It is God. It is our real selfhood. Then we have to study what is that self. No animal can express a self. Human beings, being gods, their nature is the selfhood. And the right and the ability of using the mind in knowing things. Using the mind. How? At the beginning, through the material brains. At the beginning. But in developing the so-called consciousness, later what we call self-consciousness, as a step or two above the subconsciousness, we find out that we are not in need anymore of the material brains to think and express ourselves and receive impressions from any world, not only the cross-material world, but also the other worlds, the psychical and the medical worlds. Then we find out that the scene on which we have to express ourselves is not only the material plane, that means one-third of the surface of the planet. There are other worlds of other dimensions. And other dimensions. Did ourselves know that? Yes, of course they knew. And they were moving freely there. And those wise ones in the past were just describing these worlds. Christ! Why Christ was humanized? The locust directly was humanized and incarnated into a human being. Just to wake us up, to teach us that we are gods, just living and behaving like animals. That's his ministry on the earth. And so, he spoke about his father, he spoke about himself being also part of the father, being one with the father, which means he spoke to us about what we call atonement or oneness. It's there in the Bible. These are degrees of the consciousness we have to develop just to reach the self- realization, to understand who we are. But you cannot do that unless you develop in your present personality the self-superconsciousness transmuting this present personality into its real self, which is God. This is our way. So our way is not only what we call today human education in a profession, in a direction, in getting degrees, and certain skills and abilities about that and that branch of science. I said that's good, very, very good, but not adequate. We have to find out who we are, what we are, and develop our self-superconsciousness. I said before we have to use our material brains for the time being. But when you master, what I say, exosomatosis, getting outside of your body, you don't need the material brains anymore. The material body is lying on a bed, and the material brains, they are inactive, yet you are thinking and behaving in a better way as a selfhood, which means you don't need to leave the human brains. Yes. Man found out just to communicate in great distances, having what you have, a telephone. To have a telephone, you need the same means, electricity, that power. In the wires, you need wires. You need a receiver, the broadcasting thing to talk with. Yes, for years and years we were using what is the telephone. And now we are using the telephone again. And we can talk in great distances from America to Cyprus, to Germany, to England, through the wire. But we don't need it anymore. We have the wireless now. We don't need the wire. We can use the force around it, which is electricity, cosmic electricity, in conveying messages without the wire. Which means we are using the material brain. Yes, it's a kind of telephone, through the nervous system and all that. But we can learn just to use what we call now the wireless, which is a higher stage of our consciousness. Which means we are now using the material brains subconsciously to store up in our subconsciousness through the material brain, making images and things through sight, seeing. It is the subconscious way. When you raise your consciousness to what we call waking consciousness, you are developing different abilities. Of conceiving and living. But raising your consciousness to the self now consciousness, you don't need the material brain and the material body any longer. You can get out fully conscious of who we are, even as a personality, not as a soul in the beginning. And what do you find out? That the death of the material body means nothing. It is not annihilating your personality as Mary and George. And you can find yourself as Mary and George in what we call the psychical world, which is where? Here! We just change frequencies of vibrations. Vibrations from that to that rate give us the matter. Higher it gives us the ether. The air, the ether, and then the psychical world. And then the noetical world. So the only world of existence is not the solid matter, earth and soil, or the material body. So leaving the material body you still exist as you are today, a man or a woman, a name, how? We shall say how. You are sleeping at night. In every 24 hours you have to pass through that state which we call dreamless. Sleeping. Where are you then? Where? You are not in the material body. The material body is there. The heart, yes, it beats more slowly now. Where are you? You have to pass through some time in a state of non-existence. Yet you wake up in the morning and you recompose that self of yours into your personality, Mary and George. Entering the material body starts from the beginning. Returning back from the non-existent state you are never left to what you were before sleeping. So you recompose the personality since your self is God. What is death? Leaving your material body and recomposing your personality as it was before passing away. Passing away? You are passing away during the night. You are not in the material body but you are returning to it. Now you don't need to come back to the material body. You are leaving it to decay, to pass away. But you recompose yourself in the morning in the material body. Now, by the death of the material body you recompose your personality again because you are God. It is your selfhood who can do that into your psychical body. Then you find yourself in the psychical world which is for you then as real as the material world. Can you not do that while being in the material body, living in the material body? Of course you can. But you need training, long training to recompose the self consciously when you reach the self consciousness in the psychical world. Here. Many can do it. Then we call that self conscious exosomatosis out of the body. That's life. Better life. Finding yourself where? The psychical world is here. It is the psychical body of our planet. Finding ourselves where? In a hell. Or in a paradise we have created now. I call it a shell hell. Somewhere in the psychical world. But the psychical world is nice and perfect. In scenery. Whatever we have on the material plane we have them on the psychical plane. And much, much, much more. And better. In the material world the change is quick. Flowers wither. Animals die. And all that. In the psychical world it is not so. Things there are more durable and more real. In different kind of light. It is not light emanating from the sun as it is on the material plane. But in the psychical plane everything is self lighted. I am speaking from personal experience. There is no comparison between the psychical world and the material world. It is the underground. The dark underground of a huge building. Our material world. There are other stories. Another flood. Daskalos-May-25-1992-B-Heaven-or-Hell Some people, during the night, when they are outside of their bodies, they wake up. And when they come back, they recall in the morning that they have seen a very beautiful dream. Most of you have that experience. But, after all, it's a dream. No, it's not a dream. It's an experience in the psychical world. They are not dreams. They are experiences. Somebody will say, yes, of course, but, I have seen a very bad nightmare, seen stupid things, which are not real, and all that. Everything is good and real. The way you imprint it in your self-consciousness in the morning is wrong. And I give an example. If your material brains are a camera, and you see a landscape, and you get it, without turning it, which is the means of time. Time is different in the various worlds. Without turning it, you get another landscape, and then another landscape, and then another landscape. When you develop it, what do you see? Nothing. All mixed up. I'm telling you, everything is in its place. What is wrong is the way you brought it in your so-called waking consciousness in the morning. But there are ways, and training, and exercises, which when you do, you know how to live properly in the psychical world. Then you find out that you live in the same way you are living in this world. No confused images or impressions, but everything is in its right place. So it's also the so-called nautical world. And I'm telling you, intelligent beings all through these ages and now are studying all these worlds, which are worlds of different dimensions. So the world of existence, and the world of life on it, is not only the one third of the surface of the planet, but there are other worlds, many worlds. Jesus Christ said to his disciples, in the house of my Father, there are many, many mansions. I go to prepare a place for you. Now we start to study, what is place? What is space? So there are many, many things we have to study and know what they are. So, I come again back. Studying things in the cross-material world, in the form of science, any kind of science is good, but not enough. We have to introspection to study ourselves, as a personality, how this personality is composed, of what it is composed, this personality. And then, study the conditions in life we are living, know things, so that we should set free ourselves from the illusions of what the material world is giving us. Jesus Christ said, know the truth and the truth will set you free from the illusions. So, this I call introspection. Introspection to study what? In the material world and our nature, our material body as human beings. To study the psychical, the noetical, the noetic world, all these worlds, and study ourselves as our etheric double to know it and handle it and use it, the same way we are using our hands. To study the psychical world, to live in them self-consciously, that means to raise our consciousness let us call it waking consciousness, to what we call self-consciousness. Self-consciousness, now, knowing what we are as human beings. I said, a name, a form, our emotions and our thoughts, so we have solid ground to work on. And then, find what? Becoming masters of the mind, masters of our etheric double, masters of our so-called psychical body, controlling desires, emotions, and cleaning that bad-smelling, muddy pool, which you call sub-consciousness of the personality, and then, start using the mind now, as a reason, not enslaving it to desires, but just using it. So, being able now to live self-consciously in the other worlds, in so doing, we know what's life. We know who we are. You say, don't we know who we are now? I'm telling you, no. You don't know. You make the mistake to think that the personality's egoism of yours is yourself, which is not. But after meditating, knowing, and through introspection, you reach to your decision, which means becoming masters of these desires, becoming masters of these emotions, cleaning what I said is sub-consciousness, becoming masters of the mind, you put to your equation, who am I then? I am not the material body. I'm using it. It's mine. Though I know very little about the material body, unless I open a book on anatomy. I am not my emotions, since by now I have succeeded to check them, to find out what they are, and how they are influencing me, and having now the right to control them, replace them, change them. Therefore, I am not my emotions, since I can control them. Are my thoughts, my thoughts I was doing until now, the great mistake, to enslave the mind to the service of the thoughts. But now, I can control my thoughts. I can think what I want, and I can change things. So I am not the thoughts either. So I am not the material body. I am not the emotional nature of mind. I am not the thoughts. What am I? Then you find yourself. You will get the reply from within. I am I, that I with capital letters. You found that you are the soul self, ego, and not what you are expressing in time and place, most awkwardly, as your personality, egoism, leading you to unhappiness and dissatisfaction. Now you know who you are. You become the master of the seven heavens, and the kingdom of the heavens, Joshua the Christ said, is in us. In our own nature as gods. Then you find who you are. You will put the question, becoming a god? You will never become something you are not. We are gods all the time. But now we realize it by uncovering that self of ours from the shadow of death and influences and delusions of time and place, of the material world, of the emotional world, and the nautical world. And how can we know? By starting meditating and making what we call the introspection, looking within. Be sure that we are on the same way. Because most people, even scientists, all the time have that thought of doubting. Am I on the right way? Is that what I am doing right? How should we be sure that we are on the safe and right way? Because I have not come to religion now again, to say what Joshua the Christ said, I am the way, the truth and life. So the way is truth and life. How to find out what is truth and life? Now how shall we find out that we are on the right way of meditating? Using introspection. Because by so doing, it's a long training though. You have to manifest certain abilities. You raise your so-called consciousness, let us call it waking consciousness, while it is three-fourth subconsciousness, to what we call self-consciousness now, from simply consciousness. Now you start studying your personality, knowing it. You are on the first step of the self- consciousness and you find out what? The inner nature of my personality is my self-god, a god. My expression is the egoistic expression of my personality. They find out that I am the sum total of the elementals, which are composing my personality. And with these elementals I have built up my shell hell or my shell paradise, which is classifying me in certain sub-plane of the psychical world. As I said in a lesson, nobody is keeping records. There is not a judgment day. The judgment day is every moment. There are not any archangels or angels. They are loving, curing wounds, joining bonds, putting down your faults and coming as accusers. This is wrong. But Christ said, whatever one sows, so he shall reap. It's a law. In the nature of the infinite beingness, it is a law in an inner, real self. Somebody, yes, is recording, but that's you, who is recording what you are doing. So we are recording. Where? In the mind, in the sub-consciousness. So the recording is every moment. You think, you desire, and you act. You are recording everything. And according to what you are recording, what you are sowing, so you shall reap. So, in passing over, closing your eyes, leaving the material body, and leaving the material body to die, to dissolve, to decay, you never find out in any paradise or in any hell. You are not now. Who is blessing you there? Just your vibrations? Are blessing you the right vibrations of the psychical plane? You enter naturally in your hell or in your paradise. What can we do to save ourselves from these hells? And how are these hells? I said that the psychical plane is splendid, lovely, everything, but one going there, finds himself in a sub-plane of that splendid world, yet enclosing himself in his shell, hell or shell paradise, creating with his sub-consciousness he is carrying, a world of his own. So, he doesn't see outside. He sees what he has created for him, with his desires, passions, weaknesses, and way of living. So, is that shell, hell, everlasting, eternal, as even the orthodox religion of the Christians is teaching? No! Because that is an insult to God. To God who is most merciful, cannot create a human being to live less than a hundred years sometimes, very certain to go beyond that, and cast him to everlasting hell. That's a blasphemy. Don't accept it. Each one finds himself in his, which he has created, shell, hell. How he will come out of it? Is anybody forcing him to stay there? No! Anyone can get out of his or her shell, hell, if one wants that great joy to the angels in heaven, as Joshua the Christ says, for one who returns back home to his own nature, whether he is living on the material plane or in the other planes. So, there is no judgment day. In the sense they are presenting it, no. But the judgment day is every moment. The hot one is judging himself in the way he is going to live. Now, I'll tell you an example which I know. Many invisible helpers, who can live self-consciously in all the world, would try just to wake up people living their shell hells. When I was a child, there was a neighbor in our locality, very quiet some fellow. This woman, getting up in the morning, would open the windows and start quarreling with everybody, trying to find causes to shout and shout, and insult and say many, many things. She was under this great form of attacking, insulting and all that. To that extent, these elementals she was creating were enslaving her personality. And everybody in the locality was afraid of her. Of course, I was hearing this woman. I met her the other day. I'm 78. I was hardly eight at that time. Seventy years. For her, yesterday or before yesterday, losing the sense of time in the psychical world, it's a world of different dimensions, finding her, opening that half-broken window, because the place she was living in had been demolished, and a huge building is there. Yet she's seen that in her shell hell. The whole environment, she knew it. Opening the window and shouting and shouting. Of course, I wouldn't present myself as I am now. I presented myself as I was there, not to make her scared. I told her, look around you. Stop shouting. Stop insulting that neighbor of yours. Her neighbor, who was a young lady, and she sees her as a young lady. She's living in the world of her elementals. Became a grandmother with grandchildren, and she passed over, not being influenced by her anymore. But she was fighting with an elemental she created of that young woman then. I told her, look here. Instead of shouting and shouting and shouting, don't you think it's better to leave this place? We'll take you to another place. I will give you a better place. And you go there. Yes, I will think it over, but let me now just show her what I want. Start shouting again. She will remain in that condition for many, many earthly years yet. I'm telling you, nobody forces anybody to stay in his or her shell-hell. Anybody can come out if he wants to come out. But who really wants to come out, since their shell-hells for them are their paradise, giving them painful satisfaction, insulting someone, yes, of course, I will show her, and all that. Do you understand what I mean? So we have now, from now, to start demolishing that shell-hell of ours, so that we will not find ourselves when passing over in such a fearful place we create. And now, for the invisible helpers, no one can help another one unless by compassion, which means showing a better state of condition, and you have to cure. Yet, at least 80% of the people will not make the change. Will you leave me in my little home? Oh, that big one, I don't want it. I want to live here because I love it. So it is very difficult to take from a shell-hell someone considering his or her shell-hell as their paradise. Of course, this one will learn when one will live self-consciously there as an invisible helper. So, what is the way for everybody, not only living in the material world, even in the psychical world and in the ethical world? Because you have to help people not only living in the material world, in the other worlds also. What is it? The way. What was the mission of Joshua the Christ coming to the world? Teaching. A thousand times I said that the best friend of every human being, a Christian, should be the New Testament. There is the whole truth in it, and the way, and the truth, and life. What is it? To study their personality. Sincerely to classify things as good or bad. I say I don't like to use the word evil. And then decide to make corrections. After all, for his or her own benefit. As present the conditions are, a human being is unhappy. One is not satisfied. So, in starting through introspection, the right way of meditation, by observation and sincerity with the real self, starting as the present day personality self, Mary or George, study seriously conditions in life, the way they are living, and the way the nature around them is influencing them. To study the nature of desire. Analyze desire. Every desire coming to them is like, no, no, no. Now I have to study it. What can this desire offer me? To what extent that desire is becoming my master? Am I the master of this desire or that desire is enslaving me to it? So, one of the greatest things one should learn is the elementals. How they are created. The nature of the elementals. And, the most important, how we can dis-energize the elementals and get rid of their influence. Which means, demolish that shell of ours to see the light and start from the beginning with the same material. Which means the mind, now a sober thinking, built up our paradise. Because it is with the same material that you are building a prison or a palace. Earth, water, wood, iron, cement, and many, many things with the same material you are building. Either a prison to imprison yourself in it, as I said, a shell hell, or you can build your palace to live in it. So, it is up to us. The materials are given freely by God. And we are responsible how we are using this material. Which is the mind, as pure thought, the mind as pure emotions, love. Everything is good if we know and make good use of everything. So, this is our way. And I said, we are on the same way because by so doing we develop in us certain qualities of our self. The self-consciousness, the self-superconsciousness, the exosomatosis, on the material plane. Yes. You learn by the Holy Archangels and you yourself, what is matter, becoming master of matter, you can materialize and dematerialize things. You can transmute things, matter to another kind of matter. Then you are on the same way, that yes, you are becoming master of matter. But to become master of matter outside, you should become first master of matter in your material body. Not to be the slave of the material body, but to be the master of the material body. So, is that way easy? At the beginning, no. But when you start, you develop in your personality a new quality which means habit, which is one of the expressions of the self-consciousness. You have to learn. And by this, which you call habit, things are made easier and easier. But you have to start. What is needed is sincerity with yourself and patience. Yes. Now we will make an exercise. Concentrate in your material body, from the toes to the head. Relax completely every muscle. Feel you are in your body. It's yours. It's granted to you by the holy archangels of the elements creating it. Feel you are in the feet. From the abdomen to the toes. Feel your feet. We said relaxed. Not tense muscles. Simply feel them. Now feel the abdomen, the chest, the hands, the head. Feel you are in the whole material body. Who are you who are able now to feel and live? Live means feeling in that material body. Which other intelligences, higher intelligences are constructing, building and keeping it in good order. Now, you, feeling the whole material body, being in the material body, you are a personality. Just recompose your personality now. As you are feeling desires, wishes, way of thinking, that's your personality. That's you. That entity now concentrating in the body and feeling the body. That's you. You have to study this personality of yours. The way you are feeling, your desires, your emotions, the reactions by that way of feeling. Now we enter in your subconsciousness. You join in his subconsciousness. What are the reactions of the impressions you get through the five senses in that personality of yours? What are these impressions causing your personality? Satisfaction? Dissatisfaction? Anger? Peace? Indifference? You have to get the habit of whatever comes to your attention through the five senses to check it. Start knowing its nature and what that can be to you. Now all impressions coming to us to our present personality can be classified into classes. The pleasure-giving impressions and experiences and the painful pain-giving experiences. Why? Why giving pleasure and or why giving pain? By so doing you will find out the quality of your personality. And again these two classes you are classifying the impressions are painful less or more painful much more painful desperately painful and so on. You cannot classify things to their right place. Pleasure. Yes, it gives a little pleasure more pleasure, much more pleasure it gives a great pleasure and so on. We classify it. Now by classifying things, the one side or the other we'll put over them a why. Just to find the influence of these experiences giving you. Have to find the degree of influence. Why this thing today is giving me pain and it didn't give me pain yesterday and maybe tomorrow it will give me pleasure. Why things that gave me pleasure in the past and satisfaction making me more energetic now are indifferent to me. Why? So there must be a burning why in front of you which requires an answer. You have to answer to yourself so that you'll know the reality. What is pain and what is pleasure? Both are illusions. And what is the reality? To find out who you are. Not to find out how you are influenced how you are vibrating according to the experiences. To find your God selfhood ego of yours its nature and tranquility. Yes, in reality what am I? Forget who you are because what you are is spirit, soul, ego, self. No male, no female. Who am I? Living now this moment in this material body of mine feeling it concentrating in it and how can I be able, in the same way I'm feeling in my material body develop my self-consciousness to feel consciously in my other bodies in my so-called psychic body neurotic body How can I control and master emotions and desires and influences given me through the five senses? How can I master and become the master of the mind? This is the way for everyone educated or non-educated to find the truth who he or she is and what he or she is and in the meantime live the life the absolute infinite intelligence decided to place him or place her now to get the lessons in life become tolerant patient Now, one of the skills we have to develop and gain is the use of the mind in visualization for making what we have seen what had happened to us is stored subconsciously in our so-called subconsciousness and we can bring it to the surface as a memory anytime we like we practice and get the skill by introspection but now bring to the surface of your consciousness a person with that person you had difficult moments maybe hating him or hating her or hating you that person both of you are human beings under the same force under the same experiences bring that person in front of you it's not difficult by visualizing this fellow don't bring it angry see that person happy and smiling breathe deeply and make your heart radiate a rosy light making your heart a rosy sun and the sun is radiating sending its rays everywhere see that face having that light of your heart enjoying that light of your heart that rosy light of your heart and smiling and mentally tell that fellow man or a woman that you love him or love her never mind how difficult moments you had with that person all that is human in reality the inner self of her or of him is God as you you apply to that God now not to the personality see that fellow happy smiling to you sending love to that person this doesn't mean that you'll continue conduct and start again quarreling because you are not better than what you were that person is not better than what he was it's human but now work from a higher level send your love to that person in this way balancing your accounts if you don't want that person to come in your way again or if you want that person to come in your way on much better terms now human beings are in need not of our love not of our complaints and hatred because complaints and hatred are very strong poisons poisoning even our material bodies yes, enough tomorrow all of you who will be here will deal with this subject of elementals enough ok Daskalos-Oct-12-1993-A-The-Spirit-of-Inner-Christianity Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is done in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation. And deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, in your omnipresence, as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. Bitte. Gott des Lebens, der Liebe und der Gnade. Als der Allgegenwrtige offenbarst du dich in dir selbst. Als die vollkommene Allmacht und Weisheit. Erleuchte unseren Geist, dass wir dich als die Wahrheit erkennen. Reinige unsere Herzen, dass wir dir und unseren Mitmenschen deine Liebe zurckstrahlen. Amen. In times which nobody can just calculate. Zu Zeiten, die kein Mensch kalkulieren kann. The human being has found himself living in caves. Men and women, holding a heavy club, to protect themselves from the wild beasts and the wild animals. Living in very very difficult times. Sie haben zu sehr schweren Zeiten gelebt. Continuously they had the earth tremors, the earthquakes. Und immer wieder gab es Erdbeben. Stones were rolling from the caves they were living, killing a good number of them. Und groe Steinbrocken sind runtergefallen auf die Hhlen, in denen sie wohnten, und haben viele von ihnen totgeschlagen. The atmosphere was very heavy, contaminated with smoke from the very many volcanoes. Die Atmosphre war kontaminiert von schweren Wolken, die aus den Vulkanen kamen. Cracks were appearing on the earth, on the planet. Risse wurden geformt in der Erde des Planeten. Emitting lava. Und lava strmte aus. It was not only the volcanoes. Es waren nicht nur Vulkane. For how long? Fr wie lange? For many many centuries. Fr viele viele Jahrhunderte. Now the surroundings surround the human beings. Und nun die Umgebungen, in denen die Menschen leben. Living in caves. In den Hhlen. In the suffocated atmosphere. In dieser erstickenden Atmosphre. Very huge serpentine beasts. Sind sehr groe Schlangengetiere. Dinosaurs. Dinosaurier. Brontosaurier. Brontosaurier. Flying huge beasts. Fliegende mchtige Ungetiere. So the life at that time was very very difficult. Und somit war das Leben zu dieser Zeit unheimlich schwer. Then man appeared on the planet. Dann kam der Mensch auf die Erde. Was is that? The beginning of the human race in life? War das der Anfang des menschlichen Geschlechtes? No. Nein. Because the human beings had lived for many many many many centuries. Die menschlichen Wesen hatten schon fr viele viele Jahrhunderte gelebt. In a place around the planet. In einem Ort rund um den Planeten. Many kilometers above the surface of the planet. Viele Kilometer von der Oberflche des Planeten entfernt. In a place the atmosphere was emerald vitality. In einem Ort wo die Atmosphre emerald grnes Leben beinhaltet. No matter what was happening on the planet. Es spielte berhaupt keine Rolle was mit dem Planeten geschah. Around the planet were many rings of clouds. Um den Planeten herum gibt es sehr viele Ringe von Wolken. Heavily loaded with water. Die sehr schwer beladen sind mit Wasser. Many deluges were on the planet. Deluges, cataclysm, water coming out. Viele sindfluten sind auf die Erde runter gekommen. Without influencing that etheric atmosphere. Ohne diese therische Atmosphre zu beeinflussen. Because that atmosphere was vibrating in different rate of vibration. Denn die Atmosphre hat mit unterschiedlichen Vibrationen vibriert. It is the paradise mentioned in your testament. Und es handelt sich um das Paradies von dem das alte Testament uns erzhlt. Of course those who can raise their self-consciousness to the highest levels. Und alle die ihr Selbstbewusstsein zu den hchsten Ebenen erhhen knnen. Of the self- superconsciousness. Zu ihrer berbewusstsein, Selbstberbewusstsein. In the eternal everlasting now. In dem ewigen immerwhrenden jetzt. Can see all that in the cosmic consciousness. Knnen alle diese Dinge sehen im kosmischen Bewusstsein. In the cosmic memory. In dem kosmischen Gedchtnis. In that atmosphere, the ethereal planet. In dieser Atmosphre hat der therische Planet. There were trees. Es gab Bume. Flowers. Es gab Blumen. Animals. Tiere. The human beings. Die menschlichen Wesen. But very different to what they are now. Aber sehr unterschiedlich von dem was sie heute sind. They didn't have a very solid body. Sie hatten nicht einen sehr festen Krper. They were not in need of killing one kind of life another to eat. Und sie hatten es nicht ntig einer den anderen umzubringen um sich zu ernhren. And breathing the emerald atmosphere was enough to feed them. Indem sie dieses emeraldgrne Licht, die Atmosphre, einatmeten, gengte es ihnen sich zu ernhren. So there was peace. Und es war Frieden. Until the last ring of water had fallen on the planet. Bis dass der letzte Ring dieses Wassers auf den Planeten gefallen ist. And everything had changed. Und dann hat sich alles verndert. We read in the Bible Wir lesen in der Bibel about the cardinal sin ber die Erbsnde as the Jews thought. So wie es die Juden gedacht haben. For me it is the divine plan in development. Und fr Daskalos ist es aber der gttliche Plan der Entwicklung. So everything had changed. Alles hat sich verndert. And human beings found themselves on the surface now of the material planet. Und die menschlichen Wesen fanden sich nun auf der Oberflche des materiellen Planeten. In a gross material body. In einem grob materiellen Krper. What does it write in the Bible? Und was steht darber in der Bibel? That by order of Allah, of God Das auf den Befehl Gottes The Archangel Michael Der Erzengel Michael The Lord of fire, heat and light Der Herr ber Feuer, Wrme, Hitze und Licht Holding in his hand a fiery sword Er hielt in seiner Hand ein feuriges Schwert Und er hat Adam und Eva aus dem Paradies getrieben. And it says that God dressed them with skin cloths. Und es steht weiter, dass Gott die Menschen mit Huten, mit Leder angezogen hat. That means made them human beings as they are today. Das heit aber, er hat sie zu den Menschen gemacht, die sie heute sind. Even then. Und sogar dann The human beings didn't have the material body you have today. Hatten die menschlichen Wesen nicht den Krper, den wir heute haben. Maybe a hand blocked in rocks, maybe cut off. Vielleicht hat sich ein Arm in den Steinen, in den Felsen verfangen und wurde abgeschnitten. It was growing again. Dieser Arm ist aber bald wieder nachgewachsen. Why? Warum? Because it was under the so-called etheric doppel. Weil der Arm unter diesem sogenannten etheric doppel war. Which cannot be mutilated. Und das etheric doppel kann nicht missgestaltet werden. Even now our etheric doppel cannot be mutilated. Und sogar heute kann unser etheric doppel nicht verunstaltet werden. The form, the mold in which the material body is built. Es ist die Modellform, in welcher unser materieller Krper gebaut wurde. Built by whom? Von wem gebaut? Of course we know by the holy archangels of the elements. Wir wissen, dass es durch die heiligen Erzengel der Elemente geschieht. And you have given that in many lessons in the past. Und das Koloss hat das in sehr vielen Lektionen in der Vergangenheit schon erlutert. How do we know it? Und wie wissen wir es? All through the centuries which have passed. Durch alle die vergangenen Jahrhunderte Many centuries have passed. Viele Jahrhunderte sind vorbeigegangen. Enlightened ones, human beings Haben erleuchtete Menschenwesen Wanted to see the truth, to find the truth. Sie wollten die Wahrheit herausfinden. What are we? Was sind wir? What's life? Was ist Leben? What is this world around us? Was ist die Welt rund um uns herum? And using the mind Und indem sie Mindgeist angewendet haben The mind vitality Die Mindgeist vitalitt They have unfolded in themselves, in their primitive selves Haben sie in sich selbst, in ihrem primitiven Selbst etwas entfaltet. Their divine powers Und das war ihre gttliche Kraft. They came in contact with holy archangels of the elements Sie kamen in Kontakt mit den heiligen Erzengeln der Elemente Where? Wo? In their bodies and everywhere. In ihren Krpern und berall anders. They have been taught the truth. Und ihnen wurde die Wahrheit offenbar. They have given the truth. Sie haben uns die Wahrheit gegeben. And we find it in all the scrolls Und wir finden sie in allen Schriften In India In India In Eastern Egypt In Israel und gypten In China In China Find them written on rocks In South America Wir finden es auf Felsen geschrieben in Sdamerika By the Aztecs, the Incas So at all times in all the places of the planet Were enlightened ones At all times Who said the same things Die die selben Sachen gesagt haben Yes, in different words, but the same meaning In unterschiedlichen Worten, aber mit dem selben Inhalt Later Spter Came the prophets in Israel Kamen die Propheten in Israel Who completed this knowledge Und sie haben diese Wissenschaft ergnzt By giving the Torah Und in der Torah In Old Egypt Im alten gypten The old Egyptian hierophants Die alten gyptischen hierophanten Had revealed all this truth Haben alle diese Wahrheiten enthllt And God The God man Joshua Being born Und Gott, der Gottesmann Jesus, der geboren wurde Had verified their findings Hat diese Findungen And have completed Beweilheitet und erfllt Have completed it Er hat sie erfllt Saying what he said on Sefer Yetzirach That means the creation Und er sagte ber die Schpfung The creation So, is that written? Steht das geschrieben? It was written, but much of it is lost Es war aufgeschrieben, aber vieles davon ging verloren And we find pieces in the New Testament Of what Joshua said Und wir finden aber immer noch Sachen Die Jesus im Neuen Testament Die Jesus gesagt hatte Now, what were the old enlightened ones? Was waren diese alten erleuchteten Menschen? And what was and is now the God man Joshua? Und was ist und bleibt Jesus, der Gottesmann? Is there any difference? Gibt es einen Unterschied? Great difference Ein riesigen Unterschied All those enlightened ones were men-gods Alle diese erleuchteten waren Menschen-gtter Which means Das heit From their human nature By reincarnations Reach their godhood Durch ihre menschliche Natur Durch die reinkarnationen Erreichen sie die gottheit That is not the same with Joshua Emanuel Und mit Jesus Emanuel war es nicht das selbe The Messiah Messiah Mit dem Messias Messias He was a perfect ray of the Logos Of the El Shaddai Er war ein perfekter Strahl des Logos des El Shaddai Humanized by immaculate conception Er wurde Mensch durch die unbeflegte Empfngnis Others also have been incarnated by immaculate conception Andere wurden auch empfangen durch diese unbeflegte Empfngnis Maria His mother as a human being Die Mutter von Jesus als ein menschliches Wesen Johannan the Baptist Johannes der Tufer Johannan the Evangelist Johannes der Evangelist You can find that in the New Testament, in the Gospels Ihr knnt das im Neuen Testament nachlesen, im Evangelium Now, what Joshua Emanuel said about the Cosmogony Or the Sefer Yetzirah Was hat Jesus Emanuel ber die Kosmologie gesagt Oder ber den El Shaddai He gave this information and lectures many times Er hat diese Informationen und diesen Unterricht vielfach gegeben Now I'll give you the exact teaching of Joshua Emanuel the Godman Und Aeschylus gibt uns jetzt den ganz genauen Unterricht von Jesus Emanuel dem Gottesmann Entering in the Essenes Synagogues Wie er in die Essener Synagogen eingetreten ist While he was preaching and teaching Wie er als er unterrichtete und predigte Asked by his healer disciples and the companion disciples Und er wurde von seinen heilenden Jngern und den anderen Jngern gefragt To explain them the Torah and the Sefer Yetzirah Ihnen die Torah und den Jirach zu erklren He had completed it Er hatte es vollfhlt Saying Er sagte No human being Kein menschliches Wesen Living Lebend As a body In einem Krper Flesh, bones and blood In Fleisch mit Knochen und Blut Living in his gross material body Menschen die in ihrem grobmateriellen Krper leben Or living in his so called psychical body Oder die in ihrem so genannten psychischen Krper leben As desires, emotions and weaknesses and thoughts Mit Wnschen, Schwchen und Fehlern Or living in his one nautical body Oder solche die in ihrem nauetischen Krper leben As thoughts Als Gedanken Cannot conceive and understand what is the absolute infinite beingness Knnen nicht erfahren und verstehen was die absolute unendliche Seinseit ist Not beingness Das absolute Sein ist So, he told his disciples Und er sagte zu seinen Jngern The only thing which can be known Das einzige das wir wissen knnen About this absolute infinite beingness Gott oder Allah ber dieses absolute unendliche Sein Gott oder Allah Is that it is He didn't say he It is in its self-sufficiency Ist, dass es ist Es ist in seiner Selbstgengsamkeit That means the first nature of God is selfhood Das heit die erste Natur Gottes ist die Selbstheit Absolute self-awareness Absolutes Selbstgewahrsein He said that in the absolute infinite beingness Er sagte in diesem absoluten unendlichen Sein Are beyond numbers beings Gibt es unzhlige Zahlen von Wesen Or similar Alle sind sich hnlich The same as God the Father Sie sind so wie Gott der Vater Though being similar Und trotzdem sie sich hneln Yet we could classify them in three classes Knnen wir sie in drei Klassen einteilen He gave these names in Greek and in Aramaic Er hat ihre Namen auf Griechisch und Aramaisch gegeben The first in Greek is Kyriotides Das erste in Griechisch ist Kyriotides Which means Dominion Das heit die Dominion The second is Throne Das zweite ist Throne And the third is what we call Archexousie Or Principalities Und das dritte sind die Prinzipalien No difference and no distinction between them Es gibt keinen Unterschied, keine unterschiedlichen Merkmale zwischen ihnen But when The absolute infinite beingness Aber als das absolute unendliche Sein Vibrated Its real pleasure of manifesting itself In itself, in its omnipresence Mit Schwingungen vibrierte um sich selbst In sich selbst auszudrcken In seiner Allgegenwart That class we call Principalities Diese Klasse nennen wir die Prinzipalien Most of them Die meisten davon Co-vibrated that real pleasure Die meisten davon haben mitgeschwungen in dieser Schaffensfreude This co- vibration Und dieses Mitschwingen Of the beings Der Wesen And the absolute infinite beingness Allaha Und des absoluten unendlichen Seins Allaha Caused the emanation from them of the mind Hat die Ausstrmung von Mind, Geist hervorgerufen The mind, life, light, vitality Mind, Geist, Leben, Licht, Vitalitt From that mind Von diesem Mind, Geist These holy beings Sind diese heiligen Wesen Classifying themselves in their seven archangelic orders Die sich selbst in die sieben erzenglischen Orten eingeteilt haben Started creating the universes Sie haben angefangen die Universen zu gestalten The worlds of existence Die Welten der Existenzen The seven heavens Die sieben Himmel Around the seven heavens in the absolute infinite beingness Gibt es nur sieben Himmel? No! Absoluten unendlichen Sein? Vielleicht gibt es Billionen von Himmeln Aber kein menschliches Wesen kann sie erfassen und verstehen Und wenn ein menschliches Wesen fortgeschritten ist in seinem Selbstbewusstsein Und es bittet die Erzengel ihm Auskunft zu geben ber die Himmel, die ber diesen sieben Himmeln sind Dann bleiben die ruhig So, this is not possible for a human being Und es ist unmglich fr ein menschliches Wesen Das in einem menschlichen Krper lebt Fleisch, Knochen und Blut Oder das in seinem psychischen Gefhlskrper lebt Mit Wnschen, Emotionen und Schwchen Oder eins, das in seinem neurotischen Krper lebt In dem Krper der Gedanken Kann es nicht erfassen Aber was hat Jesus Emanuel gesagt? Ihr seid nicht nur eure Krper Und wenn es euch gelingt Sogar eure Persnlichkeit selbst zu entwickeln Eure gttlichen Gaben Denn ihr seid Geist, Seelen, Ego, Wesen Das Ebenbild von Allacha In dem ihr dieses Selbstbewusstsein entfaltet In die hchsten Ebenen Dann seid ihr nicht mehr ein menschliches Wesen, ob schon ihr die menschliche Form habt Ihr werdet finden, dass es in euch Die Mglichkeit des Einstimmens mitgibt Einstimmen mit dem, was ihr wissen mchtet Und zu lernen Wir knnen wissen Und indem wir unser Selbstbewusstsein erhhen und entfalten Zu den Ebenen des Einsseins Gottes Das sich Einssein nennt Mit dem El Shaddai, dem Logos Dann werdet ihr wissen Ihr habt es nicht ntig zu sehen und zu lernen Aber ihr werdet das werden, was ihr sein wollt Das heit Dass wir alle Kinder Gottes sind Die Shne Gottes des Allmchtigen So you find That though you are living like all the other animals in a material body Flesh, blood and bones Say that short Und obwohl wir in einem materiellen Krper leben wie alle anderen Tiere mit Fleisch und Knochen Yet you find that you, the real you Dann finden wir trotzdem, dass unser wirkliches Ich Is an immortal God Ein unsterblicher Gott ist A spirit, soul, ego being Ein Geist, Seelen, Ego, Wesen Und jetzt in der Schpfung So What is God? Nobody can know What are God's characteristics and nature? We can know Was Gottes Charakteristiken und Natur sind, das knnen wir wissen That God is the life Dass Gott das Leben ist Manifested in what way? Dass sich selbst ausdrckt wie As life, light Als Leben, Licht But I say again, what you call light is not hot We see with our material eyes emanating from the sun only Aber das Kalos wiederholt, dass Licht nicht nur das ist, was wir mit unseren Augen erfassen knnen Through two little balls full of cotton Durch diese wssrigen zwei Kugeln That's also light, material light Es ist auch Licht, aber nicht wirkliches Licht But what is the unextinguishable light? Aber was ist nun dieses unauslschbare Licht? We call it mind, life, light, vitality Wir nennen es Mind, Geist, Lebens, Licht, Vitalitt What is light? That it's not only light, what we call light from the sun Es ist nicht nur das Licht, das wir von der Sonne kennen When you are in a very beautiful dream Wenn wir uns in einem wunderschnen Traum befinden Your eyes are closed Sind unsere Augen geschlossen The body is sleeping Der Krper schlft Yet you see colors Aber ihr seht trotzdem Farben Light Licht Flowers Blumen Everybody at least once had such experiences in the psychical world Und jeder Mensch hatte wenigstens einmal eine solche Erfahrung in der psychischen Welt gemacht With which light you are seeing Mit welchem Licht seht ihr da? So light is not only the ethereal vibrations from the sun Und somit ist Licht nicht nur die ethereische Schwingung, die von der Sonne kommt Because after all The light of the sun Denn nach allem ist das Sonnenlicht Is giving us nothing else than the colored surfaces from which it is reflected Es gibt uns nichts anderes als die Oberflche des Gegenstandes, den es widerspiegelt What more? Was ist mehr? Nothing more Nichts mehr What is giving us the so called psychical light? Und was uns das so genannte psychische Licht gibt Emotions Gefhle And pleasure Und Freude The great feeling Und ein Hhegefhl Which the material sun is not giving us Das uns die materielle Sonne nicht gibt And what you call the noetical light is giving us Und was das so genannte noetische Licht uns gibt Which is more bright Welches noch mehr leuchtet Give us much more Es gibt uns viel mehr What we see in the noetical light Was wir in dem noetischen Licht sehen We know what it is because in it there is the understanding Da wissen wir was wir sehen Denn dann haben wir das Verstndnis So the light in the other dimensions, in the other heavens Und so ist das Licht in den anderen Dimensionen In den anderen Himmeln Is giving us much more than this light emanating from the sun Und dieses Licht gibt uns viel viel mehr als das Licht das von der Sonne ausgeht I am a lucky one Das Kalos ist glcklich Who can live self-consciously and self-superconsciously Wer kann selbstbewusst und selbstberbewusst leben And in the noetical world Und in der noetischen Welt In the psychical world In der psychischen Welt As I am self- conscious in the material world Genauso wie er selbstbewusst in der materiellen Welt lebt Returning from the psychical or the noetical heaven Und wenn er zurckkommt aus dem psychischen oder noetischen Himmel Which is where? Wo sind die? Here Simply a world of different vibrations Es ist einzig eine Welt mit unterschiedlichen Schwingungen Opening my eyes Wenn er seine Augen auftut Even a summer day with full sunshine An einem wunderschnen Sommertag mit vollem Sonnenschein I am feeling I am coming in a dark place Dann hat er das Gefhl, dass er in eine dunkle Welt kommt There is no comparison between the light Es gibt keinen Vergleich mit dem Licht In the other heavens In den anderen Himmeln Und dem Licht der materiellen Sonne Or the light coming just from a lamp Oder mit dem Licht, das aus einer Lampe kommt I want to understand that light is different from what you think it is Er will, dass ihr versteht, dass Licht etwas ganz anderes ist, als was ihr denkt, ist Licht And now we come to what Joshua Emmanuel said to his disciple Hillel Und jetzt kommen wir zurck zu dem, was Jesus Emmanuel der Christus zu seinen heilenden Jngern gesagt hat The life light, the mind vitality Das Lebenslicht, Mind, Geist, Vitalitt Calling it luminosity, is that the word? Dass ihr Leuchtkraft nennt Is of seven different degrees or more Besteht aus sieben unterschiedlichen Graden oder mehr Of brightness Der Helligkeit Creating the seven heavens Sie erschaffen die sieben Himmel Composing all the worlds of the world of existence Expressing the real pleasure of God to manifest itself in itself Now what is the name of this world of existence? Die niedrigste ist der Name dieser Welt der Existenz The lowest is the gross material world Die niedrigste ist die grob materielle Welt The next is the ethereal counterpart of our planet Der nchste ist das etherische Gegenstck von unserem Planeten The second heaven Der zweite Himmel Which is in the planet, on the surface and many kilometers around the planet Er ist in dem Planeten, auf dem Planeten und viele Kilometer auerhalb des Planeten The third heaven is what we call the emotional heaven or the psychical plane Der dritte Himmel ist das was wir die Gefhlswelt nennen oder die psychische Ebene Now the material plane is the one third of the surface of the planet Und die materielle Ebene ist das ein Drittel der Oberflche der materiellen Welt The ethereal worlds are far bigger Die etherischen Welten sind viel viel grer And the so called third heaven or psychical world Und der so genannte dritte Himmel oder die psychische Welt Occupying the same space Nehmen den selben Platz ein With different sense of place Mit einem unterschiedlichen Sinn des Ortes According to the frequency of their vibrations Entsprechend der Frequenzen der Vibrationen Are 7 planes or 49 sub planes Gibt es 7 Ebenen mit total 49 Unterebenen Great world Eine groe Welt Hells or heavens Hllen oder Himmels Hells or paradises Hellen oder Paradiese Where is that? Wo sind die? In the planet In diesem Planeten Around the planet Many kilometers around the planet Und viele Kilometer um den Planeten herum But the psychical world of earth Is not touching any other psychical world of another planet Aber die psychische Welt dieser Erde Berhrt keine andere psychische Welt von anderen Planeten The fourth planet, the fourth plane Die vierte Ebene The fourth heaven Der vierte Himmel Is the counterpart of the psychical world Is das Gegenstck der psychischen Welt The fifth Der fnfte Is the noetical world Is die noetische Welt The world of mind, thoughts And everything But mind Where is this world? In the planet Around the planet Many, many kilometers around the planet Und viele, viele Kilometer rund um den Planeten Touching and joining the noetical worlds of other planets Und die berhren und verbinden sich mit den noetischen Welten anderer Planeten Of the solar system Des Sonnensystems And of other solar systems in our galaxy Und anderen Sonnensystemen in unseren Galaxien Which is the third double of that noetical planet Und was ist das therische Doppel von diesem noetischen Planeten? Or noetical heaven Oder von diesem noetischen Himmel? Because when you go there you will know Wenn ihr dahin gehen werdet, dann werdet ihr es wissen No human words can explain Keine menschlichen Worte knnen das erklren The splendor of that light and life there Die Herrlichkeit dieses Lichtes und des Lebens dort Somebody is asking, do I know? Yes, I do Jemand stellt die Frage, wei das Kalos das? Und er sagt, ja, ich wei es Aber er findet keine Worte es uns zu erklren The other, I said, five heavens Die anderen fnf Himmel? There are seven heavens of existence Er hat uns schon fnf Himmel gegeben, es gibt aber sieben What are the other two? Was sind die weiteren beiden? Was Jesus Emanuel der Christ gesagt hat Everything, every heaven, every word in the world of existence is dual Jedes Ding, jeder Ort in der Welt der Existenz ist zweifach The divine Das gttliche And the mundane Und das weltliche So this is the law in the world of existence Und das ist das Gesetz in der Welt der Existenz And this duality is in the oneness Und diese Zweifachheit gibt es in der Einheit So the other two heavens Und somit sind die anderen beiden Himmel The noetic And its counterpart Und sein Gegenstck Are divine Sie sind gttlich So though having these five heavens Und wir haben nun diese fnf Himmel The law of change, continuous change Das Gesetz des Wechsels, des immerwhrenden Wechsels Giving us the sense of time as past, present and future Gibt uns den Sinn fr die Zeit Als Vergangenheit, Gegenwart und Zukunft Entering in the noetic plane Indem wir in die noetische Ebene eintreten We enter in what I call the oneness Indem wir in das, was das Kalos, die Einheit eintreten The divine plane Die gttliche Ebene Daskalos-Oct-12-1993-B-The-Spirit-of-Inner-Christianity These two divine planes, heavens, you cannot find in it any change. There you can see the total wisdom of God, as laws, principles, ideas, causes. Through all that, all forms are reflected, entering in the other worlds or heavens. Now, studying the forms, nothing can exist unless it has a form, nothing in the material world, nothing in the ethereal, nothing in the psychic, nothing in the noetical, unless it has a form. Entering in the divine plan, in the total wisdom and the all-mightiness, entering in what we call the circle of existence and possibilities of that kind. You can find this circle of existence and all-mightiness and total wisdom even in the material plane. Studying the life of a worm, a fly, a butterfly, an animal, a tree, you see that nothing can escape from the all-mightiness of the holy archangels, controlling that phenomenon of life. So, we find the divine also in the mundane. And one who studies all these things will find this law in all the worlds, in all the heavens. Nothing is beyond the all-mightiness of Allah and His holy archangels. What's beyond? Those are seven heavens. But in God, beingness, are many, many, many heavens. They asked Joshua, Emmanuel, to speak to them. What did he reply? Did you understand the mundane and want to know more about the divine? He said, in your testament. With what language he could tell them? Greek or Aramaic? The divine things. Impossible. But what he has promised them, calling all these seven heavens, his father's mansion, same house. In the house of my father there are many mansions. In the house of my father there are many mansions. And I go to prepare a place for you. And I go to prepare a place for you. Place. A place. So, only in these seven heavens there is the sense of place. And only in these seven heavens there is the sense of place. Beyond that there is no sense of place. Beyond that there is no sense of place. What is it? What can it be? What can it be? So we can know only the house of our father with its many mansions. So we can know only the house of our father with its many mansions. But we are not allowed to know much outside of this house. What gives us the sense of place? You find yourself in a certain place. You know. You might call it environment. Houses. Trees. Legs. Mountains. People. You are living in that place and you enter another place. Again, a place. Different. Different trees. Hills, lakes, water. Different people. So you can be in any place. And get presentations. Creating them in your representations. The kind of understanding. Knowing. This is how we know things in the worlds of existence. Developing now the self- consciousness to higher levels. What does it mean self-superconsciousness? Be at the same time in many places. But not only in one. Yet being present there in all the places. That means extension of the comprehension of the presentation. This is what you can gain by the self-superconsciousness. What is the divine now? Selfhood. Comparing you and the self-superconsciousness. Which means receiving presentations, making them in your selfhood. Representations. Something which is there. Representations. What is there? You make them. You are all self. It's marvelous. But human. Not divine. What is stepping out of the noetical plane? It's not learning anymore. It's not conceiving anymore. It's not understanding anymore. It's being. I know it. What it gives you? A pleasure and splendor beyond words. Is that the paradise? No. Because the paradise is the opposite of the hell. And it is in the words of the opposites. In the words of the duality. It is in the words of existence. What I say now is something beyond the words of the duality. It is in the words of the oneness. You are in Allah. What is the difference with us now? God is in every one of us. But are we in God? No. Because you are in the world of separateness. Your body, flesh, blood and bones. You have to forget that. You have just to know that you are not matter. You are not even the substance. The sexual body. Or the super substance. Or the mind. No coming again to Jesus Emmanuel the Christ. In cosmogony. In cosmos. So the holy archangels of the elements. Vibrating to the total wisdom and the almightyness. Using the mind vitality. Super substance. Are creating the heavens, all the heavens. And we said the life light. They are using. It is a luminosity of seven kinds of brightness. Creating what? The sensitivity. Of the rocks. The sensibility. Of the animals. The sub-consciousness of human beings. The inner consciousness. The instinct of the animals. These are all forms of life. The self-consciousness of the human beings. Self-super-consciousness of the human beings. These are ways of manifesting the self. Are we our consciousness? No. Our consciousnesses. Instinctive. Sub-conscious. The so-called self-awareness. Consciousness. The super-consciousness. Are our expressions. In the various heavens. But what did Jesus Emmanuel Christ said? The kingdom of the heavens is in your spirit, ego, self being. So. We are more than our expressions. Because we are spirit, soul, ego being. Not confined in bodies. In places. Entangled with circumstances. But we are more. Much more. We can enter in the oneness of God. In our self-realization. In our self-realization. As Joshua used to tell the Jews. The kingdom of the heavens which is in our nature. As spirit, soul, ego being. Immortal. Everlasting. Why don't we remember what we have been? Because that handful of earth in our brains is heavy. When we get rid of it. Then we remember. How get rid of it? After the death of our body to decay and this material brain to decay also? No. Even having that material brain. The material body, flesh, blood and bones. Finding who you are as a self being. We can develop our self-consciousness. How? God gave us the mind vitality. The mind light. The mind life. Our daily bread. Which we must use. To unfold our selfhood. And of course enter in the divine selfhood. Joshua Emmanuel the God man. Gave, he went to the Jews, to the Israelites and to everybody. Be ye perfect. As perfect as your divine father. Which means? We can be. Because he was perfect as his heavenly father. Now, what was Joshua's prayer? Which he had composed when he was 16 years of age. It is not as it is today, the Lord's Prayer. He had composed it in the Greek language and the Aramaic language. Which was the language he was using in his home life. Because the Essenes were Greek speaking Israelites. And also the Aramaic language. What she said? Our father. Who are in the heavens. Your name is holy. Everywhere. And your kingdom is. In the heavens. And on earth. And your will. Is done in the heavens. So it is done on earth also. That's what she said. And she said more. Not even a leaf from a tree. Is falling down from the branch of the tree. Unless it is the will of God. And when Pilate told him. Asking him what is the truth. He did not reply. He said, don't you know that I can crucify you or set you free. I have that power of doing it. What did she reply? You have nothing and no authority on me or on anybody unless it is given you from above. Unless it is the will of the father. Now you have it in your mind now. That the will of God is always done. It is stupid to be against the will of God. We have to admit whatever it comes to us. Because what comes to us. Is the outcome of our own thoughts and actions. God has given us the mind to work. Understand. And live in the proper life. As God has given the air. And everybody is breathing and living. He has given to everybody the mind vitality. The mind life. And the mind light. As understanding. Do we need help? If we need help, who will ask you? Ask and it will be given to you. Seek the truth and you will find it. Open. Knock on the gates of the heavens and it will be opened to you. So there is no excuse. What do I mean to say? Life is good. Unless it was good, God wouldn't give it to us as human beings. But the life of each one of us as we make it. But the life of each one of us as we make it. Is difficult. And he said. On the material plane, on earth. In this world. You will have many afflictions. But cheer up. I have won over the difficulties of the world. Which means. You can do it. So we follow his instructions. We follow his instructions. And correct the way of living. Correct the way we are making life and we are living. We are given the mind to think. To use it. And for a human being. Who can use the mind in thinking. Reasoning. And who is creating through the mind. Vitality as energy. Angel. Human elementals. Instead of human demons. He should live happy. A happy life. So we should not blame God. Or blame others. Blame ourselves. No. Just make good use of the mind. And we can get out of the mud we have created. So. God the father. The holy archangel. The lord of the elements. Has given us a human body. From the human point of view. It is perfect. Joshua Manuel is calling our body the temple of God. By right thinking and by introspection. We can come to the conclusion. That these great beings, the archangels. Unceasingly. Are working sustaining our bodies. So that we as present the personality self. Live in it. God the father. Is giving us the eternal life. The mind. Vitality. Light. To use it. As thoughts. He is giving us also. That mind. Substance. To express ourselves as. Gentle feelings. Not getting angry. Shading. Fighting. Attacking other people. And in making the emotions. Our weaknesses. Shading. That means creating for us. A shell. By creating. Human demons. Just to compose our personality self. So could realize. That we are not that time and place. Sinful self. But that we are the spirit. Soul ego self. God. An offspring of God. So the duty of every. Seeker or researcher of the truth. Is to study the way. He or she is living. And by reasoning. Make corrections. Of course one should ask. The help and the enlightenment. Of the father. He is in every one of us. And she's expecting that we should be. One with him. Enter in his oneness. What do we find there? Love. Life. Light. Happiness. You cannot find happiness in the material world. And nothing material. And no human being around us. Can give us happiness. Things and people can give us. From time to time. Kind of satisfaction. To fit in. Nothing. So happiness. Is when we find. God in our being self. What I call self realization. Through introspection. Right meditation. Visualization. Visualization means seeing. Through another. Kind of light. Visualization means seeing with another light. Which is a program. Do you want to give an exercise now? We have to go. Daskalos-Sep-14-1992-A-Subconsciousness Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, as your total wisdom and your almightyness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. The lesson today will be of great importance. Because it will state what do we believe as seekers of the truth, and also the proof that what we believe is right. That's why it is most important. What we'll hear today, you cannot find it in books. Because those who have known these things, could not just present things in words or in books. And I confess that what I try to do now, it's something very daring to do. But I will try, though I believe I will be most awkward in expressing everything I know in words. Not only in English, in any language. What I will say is out of personal experiences. Now, we said what we know about what we call the absolute reality. What's reality? About the absolute infinite beingness. About God, is that God is the everlasting life. So, the absolute life. But can one know what is an ocean by analyzing and seeing a drop of water from the ocean? In quality, yes, but in quantity, no. Anyhow, we can know something after we raise our self-consciousness to higher and higher levels of self-consciousness to understand what we are in reality. And then we understand what is the absolute reality. Absolute reality. Yes, but, now, suppose somebody will ask you, do you know what is the sun? Of course you say, I know what is the sun. Just all of fire in the sky, giving us light, heat, during the winter we can sit out and get warm. And, of course, I'll ask you, do you really know what is the sun? You say, of course I know what is the sun. Because I can sit in the sunshine and get warm. I can see on the sky, not for a long time, because that will burn my eyes. Are you sure you know what is the sun? Just billions of times bigger than the planet Earth. If we say we know what is the sun, we will be liars. But if we say we don't know what is the sun, again we will be liars. Because we know something about the sun in the same way. If we say that we do know what is God, we will be liars. But if we say we don't know what is God, again we will be liars. Can we just engage our material brains, a handful, I said, of earth, of soil, with what is the absolute infinite beingness? That's very dangerous. It's as dangerous to the eyes looking at the sun. It is likewise very dangerous to the human intelligence to engage itself with this absolute reality. To the human intelligence. Not to us. Because we are not only an expression as human beings showing a kind of human intelligence. I said we should know these things after raising up our consciousness. We all know that we just express a kind of consciousness. Subconsciously though, if we raise that kind of our consciousness to higher and higher and higher levels, to what I say super self- consciousness, then we know that it's not anymore any danger in knowing. But are we that time really human beings or we are something more? Are we the animals just moving about with a material body not very different from the bodies of all the other animals around us? Of course we are different. We are gods. And we can just know by expanding our selfhood to what I say self-superconsciousness, to know what? What we really are. Because we are not going to become anything we are not now. So we have double nature now. Our human petty nature. The shadow of our self and our real self. What is our real self? First of all, our real self, the self of every one of us, is a spirit, ego being, self-conscious ego being. What are we? Even as gods. A ray of our self. Not the whole of our self, because our self is all the time in attunement with the absolute infinite reality. With the absolute infinite selfhood. But even that ray is our self. It's that great self. No need to know what's the other self. I know what's a drop of water from the other self. But shall we see things as quantity? No. Just seeing things less, more and still more is by comparison. Comparison that's in the law of the world of separateness. We enter now in the world of the great truth. There is not anything as less or more, big or small. It is what is the reality. So we, even that ray of that self of ours, always in attunement with the infinite selfhood, we are not less than our real self, that spirit, ego being. We are that, and that is we. Now we have just to reach to the so-called self-realization. How? Just seeing what the absolute infinite beingness is doing, and we do the same. Exactly. That's what we have to do. Now, we say that each one of us is a divine ray of our spirit, ego-self, incarnated and humanized. How? We can study that. Observation, meditation, self-realization. Studying the petty self of our personality, which is nothing more than the shadow of that self of ours. We can study that. Who is studying it? Both. And our human material self having in it our real nature. They said yesterday that we, human beings, living even in a form, material form, not different in constitution by the other animals, yet we are gods. So we have double nature. We have, just by introspection, find it out. Did anybody before us, through all those centuries we call the past, have found that great truth out? Many. And they have just expressed that truth, again I say, most awkwardly, in a human way, as I am doing now. Most awkwardly. How can one express what's light? Unless we'll take you and tell you, see the light, and now you know what's the light. Otherwise, how you would know what's the light? Without seeing it. I am telling you that many, many in the past, have reached that level of self-super-consciousness to make this self-realization. All others? In the past, in the past centuries? Now? Now, living on the planet, everywhere, the material plane, in any nation, civilized or not, what are they? Concentrated on the shadow of themselves, which is their personality. Making the mistake, the expressions of this time and place self, to think they are that, and live just only one step above all the other animals. Fortunately, sometimes behaving like wild beasts, killing. You can find this in all the countries of the world today. You could find it in all the countries of the world at all times in the past. Now, great ones, amongst us, maybe they have been sent on this mission, by the infinite beingness, to guide their brothers away from the darkness and the illusion to find themselves, have come on the planet. Until, the god-man directly from the locus, the locus came down to show us the way. Which way? Not necessarily of returning back home, but of living a better life. Until, we return back home. Where? It's not a matter of place. To return back to our real nature. Our divine nature. Because I said, we are gods. When the petty shadow itself of the personality today will cast away from it, just, I'll call them, those elementals composing the personality, and reach the knowledge, who is that real self behind it, this is just the great, the great achievement. To find who we are and later what we are. Reaching our inner nature. Is it necessary just to reach to that, to leave our material body, the psychical and the neurotical body? Is it necessary? No! That's not the aim of just throwing away the material body. Because our material body, our psychical body, and our neurotical body, the one made of matter, the other made of substance, and the other made of purer substance, are nothing more but the shapes of our real human form in God. So our human form is what I call our spirit body, which is immortal, it lives its own life with us, eternal, incorruptible. So, on reaching back to our nature, is it necessary to cut away the human form, which is now our spirit body, our soul. Many times we hear about the soul, but who came just to describe to you what is the soul? What are you as a soul? This is the point. So we are not to just throw away our human form. But we can clean our bodies, our cross-material body, our what I call the psychical body, by knowing what is the psychical body, by using now our etheric double of our material body, becoming to us now a reality, by now knowing the existence of our so-called noetical body, freeing the mind from serving the desires and the emotions. That means by cleaning these bodies in such a way to reflect the light of our spirit body. And then our ego, present-day self, will just assimilate all that to the real spirit body, which is our soul, our human purified existence. Existence. Now it's a different thing between existence and beingness. Existence is something in time and place-space. But beingness means in the eternal now, in the eternal present. So you have just to study all these states of consciousness and self-consciousness. Now, though I know we are in very deep waters, I think you can understand much. What's consciousness? We said yesterday that everything on the material plane is living. The sun, the rocks, the metals, the crystals. Everything is living. But living means expressing a kind of existence at the beginning and for the human beings a selfhood. And we said yesterday that the mineral kingdom has got, I call, sensitiveness. Sensibility. The vegetable kingdom has a kind of, again, more developed sensitivity and life. The animal kingdom is showing what I call instinctive subconsciousness. The human being is expressing a kind of subconsciousness calling it waking consciousness. We have to study this. Why we call it waking consciousness? Well, it is subconsciousness. Now, psychology tries just tracing in darkness to find out a solution for that. For us, it's known. Studying what I call the subconsciousness, the subconscious mind. Then, finding out who is this thing here behind all that. What are we, even as human beings, full of mistakes, errors, weaknesses, stupidities? What are we behind that? By concentration and introspection, we find our way out from this darkness. What we find? That our personality composed of those elementals, of our impressions, likings and dislikings, and thoughts. These elementals are composing the present, the personality. We make the terrible mistake to think that it's our self. Now, by introspection, studying things, we start to find out, yes, now, who am I? Thinking behind it. Not being influenced by the time and place, impressions. Studying the nature of my so-called desires, thoughts. Becoming master of it. Then we start tracing our self to know who we are. Who we are, not what we are. Who we are? Yes. A self-consciousness in its bodies. A god in exile. That's the great truth. A god imprisoned in his bodies, which he has been imprisoned in them to purify them, to make them good enough just to reflect itself in the right way. And then, get free of those bodies and enter and express himself now as his spirit body, which is just the human form. We are not going to leave away our human form. We have dressed ourselves with our human forms in the eternal past. Why did we enter in the human form unless it was within us all the time in a latent state of beingness, coming out to the world of existence? It's a very difficult thing to trace. I'm trying to trace it now in this incarnation. That's why I told you I express all these great truths most awkwardly, not knowing everything. Now, to find ourselves. It's discouraging. Somebody will say, to find what I am. Not something more to what I am. Of course you find much, much more. You are considering yourself an animal living in a material body. Because you'll find out what we are in the bodies. What we are later will find our true nature as spirit, ego, self. In the absolute, infinite selfhood. Then we understand and respect what is self. And what self is not what you think it is. Just a name, male or female, desires, weaknesses, impressions, or these are shadows in time and place. So important to our personality now. Yes, so important. Yet, without having a real value to our real self as spirit, ego, source. That's the great truth. So, we believe that. And you have a proof about that. What is the truth? And the proof about all that. Because we can do what our brethren, the holy archangels are doing in the universes, all the universes. Now a man who reaches that level of self super-consciousness can live self super-consciously not only the material plane but in the psychical plane be an invisible helper. In the noetical plane again being an invisible helper. And even beyond that the noetic planes. So, then that fellow knows what are the words of existence and what is the absolute infinite beingness as the reality behind them. Now he realizes what is in the absolute infinite beingness the self-sufficiency and what is in the absolute infinite beingness as the holy archangels, the mortal beings, his brethren, the real pleasure of expressing, manifesting themselves where? In the absolute infinite beingness. In the omnipresence of the absolute infinite selfhood. And what he finds out more? That he also as a spirit solico being has this self-sufficiency. Yet he expresses the real pleasure of manifestation. In which way? Some are coming down to be enchanted by matter and by the mind substances super substance enchanted. The same way a fellow is drinking wine and becomes drunk. Most of the people like that. And there are some who came down let us say that down with a mission. To be beginning they didn't know what was that mission until during many many many incarnations they found it out. Not just to please create and please a time and place personality enchanted by what is material and personal but coming down self-aware of who they are to serve their fellow men. A very very difficult task indeed. Very difficult. Even for God. So we have just these two expressions of those rays just expanding from the source to be incarnated and humanized. That's a proof. We are humanized. We are incarnated. We are human beings. We can study and know not only what our bodies are we can do that by using the mind and thought. But now check our behavior know our personality and study it. Study our expressions the reactions from the material plane to whom? To that self of ours which in nature is God but now is under the influence of the words of darkness of ignorance and of the idea of death. Being a human being being a present-day personality a man or a woman. But now studying we find out what? That is not for a long time. Of course it is for certain number of years expressing a shadow self a present-day personality liking and disliking being pleased or displeased feel what you call pain or joy. All these are vanities who was vanities and that's good it is so that they don't last for long. No pain lasts forever and no human joy likewise. That's very good because if that would happen then it will make those erased from our spirit ego being being misled in the world of shadows and darkness. No. Many of you are not ready to receive this great truth being so much in love with your material self but after all you won't have it forever a material body which is changing every day every hour every moment because this cross-material world is under what I call continuous change nothing remains everything is changing we are growing all living beings are growing and then passing over everything on this material world you have to study in the course of existence has a beginning and an end then you have to find out our real self who doesn't have a beginning and an end but is what I call the everlasting life we are the everlasting life but who? Mary? George? John? Not them now what is our Christian religion teaching us? I don't mean the Cardinals the Bishops and the Archbishops and the Patriarchs they don't know what they say Joshua Emmanuel the Christ our most beloved one it's in the Bible you can find it and trace it that's all that so we have a proof having the experiences of the God-man which we can have also and reach to the right knowledge about things and to the conviction that we are on the right way towards the truth now let us come a bit lower what the Archangels the Holy Archangels are doing what is common between us and our brethren the Holy Archangels the Archangels expressing their Archangelic selfhood self-awareness according to its nature and cooperating together in a most perfect way they are using the super- substance of the mind formless having in it the principles the ideas the causes the laws weaving with them the words of forms how? using the mind meditating as if weaving out the laws and the causes into the words of the forms in this way constructing the words of existence they work with what I say now time as present past and future these things are developing and give the sense of time going on they have the power being almighty to materialize the mind into the universes to all material forms now in the universes and in the cross-material universal around us every kind of phenomenon of life having a material body marvelous work and working in what we call the sense of time working with what I said yesterday the circle of possibilities of each kind of phenomenon of life it's a marvelous work so they are working with the mind with the laws the principles in what we say time and the course of things which are hot the locus the locus is the infinite beingness in manifestation and Joshua Emmanuel the Christ feeling himself being the locus he said I am the way the course of things I am the way the truth and life great truth in it which we have to find it out so what are the holy archangels doing just being in attunement with the locus and definitely with the total wisdom of the infinite beingness and their total wisdom they are similar being in oneness in attunement with the lord to use the mind and we said the mind yesterday that soon this immortal beings and the absolute infinite absolute beingness expresses when always the real pleasure of manifestation the mind emanates from them so they are using the mind and we said in a lesson that the mind is super substance formless substance substance matter the ethereal world and cross matter cross matter is solid mind nothing is outside the mind now let us see how this holy brethren of ours are working they create in themselves and in the absolute beingness the sense of space something incomprehensible to us what space boundless space to work in it work with the omnipresence in space of the absolute reality of the absolute selfhood so meditating working on the principles on the ideas and causes they manifest the forms billions and billions of forms to be materialized all phenomena of life are materialized in the material plane but there are also other phenomena of life in the psychical plane in the ethereal plane in the nautical plane one raising his self-consciousness to those levels not only he can see them enjoy them in the same way he can enjoy nature here around him forest sea and everything can enjoy himself what his holy brethren are creating in the other heavens worlds of different dimensions and just there i think he can just understand better how they work because he comes in those worlds in contact with them in self-conscious contact with them what he finds out that they are just materializing the mind in all its states and frequencies of vibration of existence can the human being do that definitely being god he can do it is he doing it now yes subconsciously subconsciously a human being any human being an aboriginal or highly civilized human being is just doing it subconsciously by creating what we say elementals which he cannot see with his material eyes but he's under their pressure sometimes they crush him psychology calls them fixed ideas but you can see them clairvoyantly christ called them spirit meaningless and mute but you can find that in the new testament and what these elementals can do today try the human being insane to the mental hospitals in the old they can throw himself down and you have all those phenomena of epilepsy most of them are not pathological you have to study all these cases so what's written in the new testament is not just lazy tales they are realities which we can investigate and see them even now as possessions not that so a human being every hour every day every moment is creating these elementals by using subconsciously the super substance of the mind which giving it a form which he doesn't see which he materializes but they are visible to a clairvoyant if he's not giving them himself a form by desiring having something a jewel or something around him they get their form sometimes very hideous very just terrifying forms especially when these elementals are created by passions hatred envy jealousy just the feeling of attacking and man is responsible for her he either creates or revitalizing from the group elementals so instead of a human being man or a woman living in this society in any place being always under the influence of these elementals his own personality because the sum total of these elementals are composing a man's personality expressed as the personal egoism so instead of just all the time being under this influence of these elementals feeling unhappy unsatisfied miserable it's better to study their nature find out who he is and what he can do disenergize them control them don't you think that this is after all a great great success instead of all the time being slave of quote unquote uncircumstances I will call it slave of the elementals he is creating or revitalizing or he is absorbing created or revitalized by others just vibrating on the same frequency of vibrations of these elementals which gives to him the responsibility we said in certain lessons though we are in an ocean now a psychical ocean around the planet in the planet of this group elementals theft adultery homosexuality lust drinking gambling so many so many so many group elementals we are in this ocean then we are responsible if we vibrate according to their vibration and throw them like six like no good man can be influenced by what we call evil elementals though a wicked person can be influenced sometimes by what we call the love elementals or the good elementals because everybody can find himself sometimes feeling being good so drawing good elementals Daskalos-Sep-14-1992-B-Subconsciousness Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. I had before some days a question by a German, well, well educated, having even the title of a doctor, philosophy. He was talking to me and he said, he said, really, he's got Christian, Christianity, I don't like it. I was born, he says, as a Protestant. My father was a Protestant. My mother was Catholic. Then I went to the Catholic religion again, but I am detested. I have kicked away all these kinds of religion. And really the word Christian, and Christianity, and Christ is making me sick. He started laughing. I said, look here, you don't like it, and you like to find a way. Well, I told him, don't call yourself a Christian and be one. He said, be one? Yes. What does it mean, be one? Love your enemies. Love those who love you. Love your neighbor. Do you agree to that? He said, yes. And then you are a Christian. What do you think that Christ really came to teach you? If you don't like the system, the dogma, and of course the behavior of the priests, that's a different matter. Don't call yourself a Christian and be one. There is no other way. The way of the heart, purifying the heart and using the mind in the reasonable and logical way. There is no other way. Which means that we must see what the absolute beingness God gave us. Life. The right to breathe, to eat, and live in our material body. Give these substances to the archangels to build our material body. That's good. But still better it is to use the mind. A super substance. Substance and ether and everything. To make our life comfortable on the planet and the life of all around us comfortable. By loving people. Understanding people. Not allowing the devil of egoism in us to torture other people and at the end we are torturing ourselves. Nobody can torture another man and not torture himself in the same way. So, let us not call ourselves Christians because I'm telling you, in other religions, in Buddhism, in Brankheim, among the Muslims, there are people who are using these powers of the mind as reasoning and loving, who will find their way. So it is not only the words. It is the actions and the disposition that really counts. When asked by some disciples, Christ, that certain people are doing that and they are doing that and that, shall we stop? He said, no. Those who are not against us are with us. And I have many, many sheep who do not belong to this herd I call mine. That's clear. Joshua said that in the Bible. So, we should not think fanatically as Christians that nobody can be saved if he's not baptized with a Christian name and is called a Christian. We should not go to the other side of fanaticism. I had the visit before two years of a Hindu, good yogi, very good yogi, who gained psychical powers, that fellow. He was a doctor of philosophy teaching in the University of Delhi. He came without just saying who he was. He entered the door, came in my room, I was sitting, looking at me. Of course, he was dressed like a European. Nobody could understand. He was well shaved, with nothing to understand that he's a Hindu, except the color. But anyhow, the color of the Hindus have many symbols like that and others. He came, sat there. Of course, I had a lady in my house from Greece. I have asked her, would you please prepare two cups of coffee for both of us? She said, yes. She went and prepared them and came with it, putting it on the table there. Without saying any word, this fellow, with the power of his thought and using what is called telekinesis, he got the little plate with the cup of coffee, brought it to him, looking at me as if he had impressed me. I started smiling. Of course, I knew who he was without any introduction. He told me with his thought. Then he finished it. I got it from his hands from far away, brought it back and put it in place. He was looking at me just in wonder. I said, why you have done that? You have done nothing. That's nothing. Just with training, just to project, I said, your etheric double and with visualization you can do it. What do you think you have done? He didn't waste the time at all. Instead of replying, he saw me like that and he put me the question in Sanskrit. What's the truth? I started laughing. I said, me, you, God, everything is the truth. The manifestation I told him, just in Sanskrit, of the total wisdom and the real pleasure of God. He said, yes, this is what I found out. He said, what do you want? I've read the Bible from the beginning to the end. Yes? There is everything good. I like it. It's very good. But there is something really I didn't like at all. What was it? I told him. The Bible says that Christ said nobody can go to the Father and nobody can be saved except through me. True. I told him. What about us, he said, who are not Christians? Who told you you are not a Christian? Do you think you are not? I said, no. I'm a Brahmin. I started laughing. Look here. You said you read the Bible. Well, did you read, I said, St. John? Only the first, I said, sentences about the locus and Joshua is the locus. What does it say? It says in him is life and the life is the light of men, which means the self-consciousness of every human being. And Christians believe that he is the Lamb of God who raised the sins of the world. Who told you that that principle, don't call him Joshua the Christ, call him principle of love, of understanding, of the mind, of the self-consciousness, is not in you. So, through your self-consciousness, you will go, I said, to his salvation. He said, no. He said, as you put it, I accept it. I said, it's not Christians only who are baptized belonging to one dogma or the other dogma by a priest presenting his hand to get paid. I said, it's very different. Yes, it is through him, the principle of love and understanding. That's Christianity. I'm telling you, most people are good Christians without calling them so, and without knowing it. And there are many stupid people calling themselves Christians that they may slap you if you tell them they are not Christians, who are not at all Christians, hating the others, fighting the others, and kneeling before a satanic idol called personal egoism. Now, in our order of the research of the truth, the first duty, I'm just advising people, is to annihilate completely or kill the personal egoism and clean the heart from everything which is hostile to human beings. There is only one gate to the heavens, the heart. Joshua gave the Beatitudes. He gave a code of behavior in these Beatitudes. But the best is the one saying, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Only through the heart one can see God. So, before starting anything else to do, and claiming to have the right to spiritual development, the heart should be cleaned. There should never be in your heart any feeling, even as complained against any other human being, because under the roots of the truth of complaining is the serpent of hatred, sleeping. Don't wake it up. So, this is the discipline of the heart. How can we do that? Yes, that's the way. By starting using the mind and the brain as reasonable thought and as observation, checking your emotions, checking your desires, checking your dispositions in life, your purposes in life, just checking what you do in the society or around you, at home, in the office, in the street, everywhere. This is using the mind now and observation and reasoning, free from the influences of a personal egoism, all the time intervening, just to find out what is desire, what is thought, what can I do with them, what I was doing until now with them, being their slave, the slave of certain desires, the slave of certain thoughts, as beliefs, fanaticism, which leads to what? To obstinacy. So one has to study things all around and within. And really, cleaning should be inside. Then we should start knowing the nature of the mind, a super substance, substance, ether, and substance, and start now creating good elementals, constructing elementals, and learning how to disenergize elementals, casting them to the cosmic consciousness of the planet, freeing ourselves from their influence and all the others from their influence. So it needs training and sincerity with yourself, how to do it. So this is the way back where? To the truth. Which truth? What you are and why, what for? To save yourself from the troubles, to enjoy life, to understand what is life. Life is good, instead of having life as an intolerable burden on your shoulders. Because if I ask 100 people, 100 persons, are you now satisfied of your life? Are you satisfied of life? How many do you think they say they are? Why should not all be satisfied of living, being themselves the life? Why should they be influenced by the surroundings, which they and the others have created, causing pain, misery, and agony, and a modern word now, angst. Is that what you call it? That's a new invention now. And you have it in all the languages of the world. Angos. It is Greek word. Just a new invention for masochism. Yes. Now, we should get rid of it by right thinking and sincerity with ourselves. Now, there's another point you have to note. You are not just to go to the other way or become a real masochist, avoiding to be a masochist. Which means, oh, what am I? A sinner. A lost one. That's stupid. Don't criticize yourself even. Don't criticize others, and don't criticize yourself. Study, understand the true state of things, and get rid of them. Don't go against yourself. That's stupid. And believe me, the ego is not having other way to torture you. We'll use that. Repentance. I don't understand this word. Instead of repentance, I would say real understanding. What is not real understanding? A kind of repentance, with a better word now, instead of having masochistic tendencies in it. So, knowing things, freeing yourself from these tortures, and pain, and agony, is what it should be. And not start accusing either others or yourself. So, what is the aim of everybody, not only the seekers of the truth, is to get advantage of the holy, divine gift of the mind, and use it as reasonable thought. I say again, the poorest man in money, and in material things, he's very, very rich. By using his real treasures, thinking, the mind, and thanks God, he gave to every human being this right of using the mind. So there is no excuse. And I said in a lesson, the mind is the substance with which we will build up either our hell or our paradise, our prison or our palace. It is the way of thinking. And it is the disposition of the heart. Because in the heart are all the hells and all the paradises. That's the gate towards the hell or towards the paradise. What do we have? To purify the heart. Because if it's not purified, we'll be in darkness. And we need light. Wherefrom we shall get the light? We are the light. Our self-consciousness, using the mind, is the light. You realize it after you start practicing reason. Now, we said about the elementals. One of the duties is just to study these elementals already composing your present personality or your subconsciousness. We are losing many, many, many hours aimlessly. Why should we not dispose some time in introspection, that means looking within, checking how is now our subconsciousness or our personality. It is the same. It is synonym. What are the defects? What we have just to take out and what to put in our subconsciousness? Study the nature of the subconsciousness. Now, I'm telling you something very, very important, which you have in your mind. This subconsciousness is a storehouse. Half of it is in our hands and we made it very, very, very dirty and filthy, but smelling. And the ruler of this part of this storehouse is a devil called personal egoism. And we, we are slumbering without suspecting that we are not that egoist master of that part of our storehouse, our subconsciousness. The other half is in the hands of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Archangels get the divine substance and with it, they are feeding our bodies, building our bodies. So, everything is well in that side. And from that other side, comes and rushes in that dirty side, the substance of the mind we are using, making it dirty. Though we ask about our daily bread, we spoil it and then we eat it. We don't eat it pure and good. So, but in between these two states, by the egoism and by the Holy Archangels, is built a new state of things, which is called the subconsciousness. Now, with another meaning, the subconsciousness, or we call it the subconscious mind. And this is a power of keeping some balance. This kind of subconsciousness, not our subconsciousness, but that subconsciousness we must know and cooperate with it. Of course, cleaning our subconsciousness, we purify that side of that general subconsciousness, which is for every human being. What is the quality of this mind subconscious? First of all, it is not reasoning. It is a neutral ground. And from it are getting the life and the power, the etheric vitality, the three bodies. And by the suggestions we make, becoming auto-suggestions, that part of the subconsciousness is working, controlling the mind. So everything which happens to a human being comes from this side of his existence I call the subconscious mind. Let me not call it subconsciousness. I repeat it. It is not reasoning, but obeying suggestions and orders. Whatever you say and you believe will influence your material body, your psychical and your nautical body. And it is that part, Joshua the Christ said, he who has faith and knows, with that subconsciousness can tell the mountain where it will go. Now, how this subconsciousness works? There was a fellow who was practicing hypnotism. He was a doctor. Of course, it is many, many years I have seen myself this thing. It was summer. Fellow, half in trance, not completely in trance, naked from the navel upwards. It was summer. He was looking at the eyes of the hypnotizer. A fellow was roaming about in front of him with a cigarette, just making it bright. Then going behind him, that fellow was influenced. That fellow just going around. Then in a moment, the doctor said, no, no, don't do it. Don't do it. Of course, he was scared. No, don't put your cigarette on the shoulder of this fellow. Why you should do this stupid thing? And the fellow touched that fellow with a pencil. That fellow was influenced. That fellow shook, ahhh, as being burned. When the pencil was away, the burn was there, as if the cigarette was placed there. Now, some are doing performances on the stage. Hot performances. They put in trance a fellow. They tell him the suggestion. You become light as a feather, and you see what they say, levitation. The body becomes very light, going up. You can see this phenomenon now. They are doing it, unfortunately, on the stage, instead of studying all these cases scientifically. So, there is what we call the subconscious mind. In between, I said, our personality, and gets all the day suggestions. If you see somebody with cancer, and you are afraid, oh, I got this. Maybe that's cancer. Cancer will come. And if you have cancer, real cancer, tested, and say, no, that will go. It will go. Day and night, I see all these things, with people coming to me. So, most of the people are playing stupid games to themselves with their subconsciousness. It's better for psychiatrists and psychiatric healers to know all this about the subconscious mind, and how to work with it. So, when you want to get rid of something, an illness, or some evil, emotionally or mentally, take it out from your mind. Be disinterested. Forget it, and order it to go. It will go. Now, certain weaknesses, you want to get rid of it. Alcoholism, adultery, gambling, even stealing, and all that. If you fight them, you will not succeed to overcome them. The more you think and fight them, the more strong they become in pressing you. If you want to get rid of anything, take out of it your interest. Forget it. Let it go. It will be disenergized and go to the Cosmic Consciousness. This is how we must work with our subconscious mind. I do not call it subconsciousness, which is in our personality, and which is the hour, the best hour to work with it and implant these suggestions. The time you are feeling sleepy and you go to bed, just that time, say what you want, it will obey you. If you don't have a watch, say, tomorrow I want to get up at 6 o'clock, and you sleep on it, when you wake up and see on your watch, it will be 6 o'clock. Who woke you up? So this is a practical study, scientifically, this subconsciousness. I had another example. Before some years, I was in a village. There was a man who never felt ill. He was about 28 years of age, a farmer, strong. He would knock on the wall, it would come down. He was going out just to sow wheat in his field. Two doctors, a pathologist and a psychiatrist, started thinking, they said, now we shall just experiment with that fellow. I said, no, don't do these stupid things. He said, no, you don't care. So they saw him coming out of his house in the morning, going to the fields, whistling and singing. The one came to him and said, hallo, Yanni. He said, hallo. Hallo, doctor. He says, early in the morning. He says, yes, I'm making a walk here. But come here, come here. Let me see your eyes. God will see my eyes. Take out from your mouth your tongue to see it. Oh, yes. You are ill. He said, doctor, what are you saying? I am as strong as a bull. What do you say? No, no. These are the symptoms I see in your eyes. Now, let me see here. Your glands here. You suffer from that illness, an inexistent illness he invented in his mind. Now, sooner or later you will feel shivering. And I suggest that you go to bed from now. It's only two or three days and you'll be all right. But this is just something that the fellow didn't listen to them. He said, come on, doctor. Go, I have so much work. I have three children to feed. I'll go just to do my work. He says, now, when you feel this shivering, please go to bed. He said, doctor, what do you say? That's what I tell you. He went away. After half an hour, the psychiatrist came on his way, because I knew everything. He went out. He saw Yanis. Hello, Yanis. Hello, doctor. Come here. Let me see your eyes. What the hell you see in my eyes? No. He repeated those nonsense about that illness. Let me see you have fever. Doctor, it is summer. Of course, I am sweating. That isn't fever. No, no, no. Wait. Take out your tongue. You start shivering. He said, it is already that thing. You should be in bed for two or three days. Then the fellow said to the doctor, come on. Go, doctor. I am busy. I have work. Though he didn't accept it, yet subconsciously it was working. The suggestion became subconscious autosuggestion. And he started shivering. When I saw him coming back, going home, he was making like that. I said, what is Yanis with you? I told him, don't be fooled. It's a trick. They are playing to you. He said, no, it is not. I am ill. He went to bed. In two hours, he had high fever, 40. I told him, now go. You are criminals. Go and tell him the truth. He said, yes, we'll go there. They went there. I told him, Yanis, it was just a trick. No, doctor, I am ill. Since I have fever, how is it? Yes, it is that illness. What did you tell me it was that? Of course, in three days, as they told him, he got up and he was strong. What do I mean to say with that? Don't play with your subconsciousness. Don't put ideas in your head. By seeing others suffering, don't think that I will have that. Because you will get it. And you deserve to get it. If you just play these tricks with your subconsciousness. So when you want to get rid of something, take it out of your mind and suggest to yourself the time you will feel just sleepy. No, that will go. And it will go. Now, this branch of study of the subconscious mind should occupy the mind of all psychiatrists, just like you, and all other psychotherapists. Because they use certain words now without knowing how they work and the meaning of it. Now, we'll make a meditation. Relax completely. Relax your material body completely. Start from the feet, toes, legs, the navel, the chest, the head. Feel that you are relaxed. Say now with your mind, the Holy Archangels working in your body will hear you. This body of mine, created by the Holy Providence, by the Lord, granted to me to live in it, supervised to have a perfect health, with the Archangels in it, insisting to cure every ill according to my behavior. Yes, I'll call it mine. I will live in it in the proper way fitted well, in the proper way, and love it, thanking them. I will not put in my mind negative thoughts of ill health. I'll take out of my mind every negative thought, every kind of complaint, enmity, hatred against people, which is the cause, subconscious cause, causing illnesses to my material body and to my psychical body. I will control by observation and right thinking all kinds of temptations coming as desires, ill, uncontrolled emotions, or greediness for something. I know the locus is in me, in my spirit soul, master of my body, of my bodies, three bodies. So ask the Holy Archangels and ask the Absolute Infinite Beingness through your spirit ego self and lead us while being in temptation and deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory. Your body belongs to the Absolute Infinite Beingness and you live in it, you call it right, I call it grace, by divine grace. Ask Him to continue keeping it in good health. Never live in your mind, which is your subconscious mind, any negative idea of illness or something you want to get rid of it, because this creates elementals, negative elementals, which are very harmful. Now, feel you are in the heart. See that your heart is a sun with bright light. You feel that your chest is pure and your heart is a sun radiating golden light. Bring in front of you a person or persons you have differences with them, and maybe you despise them, not to hate them, or feeling you wouldn't like to meet them. Bring them now before you. Don't see them angry, don't see them displeased, see them smiling, happy. See them, the rays of the sun of your heart is caressing their faces and tell them you love them. That doesn't mean you need to communicate with them in other way on the material plane. If differences exist and will exist, it is a material. Now you love them on a higher plane. Flood them, light them with the light of the sun of your heart and see them happy. You can do that to your beloved ones if you like. See beloved ones also in this light of your heart. Then and only then you can call them yours, not with the egoistic feeling. And in this way you are becoming theirs, again not with the materialistic human evil meaning. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you, it is his love, our love, and towards all other human beings. Enough. So study this thing of the subconscious mind. Don't put suggestions, don't get suggestions from others. Make the motto suggestion to you which may injure you or your body. Take out from your mind all negative thinking. You don't need it. And again, hatred against other people, when it is in us, in our heart, it is the worst poison for our bodies, causing illnesses. So a fellow who hates, definitely has the self-punishment in him all the time. And really, feel pity for those hating you because they are injuring themselves, not you. If you know how to protect yourself from the elementals, they protect you. Feel pity for them. How to protect yourself from the elementals cast on you? By loving them. If you love these people, that elemental will come on you, be dis-energized and go up. If you hate them, even if you are stronger and you attack the elemental, it will come on them with greater force and make them worse, more angry against you, more hateful. So, we extinguish the fire with water. We extinguish hatred and all negative feelings with love. Daskalos-Sep-16-1991-A-Lucifer-Shamael Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions. As we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We said what is, always, was and will ever be in eternity is the absolute beingness. But then what is this absolute beingness? Is this absolute beingness self-conscious? To express the total wisdom, it means this absolute beingness has its nature. The total wisdom and the all-mightiness, definitely. The absolute, infinite beingness has as its nature the total wisdom and the all- mightiness. That means God. Yes, but what else we can observe in the absolute beingness apart from the total wisdom and the all-mightiness? This is what the human intelligence can comprehend and understand. That the total wisdom expresses the will as motion in itself. The scientists call it the primum mobile. And all schools of metaphysics speak about the so-called primum mobile, which you cannot understand what it is. It's motion, movement without anything moving yet. What else we can see in the absolute beingness? We said it is the total wisdom, the all-mightiness, motion as willpower. What else? First, the self-sufficiency. The absolute beingness is in need of nothing. It has in itself the self-sufficiency. And so our spirit soul has its self-sufficiency also because our self, the real self, the spirit, is God. Now, what else we can see apart from the self-sufficiency? The self-pleasure of expressing itself in itself. Now, from this moment, the absolute beingness vibrates vibrates on what you say, the pleasure of expressing itself in itself, it emanates in the mind. Because there must be the means by which the absolute beingness will express itself in itself. Now, what else we can see and understand in the absolute beingness? That the absolute beingness has its multiplicity. As a human body has hundreds of blood cells composing the material body, the absolute beingness has a billion number of beings in it, similar to it, composing the whole absolute beingness. So, the word being is an expression of the absolute beingness. We don't have many gods, we have only one god, the absolute infinite beingness, yet in its multiplicity. Now, what is the multiplicity of the absolute beingness? If we call the absolute beingness God, then we are gods. All expressions of the beings in the absolute beingness are gods, but they are expressing the will, the pleasure of the absolute beingness. By obligation? No, as their own pleasure. Because when the absolute beingness, in its infinite total wisdom, feels that pleasure, immediately those vibrations are presented in all the beings there, which partake to the absolute beingness. So, this is not an order, not even an obligation. It is the nature of the absolute beingness, which vibrates in the other absolute beings the same nature of presenting themselves. But now, from that very moment, from the absolute beingness as a whole, and from the absolute beings who are me, all the orders of the holy archangels emanate the means of expression, which is the mind. And now, the mind is holy, it's not divine. One must not make the mistake that the mind is God, or the mind is the Holy Spirit. And we can explain it later, why. This is impossible. So, the human intelligence can reach as far as that. Human nature, those who can develop in their personality, what we call the self-superconsciousness, that means express themselves as souls, not as a present day personality, the creation of time and certain place in time. So, what is the absolute infinite beingness, God? We call it eternal life. It's life. And God exists now in the world of existence, which is the manifestation of the absolute beingness. It's the world of existence to exist. Worlds, not one. Universes, not one. The material universe is only one heaven. Now, what do we see? According to the work to be undertaken by certain class of these beings, the holy archangels, it is how we classify them. So, it is manifold the way the archangels are manifesting themselves as their will and the will of the absolute beingness. Why the will of the absolute beingness? Because the total wisdom is in the absolute beingness and being in them also. They express themselves, but they choose now the way to express themselves creatively. And so, as human intelligence, we can see these beings, the holy archangels, classified in certain orders. We have, first of all, the three divine orders, which nobody can know much about them. Maybe there are other orders unknown to us. These orders, which very little we can know about them, are the principalities, the authorities, and the thrones. This is what the Church and all the serious religions do believe. Now, for the principalities and the authorities, we cannot know anything. But we know that these orders do exist. Now, these thrones, about them we know many things. First, that when a spirit soul is going to be incarnated and humanized, from the order of the thrones, one within a metathron, as now the Greek word, comes and joins that spirit soul of the man, ekofied. Now, I'm using the word ego, which means I, the I-ness, the self-consciousness. Ekofied means attaching itself to the spirit soul who's going to be incarnated, becoming one with it, yet having its own identity. They gave an example the other day. Have a candle. I light it. They have another candle. I light it. I have two flames. When you join the candles, you have one flame. Yet it is two flames in one flame. You separate the candles, then you have two flames. So, this metathroneus, ekofied to the spirit soul which will be humanized, keeps its nature and is getting also all the experiences of the humanized spirit ego, who is God again. Now, spirit ego, our self, and the metathroneus are one God. And we said that in the absolute beingness, that beyond number, archangels of all the orders. Now, from their work as the total wisdom, we classify them according to their vibrations, expressing the total wisdom, the all-mightiness. They possess the all-mightiness because they are gods. So, what can we see in these archangels? What classifies these archangels? The use they make of the mind. In their creative work in the universes. So, we call them lords of the elements. Now, what are the elements? Certain frequency and vibrations of the mind. Because everything, all the universes are the mind. So, we have the mind as a super substance, formless, without any form. We have the mind as substance, reflection of the ideas who are in the formless mind, now as a form, any form. We have billions of forms, living forms all around us in the material universe. But we have millions of other forms which are not existing on our material plane, which are in the psychical universe. Those who can move about freely in the psychical world, they can see them, contact them, learn them in the same way they do in the material plane. So, according to the work and the vibration of these archangels, we classify them to Michaels, name given from the old times by the Egyptians and then other civilizations, who are the lords of light, fire, and heat. We have the other elves. The name just is telling its nature, which are not, is the nature of the element as mist, water, which is around the planet and on the planet. Governor is the lord of the liquids. We have the Raphaels, billions in number, which are the lords of what we call magnetism, etheric vitality, energy, call it whatever you like, electricity, and many, many other names. The orthodox scientists will find out in due course, cosmic rays. Doesn't matter what name we give it, it is energy, it is the etheric vitality. And we have also these three archangels working together. Now I have a question. Olivia brought me that question. Why don't I speak anything about the lord of the earth? When they say the earth, they mean, of course, matter. Because matter is not only the planet and the earth. Matter is the moon, and the stars, the galaxies, everywhere. And we say that matter is solid mind. That means mind vibrating at the lowest frequencies. Good. Our material earth doesn't have an archangel to the degree of the other archangels, but they have a kind of archangel, which is called Shamael. Shamael, in the old Egyptian language, means Lucifer. I'm telling you, Lucifer is not the devil. He's an archangel. So, the orders of the Lucifers, the carriers of the light, are archangels. But Shamael is an expression of the Lucifer. And that expression is not as full as the expression of Michael, Gabriel, and Raphael, who we are speaking about. So, conducting Shamael, we see that Shamael is and is not an archangel. Because he's divided to certain intelligences, which some are considered by man as evil, and some are considered as good. While all the manifestations and expressions of the Michaels, Gabriels, Raphaels are holy. That's why we don't mention much about Shamael. I say and repeat, he's not evil. Good. Why not? But he's antagonistic. That's why we don't mention him about too much. Now, evil and good. What is evil and what is good? We judge it from our own human interests. So, we are in the world of the bitterest illusion. Why? As human beings, if a beast, a monster comes in our house, many times bigger than us, and kills our children, eating them. What do we call that being? A devil. Yes. For us, that entity is a devil. What are we doing to our brothers, the animals all around us? Not killing them, to eat them. So, who is the devil for the animal kingdom? Not the human being. Yet, we are good. Very good. We are very good human beings. So, what is good and what is evil is according to the human interest. And we should be just sincere with ourselves. So, we will not speak more about Shamael. Many times, Shamael is hostile to us. Why? Because we are hostile to nature. That's what I said. We are sometimes antagonistic. And Shamael is antagonistic to us. While really, a seeker of the truth approaching Shamael, he will approach him as a friend. And a loving brother. But I'm telling you, because he's antagonistic. Human beings do not consider Shamael as an angel, archangel, as Michael, Raphael and Gabriel. Why? Because Shamael is giving to us the material body, the bones, without doing anything. While all the other three classes of the archangels are working with the material, with the stuff Shamael is providing, which means matter. Now I have the lord of heat, light, warmth, Michael, working with that substance. Giving warmth to the cross-material body. They have the lord of the liquids. Gabriel working, cooperating with Michael. They have also Raphael working, giving the magnetism, the energy, the etheric vitality in the body. While these three archangels are doing their work as their nature and the pleasure of the infinite beingness, they are always good. They are not antagonistic. Why? Because in building, in the material body, they don't care if that personality of a man is considered good or bad. We inflict a wound, deep wound, on the leg of a fellow. That fellow may be a saint or he might be a criminal. The Michaels, the Kapplers, the Raphaels are doing their creative work. They don't care if the personality living in that body is a criminal or a saint. That wound will be cured. Will cross up. It won't stay. So they don't criticize. They simply work creatively. While Shamael is antagonistic. He has a kind of instinctive consciousness which is antagonistic to the personality of the man. More I cannot say about it. Because no need to say. And we are antagonistic to it. Because Shamael is the cause of all the human illnesses. If a person is counteracting to the laws of what we call the etheric vitality. While the other archangels are building and building and creatively doing. Shamael is antagonistic, presents illnesses in the material body. That's why I would not speak more about it. Coming in contact. A man without being in that state. Or considered to be very, very good. Killing the egoism. Shamael is antagonistic. When is he creatively working for the man who approaches him. When that man has killed completely his egoism. That means antagonist in each surface of personality to be affected by the law of Shamael. And then the archangels are giving him the authority of materialization. He can be master of the materialization. That means ordering Shamael. Controlling Shamael. Because we are not going just to create black magicians or brown magicians or anything like that. So the less we say, coming in contact with Shamael, the better. Unless one, seeker of the truth, reaches higher levels of consciousness. When Shamael will come and offer him the authority. So then and only then one can be master of materialization and dematerialization. And even of transmuting matter from one state to other. Because the lord of the matter is what we call matter, is Shamael. So more we cannot say about that. Now a man raising his consciousness. By controlling the mind, comes first in touch with his guardian angel. Always you are in touch with your guardian angel without knowing it. Sometimes you talk to yourself and try to reason. Do you think it's to yourself you are talking? Or you have a conversation with your guardian angel without understanding it? What makes you feel that this is good or this is bad? Don't do it and do it. In you, your guardian angel. And because that guardian angel is sycophant, you think you speak with yourself. Now is it with yourself really? Others do it and he will interfere in another way. By creating in you distinct subconsciousness. Which means counteracting to your decisions. Presenting himself your guardian angel. That he's opposing you. Just study what are these things of consciousness. In making the introspection of self-analysis, we have to study all these conditions of our personality. Now, in the bible, the holy bible, one reads in Genesis, and God said to whom? To his multiplicity. Said, what does it mean said? Expressed in vibrations his own pleasure and the total wisdom. Said, in which language? Of course it was not in any human language. It was the highest vibrations having in it the total wisdom and the almightiness. God said, let us create. Create, bring forward man. So a human being, a human being is a creation. Just as all other creatures all around us. The vegetable kingdom and all the animal kingdom. To have a material body. Create a man, but he continues. To our imagination according to our likeness. To be like us. As spirit, soul, ego. This is what makes a difference between us and all the animal life all around us. We have a self-consciousness. Self-consciousness. Yes. Created in time and place. But still we have weak self-consciousness, which is our spirit, soul, ego. Insane. An immortal God. Immortal God. But as human beings, I present the personality. We are a creation having in it the self- consciousness. Self-consciousness now. And it says, he breathed in the nostrils of the man. His breath got the absolute being. That means in the material body enters our spirit, soul, sense. Now it is symbolically, but clearly stated in the Holy Bible, this great truth. So, our material body, our psychical body, our nautical body, with the etheric tables, are created. But our self, even as a present day personality, you are God and God's manifestation. Because even the personality of a human being, of a man or a woman, is a self. And St. John the Evangelist, writing his gospel, writing about the locus, says the locus is the light which lighted every human being, every human being coming to the world. So, manifesting ourselves also as self-consciousnesses, because we are a negro, an aborigine, or anything, we are not an animal. We are a self-consciousness. We are not the descendants of the monkeys and the apes. Let's say we start to God. Charles Darwin expressed, and I say, we belong to a different circle of possibilities and probabilities, which is the law and is total wisdom, which we can study. Now, another question we have. We said everything emanates and is expressed by the Holy Spirit. Definitely the Holy Spirit is not Geist. It's a mistake to say, hi again, Geist, and mean the Holy Spirit. Geist means the mind only. And the mind is not God, it is the expression of God. Now, what's the Holy Spirit? The Holy Spirit is the absolute beingness in a certain kind of expression, dynamically. So, I have not three Gods, infinite beingness, the Lord Christ as the locus, and then the Holy Spirit. It's the same infinite, absolute beingness in different expressions. There it is on the symbol of life. You can see that triangle, equidistant, having in it three other triangles, equidistant. But yet it's one triangle. That's the Trinity in one. So, all expressions, lokoikali, by the absolute beingness, the locus, are coming from the infinite beingness. Christ, as the locus said, my Father is greater than I am. I express my Father. And the Holy Spirit, which is impersonal manifestation of the infinite beingness, is the infinite beingness. So, whatever is done, carrying the all-mightiness of the infinite beingness, as the Holy Spirit, is the absolute beingness. So, there are not two infinite beingnesses. And the Holy Spirit, it's one, in a different way of manifestation. So, we have only one God. We don't present the polytheistic system by speaking about Gods, because all those Gods are manifesting the absolute beingness in its multiplicity. When I say multiplicity, it doesn't mean the absolute beingness is multiplied. No. The absolute beingness has in its demultiplicity already all beings have ever been and will ever be, and who are not created. Because they are not creatures, the holy beings. They are the infinite beingness in its multiplicity. Now, you can understand that when you reach that state of atonement, in a super self-consciousness, to understand what is. One in all. So, there is only one God. The absolute infinite beingness in its multiplicity. Now, we said this general lesson. What is the mind? We said, the pleasure of the infinite beingness, expressed also by the pleasure of the being, the archangelic orders, manifests the mind. As the stuff by which they will create and build. So, what they are doing is from inside them. It is their nature. Creative nature. So, this manifestation of the holy beings and the absolute holy beingness, of the Logos and the Holy Spirit, is the infinite beingness, call it whatever you like. This manifestation emanates the mind. But was there any time in the past when this was not done? No. Because the everlasting life, which is the infinite beingness, always had the manifestation of the infinite beingness as the pleasure of the infinite beingness. And of the holy archangels. So, always the mind was emanating, is emanating, and will be emanating from the holy absolute beingness. The mind. What is the mind? Said the mind is super-consciousness, formless. There is not any form in it. Yet, there are the laws, the causes of the total wisdom of the infinite beingness. And there are working the principalities and the authorities. And we cannot approach and see what they express there. We must study the laws of cause, then. From the laws of cause. We have in lower grade what we call the ideas. What are the ideas, now? Laws. Causes. But their reflection is given as the forms. So, the causes of the manifestation of everything to be created, and which has been created, are the ideas. Now, what are the ideas? One should understand, not by words from a primary instructor, but after raising his consciousness to the highest levels of super- consciousness, to partake of the nature of the ideas, which is beyond the manifestation. No more I cannot speak about these states. Of super-consciousness. So, the reflection of these causes, ideas, are creating the forms. Now, I have the forms in the lower nature of the mind, which is what we call the noetika. What do we say sometimes for the mind? Noetika. And noetika, it's not a mistake. They are two different states. In the noetika, I have the ideas, and the causes, and the laws. In the noetika, I have their reflection, which is the forms. Forms. How many forms? At least you have billions on the material plane. You have billions in the psychical plane. Billions in the noetika plane, which are not now existing on the material. And one, when raising his self, super-consciousness to this level, he can live in the same way he is living in the material plane, and in the other planes, the psychical plane, the noetika plane, that he will know, not by being taught by a brother, instructor, or guide, but now being in a state to see, observe, and come to the reality. So, no human help is needed in those levels of the super-self-consciousness. The brother, instructor and guide, can lead somebody until the level of the noetika level. But then, the one who reaches there, man or a woman, has to go himself further. Because every one of us is a spirit, soul, ego. In those states of the self-super- consciousness, there are no distinctions. All are gods. So, now, how do we reach there? It's a very reasonable question. Since we say we are gods, we, as a personality, Mary and George, are gods. In nature, yes. In expression, no. In nature, expressing a self-consciousness, of course they are gods. To the same self-consciousness, they are, not they have, a spirit soul. But now, as human beings, having a material body, a psychical body, and a noetical body, they express and create a personality. And this personality, under the loss of continuous changes, because the loss of the material world, of the psychical world, and the noetical world, are the loss of changes. Changing, everything changes. Developing, growing, coming to existence, and passing out of existence. The body can't violate this alone, which we need to study. So, each one of us, man or a woman, having as its nature and its self, ego, even as a personality now, is authorized to develop itself, freeing itself from the bodies, and realize who you are. Because you are not what you think you are. The material body, or the psychical body, that means your emotions, your desires, and your weaknesses, they are not that. Or your thoughts, serving desires and emotions, you are not even that. What are you? Here is just the work and the training. You must learn what is concentration, that means fixing your attention, your observation on a certain thing, in a certain period of time, you choose, but unbroken, undisturbed, concentration. That's difficult, but not impossible. And each one has to train himself in that. Before starting, what do we say? Meditation. Meditation. What does it mean now, meditation? What can we meditate? Anything. Now we shall speak about this circle of possibilities. The next question, thereafter. We said that everything existing as a living form, from the amoeba, the ant, the fly, the bee, the cows, the lambs, the goats, the elephant, has a beginning and an end. That beginning and an end, they complete a circle of possibilities. But the end is the beginning, because it's a circle. That's why we say it's a circle. And for a man, it is the reincarnation. So, let us take this circle of a human being. First of all, it is the creation by the holy Archangels of the spermatozoa in the body of a male person. Male person makes love with a woman, giving this spermatozoa, the woman, the opportunities, a new being and creature to come in the world. See, being and creature. What does it mean, being and creature? The body is the creature, the being is the spirit, soul, which will be reincarnated. So, that personality now, in the world of existence, starts birth, growing, growing, becoming an adult, becoming a young man or a young woman, it depends, then becoming himself or herself to cause new beginning and an end of circles of possibilities for another creature, another being. And then it comes to the end, which is passing over. So, that person covers part of the circle of possibilities, not the whole circle. Continues in the psychical plane, the life. Goes on. Continues the life in the nautical plane. Goes on. So, the rest, the incarnate again, entering in a spermatozoa, as he does the first time. Now, new body, new circumstances, new places. But in that creature is the spirit, soul, ego, to adapt itself to the circumstances, create a personality. Live in different circumstances as a person, yet having in that person its nature. I am I. Daskalos-Sep-16-1991-B-Lucifer-Shamael So, our spirit, soul, ego, is life. That's why we are gods. And, we are living for a certain period of time, as human beings. As human beings, we have a beginning and an end. We have to go around the circle of possibilities. Now, what is this circle of possibilities? A few moments, a few hours, a few days, a few years, many years, it depends upon the form, the living form, the manifestation of life. What is the duration of the circle of possibilities of a macro, of an ant, of a fly, of any animal, of a tree, of a little plant? So, starting naturally around us, we will see the circle of possibilities. Which it means, you cannot go from your circle of possibilities to another circle of possibilities. We start with the seed. Many, many kinds of seeds. Billions of seeds having the same size and the same color. The same substance. Matter. Yet, in each seed, there is this circle of possibilities. The seed of a mustard plant and the seed of an eucalyptus tree are the same. When you see that, you put them in your palm. And no scientist can distinguish which is the seed of the mustard and which is the seed of the eucalyptus. For the total wisdom of the Almighty, it is there in them. Planting them, your seed will give you an eucalyptus which may live for hundreds of years. Maybe. That's the circle of its possibilities. What is the circle of possibilities of the mustard seed? A season. A few months. After producing again seeds, what is to be distinguished? All forms of life are favored by the archangels of the creation and their archangels supervising it. With the creativeness. That means creating seeds which will carry on the circles of possibilities. Now, is that not most wise? Can we not just see now that super-intelligence we call God or life? We should just understand that God and life are the same thing. But what's eternal life? What's the phenomenon of life? So, these things can be studied in deep meditation. Meditation now. We meditate usually on the circle of possibilities. Which means, after learning the concentration, training yourself for that, then you start the circle of possibilities. You get something, anything. A plant. Find the beginning. A seed. A cutting to be rooted. A bulb. How does it start its life? Now, until you reach that point, don't go behind it. Go forward. The circle of possibilities. What should you do? You see it. See it in your bulb. If it is a bulb, or a sheet, or get the scissors and have a cutting from a rose bush or some other bush. You multiply them by rooting them. And see how it is done. How people are doing it. Plant it, sow it, see it. Which means meditation means also visualization. How to train yourself in this visualization to get the skill of it. See. Sit with the closed eyes, comfortably. After relaxing completely, definitely. No tension. And peaceful. Start to visualize. And then sit. And sit. Let us take now the seat of quit. Sit in your palm. Close your eyes. Sit in your palm. Drop it down on the ground. Fertile ground. Now see a landscape. See the rain. See the drops of the rain making their jump and covering it. Continue singing. Shooting roots. Two quite little things piercing the ground. Going down and then again over it. The greenish thing to come on the surface. See it growing. Making roots. Growing up. And see it as you can see it in the field. See it growing, growing. Not just jump. Jumping. See it growing. Continuously. Not to sit just like that, the speaker with the ears. No. Meditation means see it growing naturally, properly. Then see the ears of course. See the whole landscape. There are billions of such seeds of corn now. But stick on that one. You are meditating on. Sitting with just a wave in the field. See the combined now. Working. See those who are reaping this, if you like. Conditions changed. See what you can see and what you like to see. But continuously. See heaps of that kind of seed. The grace of God. That one seed made it so many. And each of them will have a beginning on what I call circle of possibility. It cannot escape from you. In all centuries, all seeds of corn have been seeds of corn. They didn't become the seeds of something else. Now this is a study on what I call the total wisdom of God. And you just realize that everything in the material plane. The vegetable kingdom, the animal kingdom, everywhere are under this total wisdom. You don't like to call him God. Call him super-intelligent. Doesn't matter. Anything you do will not be able to comprehend what is the absolute infinite beingness. Unless you bring the absolute beingness to your measure of understanding. He is not offended. Don't worry. The absolute infinite beingness is not offended. If we try to understand it, bringing it to our measures. But not to our weaknesses, for God's sake. To our measures of reasonably understanding what it might be. Because during the past ages, people created many, many, many, many gods. When I say to their measures, giving to these gods, they are false. They are vices. They are weaknesses. Now, any gods they have created. All human beings from the earth. It is the infinite beingness. Everything existed and exists in the infinite beingness. It is created by what we call the mind. Which is emanations of the infinite beingness. So, whether you go to South Africa or to any place. And you see a very ugly form of God made of wood or of anything else. And they kneel and pray. They pray to the infinite beingness. Without knowing it. You call them idolaters. No. They are in need of believing that they have a protection from an intelligence higher than themselves. That was the need of the human beings. Of the cavemen. That was a necessity. So, why should we see them as idolaters? Since everything is of God and from God. Without knowing it. And now Christians. Even Christians. They are calling themselves not idolaters. Even for the saints. Of the Roman Catholic Church and the Orthodox Church. The Protestants. Luther. Took away from the Lutheran Church. The saints. Even the Virgin Mary. What to really see? Subconsciously. Instinctively. Not consciously. The Mother of God. Is in our consciousness the Mother of God. Before the birth of Mary. Yes. The Virgin Mary. Because she remained virgin. She reflected the real Mother. But the Mother of Nature. Was before the birth of the Virgin Mary. Who gave birth to Christ. And for me it is the infinite, absolute femininity. Creativeness. Which it was always. Is now and will always be. It is an aspect of the absolute, infinite beingness. The pansympathic femininity. Which was reflected. In its highest degree. In the Virgin Mary. But the Virgin Mary. Had a form of a woman. Perfect though. Yes. But. Phenomenon of life. In a period of time. And in a space-place which was Palestine. She passed over. As we believe. Dematerialized her body. Because the body of the Virgin Mary. In substance should be different to the body of any other woman. Just so that the absolute infinite beingness. Has perfect laws to be incarnated as Joshua the Christ. Also the body of Joshua the Christ. Just like the body of anybody else. Walking on the waters. So this is not something to be discussed. Let the theologians do it. But Luther had done the greatest mistake. In punishing noble elementals. Which were the saints. Which people were feeling the need. Of having them. So. What are the Christians now? Believing for the saints. What were the saints? The saints were human beings. Who succeeded by prayer and by the way of their life. To raise their self-consciousness to the highest levels of self-super- consciousness. Therefore can be conducted now even. These are the saints. We can call them Christ. Because whatever ever existed. Exists in the cosmic consciousness. Either active or dormant. Everybody can investigate that. In reaching in higher levels of self-super-consciousness. So. We said everything is the mind. Good. These elementals do exist now. And you have purified. Good archangelic and angelic elementals. You have also evil elementals. Why should we conduct all the time evil elementals? Kneeling before that idol. There is an idol. Our request. And not before pure and good. Evil elementals. Which might be called the saints. And the saints. Most of them are unknown. And most. Canonized as the saints. In reality they are not the saints. Because they have been human beings. With even criminal tendencies. Because we are not going to discuss that. I don't believe in all the saints. But I do believe in the saint ship. Of Francis of Assisi. Of the Dominican founder. And many many others. Which now these intelligences. Their super-consciousness. Are around us and ready to help us. But they don't accept a name now. We can contact any of these super-intelligences now. Around the planet. Whether you call Saint Nicholas. Or Saint Savas. Or Saint Dominic. Or Saint Francis. Or Saint Antonio. Giving any name. Now in their super-consciousness. They are all one. And they are ready to help. Because this you will find it. When you raise your consciousness. To their level. Because there are many many levels of consciousness. One consciousness. Raising to its level. And you can do that. By continuous meditation. Reaching that level we call intuition. Which is now the interference of your guardian angel. Going further to what we call contemplation. And to other states of consciousness. There is not a name for them. You have just to reach to them. Know them. Without giving names. No need to give names. Which means meditation. Which means using the mind now. Which is our property. It's our right to use it. To know. To know what? That we are not the mind. And we are not the bodies. And we are not the phenomenon of life. Though it's a reflection of ourselves. Now. Reaching a state that now. I know that. I am I. No more Mary. Or George. Name? Yes, it's enough the name. I am I. But it's common to me. What's wrong in that? We enter in our nature. We enter in the heavenly man. In the idea of man. Through which we have been humanized. There is not any special name. On the divine and heavenly man. We are reflecting. And even Christ, Joshua. Who was God. The locus incarnated directly. Coming through the idea of man. He calls himself. The son of man. Honoring. The idea of man. Can you come in contact with the idea of man? Yes, when you reach the self super-consciousness. And you have in you are. Not personality now. But individuality. The qualities of the divine man. You know what is the divine man. The heavenly man. Because we belong to that order of the archangels. Called. Man. And man is a class and an order of archangels. So. Why do we neglect. This origin of ours. Our source. The heavenly man. The ideal man. Who teaches about it. Our guardian angel. Who took that form and that shape. In us and with us. Sometimes. Of course. In the innermost circles of our order. The brother guide is teaching the way. Of conducting and coming in touch. Even with the. Divine heavenly man. Which means. You come in contact with Christ. Because we cannot reach Christ. In its. Logoic nature. It is too high for us. Unless we see him. As a human being. As the ideal man. Which means. Unless we create. And conceive. Pure elementals. It is through elementals. We shall see the reality. Behind the elementals. So. In reality. In meditating. That means. Getting the skill. To understand the nature of the mind. And how to use the mind. It is creating elementals. And we create elementals. Even now. In an instinctive way. Because we are sentimental life. In a subconscious way. For our feelings. Not knowing very much. About things. With right thinking. Creating now. Creating elementals. Even creating elementals. In higher. In higher levels. But all the time it is elementals. Which means forms. Until we reach that level. We don't need anymore the forms. But we enter. In the origin of forms. Which are the ideas. The laws. The causes. Now I think we are in very deep waters. We have come to the surface. So. Anybody has the right. And this is. The persuasion. Of the Godman. Joshua the Christ. Be ye perfect. As perfect is your Heavenly Father. That's clear. We have the right. He is persuading us. How? We ask him now. How? He says I taught you. Know the truth. And the truth will liberate you. From all illusions in life. He came to us. Should we be now. Violent. Asking what is the truth. What is the truth? Why Christ did not reply to. The Roman Governor. What is the truth? Because even if he would. He would not understand. But he taught us. I am the way. And the truth. And life. Which means the truth is life. That's clear. And how we should. Understand all that. By making use of. Their mind. As right thinking. Meditating. Visualizing. Observing. Understanding. Understanding God. I. Who understands. I am not. The object of understanding. Which means. I am a different person. Now. I can. Master and control. My material body. I am not my material body then. But I live in it. We will study what is. Going on in the material body. Just to appreciate and value. The work of the Holy Archangels. Creatively. In our material body. A great honor. To engage themselves all the time. Continuously to create a body. And keep it in good hands. So that we. We live in it. But we are not a material body. It is theirs. Let us call it ours also. Do not get angry. Study our emotional body. Psychical body. And see that we can control. Our desires. Control our emotions. Control the element. As composing our personality. And our subconsciousness. Be able to clear up. Completely. And clean. That dirty pool. Of our subconsciousness. From our weaknesses. Jealousies. Enmities. Hatred. The desire of attacking. So we are not that. Because we can control that. And then. Now I am using the mind. And I can use the mind now. Properly. Instead of using it before. In serving our emotions. In serving our desires. Now. I give to the mind. My mind. The mastery to check them. Control them. And through the mind. I come to certain decisions. I am not in the mind also. Because I cannot control the mind. Ich bin nicht das Geist. Many are making the mistake. To think that they are the thought. We are not the thought. And also. The mind is not. The Holy Spirit. You Germans make a great mistake. To connect. The mind with the Holy Spirit. Because the Holy Spirit. Is the manifested one. And the mind. The mind is the means of manifestation. So you have to make this distinction. The Holy Spirit. Is the infinite beingness. Itself. You shouldn't separate it. So what emanates. From the Holy Spirit. Emanates from the absolute infinite beingness. Which is. Everlasting life. Now. First of all. By starting the meditation. Not at the beginning. Because it is a difficult subject. To know what is life. Even as a manifestation. What is life. As a phenomenon of life. But this is still. More difficult. Than just using the mind. In concentration. And in meditation. Of what you call. The circle of possibilities. Of anything you choose. To meditate. To meditate upon. So. Knowing after all. What is the mind. How you use the mind. What is the reasoning. You understand. The value of the phenomenon of life. Your life. In a material body. Of a man or a woman. Is not. To be considered. That it is of not much value. It is. Because. If it was not of much value. Why should. The holy archangels. Engage themselves. Continuously. To create. For you the spermatozoon. And work in a body. You call it work. Until the time. They decide to dissolve it. So that they will give you another one. So. These things are to be studied. By means of. Meditation. That's what I said the other day. We must occupy our minds. With the right meditation. Because there are certain things. Given as meditation. From this text book. Leading nowhere. Now we have. By studying. The circles of possibilities. And probabilities. I can say. These are not difficult things to do. But they are possible. And we need to do it. You are going. Really to gain the right knowledge. On nature. And what is going on. All around us. And also study. Our own personality. Boldly. Facing it. Acknowledging the force. Which means. You are working doubly. As the present personality. And as the ego. But the reality you are not doubly. You are one. And I gave an example. To create a coin. I need two faces. But one coin. On the one side of the coin. Is the nature of the coin. It's your nature. God. Absolute infinite being. But you never care about. The value of the coin. You see the other side of the coin. Which is your present day personality. So it's better to see that you are. A golden coin. With some value. Because we have. Variety of values. In what we call the coin. As money. So. Now. What is the most precious thing. Given to us. By the infinite being as God. Or by our inner nature. Our spirit soul. Because we emanate also. Mind as God. But. Now. This does not emanate. From our personality. Of George or Mary. It emanates. From our ego. But. Do we know our ego now? But we have fixed our attention. Too much on our present day personality. A creation of time. And a certain place. In space. So we have to free ourselves from this illusion. So. What do we understand? One. Can gain money. Properties. Owners. Everything around him. Calling all these things. His property. With what right? Did you make matter? Never mind. Shall not discuss that matter. But what is really. Our right. And our right property. We are not giving. Too much attention to it. Our mind. Because our mind. The mind. Expressed through us. That's why I call it our mind. It's our identity. It's our. Little self even. The material plane. As George and Mary. Unless you lose the mind. The way. The one way or the other. How do you know that you exist and you are? So our. Biggest property. Given to us by the father. Is the mind. Our daily bread. We are asking for. So. We have to use the mind. Do we use our mind as a reason? All of us. We are living instinctively. Like all the other animals around us. What does it make us? Feel that we are different. From the other. Forms of life. Around us. Just the use of the mind. Expressing ourselves. As a self. As an I-ness. As an ego. So knowing that. We value life. Because as a spirit soul. We are life. And we are. The everlasting life. Because our spirit equals. We are immortal. But not as a personality. So we reach. To this point. By. Training ourselves. In concentration. In the right meditation. In cleaning our. Present day personality. By. Introspection. Or looking within. Or checking the nature. Of our subconsciousness. And we are masters of it. We can make changes. We can cause this change. And by doing it. The real gain. Is to realize. Who we are. And so we advance. And advance. Of course this is for the general public. For everybody. For the seeker of the truth. The Brotherhood. Has more complicated. Exercises. Which cannot be used. By anybody. From the public. Unless one reaches. Those degrees of the order. Which are. The innermost center. And the innermost center. Not the inner center. Because even in the inner center. Many can enter. But it is very difficult. To enter in the innermost circle. Which is three degrees. And the innermost circle. Which are the three degrees. Leading to what? Much beyond. The real self-realization. You know who you are. You are everything else. Spirit, soul. And what is after all. If we reach there. To become most powerful. Matter. Is in your hands. All the words. Are in your hands. To deal with. The psychical plane. To become there an invisible helper. Entering all the sub-planes of the psychical world. With authority. To help. The nautical world. Is in your hands. You can master the mind. But of course you are not black magicians. To influence the other. Changing their mind. Even for their good. Because everybody should get experience. Mind. In each step of the development. Is the devil. To persuade you. To change route. That's why I am telling all the time. We must kill egoism. Because egoism. Is the worst devil. Because of all good evil of the world. And present itself. As an angel of light. As the bible says. You must be. Just cautious to see. This angel of light. Coming here. As the sense of good. Is that so or. It's the devil. Which means. When you gain the authority. Of mind reading. Of being able to change. The minds of others. You don't have the right to do it. Even believing that you are doing. For their good. No. They are on the stage of the development. They should have their lessons. Interfere. Free them from pain. Without influencing. Their personality. Now. The devil. As egoism comes to you. As the angel of light. But I mean good. Dominating over others. This is a warning for the seekers of the truth. Because somebody. Who just now entered. In this circle. Said yes but what I have done. I have done it to myself. Just for his good. I said stop it. But. Stop it. You'll get his lessons. Advice and keep silent. So the first thing. A seeker of the truth. Should know. Is to value the freedom. Of the will. Of the others. And allow them to get their own. Lessons from life. Interfering only. To minimize the pain. But not to change. Their dispositions. Advising them. To change. Yes. Forcing them to change. No. Because this is something that needs much clarification. And this. Is needed by everybody. Many parents. And some of them. Think that by forcing your will. To your children. For their good. You are doing your duty. You are wrong. You have to persuade. Convince him. To accept it. And make the change. From inside him. And not by compassion. By you. Either threatening. Or claiming. Because what is the result? Is opposition. Because the nature of man. Is to oppose. So. Now we make a meditation. Relax. Completely. Start from the toes. The legs. The thighs. The abdomen. Feel. Your body. But completely relaxed. Not with tension. Start breathing. Deeply. Feeling the lower part of your abdomen. First. And then the lungs. Then emptying. The abdomen first. And then the lungs. Start with three beats. All beats. It is the beats of your heart, yes? I beat. In breathing. Out. In breathing. Out. In breathing. Out. In breathing. Out. In breathing. Out. You do it when you are alone. For five minutes. Without any other thoughts. If thoughts are coming to you. Take them away. Just concentrate. In the lungs and the abdomen. You are feeling. Not with air. But with etheric vitality also. Later you will just see it. With visualization. Now. In breathing four beats. And out breathing another four beats. Start. Out breathing. In breathing. Out breathing. In breathing. Out. In. Out. Do it the next day. The four beats. For five minutes. Now five beats. Start. Out. In. Out. In. Out. Do it the other day. Again for five minutes. You must train yourself. Comfortable. To breathe. And feel the lungs and the abdomen. Now six. Start. Out. In. Out. In. Out. In. Now. This kind of breathing. You should get accustomed to it. And then after the course of time. You will find which is the most comfortable for you. For the work to do. I prefer the four beatings. For the beginning. And later the six beatings. Don't do any other breathing exercises. You find in yoga books. They are dangerous. Just holding the nostrils. Breathing. And do all that. Many who are practicing them. Have succeeded to break down their nervous system. So. These are the safe ways. Of breathing. For future work. Of meditation. Concentration. These ways of breathing. Later. Of course. With visualization. You will see in breathing. The vitality. As light entering. In your body. And when you take out the other air. The vitality remains. Only the air. Comes out. Then in breathing again. You load. Your body. Which is the etheric double of your body. With this vitality. And see it. Because the seeker of the truth. Has more complicated. Exercises to do. With the breathing. And how to load. The etheric double. With more and more vitality. And then. By using the colors. To give qualities. To this etheric vitality. So. Start learning. How to breathe properly. Elementals Part 1 In the absolute infinite beingness God, apart from its self-sufficiency, there is also the will-pleasure to express itself in itself as his total wisdom. This will-pleasure causes the emanation from itself of the mind. There was never a time the total wisdom of the infinite beingness was not expressed, and there will never be any time in which the absolute beingness will not express itself as phenomena of life using his divine plan. Now, the time the absolute beingness reflects itself in itself, which was always the absolute beingness, is the locus. The time the absolute beingness expresses itself dynamically, using the mind as energy in its creativeness, the absolute infinite beingness is the Holy Spirit. We have the absolute infinite beingness in too much of being and existing. Now, the mind. The mind is everywhere, in various degrees of vibrations. The human intelligence can understand the mind as formless super-substance, as substance, as ether, and as matter. So, everything existing is made of the mind. The mind is not God, but it's holy. So, a human being, what's a human being? An entity using a material body and the other bodies, is using the mind subconsciously. Now, the mind being everywhere, a super-substance, is ready to take forms. A fellow, someone, seeing something, even before thinking about it, this creates an elemental. Now, an elemental is a form made of mind. Everything that is interesting to us, drawing our attention and occupying our thoughts, is creating an elemental. An elemental has always a form. Without a form, nothing can exist. So, shall we say that everything existing in the material world are materialized elementals of the Archangels? Everything has a form. Yes. So, everything around us having a form is an elemental. Now, this elemental has its own life because the mind is living. But what kind of life? This is something we must study. So, every elemental has a form. Every wish, wish, every emotion, every thought by a human being creates an elemental having a form. If the human being is not making the form for the elemental by his or her thought and desire, the elemental gets a form according to its nature. The forms of the elementals of evil, of weaknesses, of hatred, of envy, of enmity, they have terrible forms. And if a man could see them, he would be terrified himself by what he is doing subconsciously. Sometimes people see these elementals thinking they are dreaming and they are terrible nightmares. So, all the elementals have a form according to their nature or according to our visualization. They have a life of their own. They have intelligence. This intelligence is according to the intelligence of their creator or of the ones who revitalize them. So, these elementals are active on the aura of the etheric double of a human being. They are active. If they are de-energized, they enter in the mind-cosmic consciousness, inactive, to the group which is vibrating according to their vibration. So, we have groups, many groups, in our atmosphere, in the psychical plane and in the ethical plane, groups. We have a group of stealing, of adultery, of gambling, of alcoholism, and of many, many other things. These are group elementals which are everywhere. So, the elementals, a fellow de-energizes, enters in the relative group elemental, tormented in the cosmic consciousness. You say, but all those elementals have the same strength, stealing. It might be something very serious, it might be just not very serious, stealing. That elemental gets a place in the group elemental according to its strength and purpose. The same thing with the elementals of adultery, of drinking, of gambling. So, when a fellow vibrates in its psychical body, to a certain degree of that elemental, it draws from the group elemental an elemental sleeping just to the same vibrations of his vibration. Then, he's revitalizing that elemental. That elemental enters in his aura, if that's an intense desire or strong emotion, they enter in the etheric table of the psychical body and are reflected on the etheric table of the material body, even taking a form in the noetical body. So, as a human being has a material body, his etheric table, a psychical body, his etheric table, and a noetical body, and his etheric table, an elemental has a noetical table, a noetical form, a psychical table, the same form in psychical substance, and a form in the ethereal world, remaining on the aura of the fellow who either creates it or is revitalizing it. The elementals, 90% of them, do not possess a material body, but they can be materialized, because our etheric table is ether matter. In certain circumstances, they are materialized, and they can be seen by people with their material life, though they are not visible, these elementals, the so-called negative body elementals, created by bad action. They have such great strength in them to create disasters on the material plane, not visible, but sometimes terrible. These elementals, many times, are causing accidents. Now, an elemental, apart from its form, its strength, and the purpose in it, has a radiation. The elemental has a certain form in a certain place, but the radiation is going sometimes kilometers away from the elemental. Now, what these radiations have in them, not the purpose the elemental was revitalized, but the character and the nature of the element, be it good or evil, is something I have observed myself. During the national day, many people, Greeks, have just their celebration, trumpets and drums, parodies. They create an elemental, call it Greek national elemental, but at the same time, this elemental vibrates, covering the whole island, and maybe further. What it makes, this vibration? Exciting the same feeling to the Turkish Cypriots, even to the Turks in Turkey, they are not very far away, to the Armenians, to others, and just they have that excitement, that national feeling, which means that everybody influences the environment around him. These kinds of elementals are clashing, because the Greek national elemental and the Turkish national elemental are not coinciding in their purpose. They are causing evil, which means the evil fights evil. Now about the good elementals, so-called good elementals. There are certain days of celebration, like Christmas, Easter, the celebrations about the saint, there are services in the church, because these elementals get the form of the saint, they are just honoring. Do saints exist? Yes, definitely they exist. They are super-consciousness around the planet, and when those who are called faithful to them, create such an elemental, those super-intelligences are using it. The Virgin Mary is using such elementals. Christ is using these elementals, even presenting what people are calling miracles, curing people. So it is the super-intelligences, again, and actually it is not the hand, it is the mind behind it. So the good elemental is the hand. Necessary to do something. Now, when Greek Orthodox, or Catholics in Cyprus, are just making their mass and celebration, the vibration exists, it excites in the Turkish, in the Muslims, their prayers to Allah, or to other people, just praying to their own deity, which means good is strengthening what is good. So, we know what are now the elementals, having a and radiating their nature. How long is this radiation? We said sometimes some kilometers. If they are very strong, many kilometers. And certain elementals, as Christmas, Easter, and such celebrations, they are covering the whole planet. The radiation exists always. Even when an elemental is dis-energized, the vibration in the group elemental of its kind exists always. So, getting an elemental from the group elemental, soon we vibrate according to this rate of vibration, we vibrate in this radiation, through that radiation, that elemental comes in Aurora. So, around us now, on the planet, in the planet, many kilometers around the planet, where is the so-called Psychical World? There are this group elementals of desires and emotions. The vibrations are existing, whether the elementals are dormant, inactive, or not. So, these elementals are affecting only those, good or evil, who vibrate according to their frequency of vibrations. No good man can be influenced by evil elementals or radiation. But sometimes, what you call bad people, are influenced by the good elementals and the good radiation. And I repeat again, evil attacks evil, and good is strengthening good. The light is stronger than the darkness. Now, what these elementals can do? When a fellow starts vibrating to the rate of their vibration, that fellow, being under the influence of those radiations, is attracting an elemental of that nature, which is attached on his aura, of his etheric double of the material body, on the etheric double of his Psychical Body, and on the etheric double of his Nautical Body, that means, on his personality. Now, what is the personality of a human being? His material body, with its etheric double, his Psychical Body, with its etheric double, that means, his desires, intentions, and emotions, and his Nautical Body, with the thoughts that person is doing, reasonable or not reasonable. This is the composition of the present day personality of a human being. And I said that the personality of a man is not his ego, spirit, self, because the personality is changing, his material body is changing, his emotional body is changing, and his Nautical Body is changing, but the spirit, soul, ego, life is not changing, it's everlasting, being in eternity, and existing from time to time. After serious research of the truth, one finds this great truth, it is entangling himself from the personality in expression. His or her ego is taking with it the nature of the personality, which is life. So our ego-self, creating a time and place personality, carries with him again that selfhood of the personality, which is itself leaving behind the events in time and place, but having in it the memory, the lessons and the experience, which means that the spirit-soul-ego, being the same with the spirit-soul-ego of the permanent personality, is expressing itself in the time and place-space personality. The time and place-space personality is continuously changing, storing in itself, which is the permanent personality, all the experiences and the lessons received. Shall we say that the permanent personality is the backbone of the present-day personality? As life. So the selfhood even of the present-day personality, life, is the selfhood of the permanent personality, and the selfhood of the spirit-soul-ego. We don't have three selves, one self, the I-ness. When I see that I-ness in the place and time personality, or if I see it in the permanent personality, or in the spirit-soul-ego personality, it's one self. I am I. That I-ness is immortal, whether it is in the present-day personality, in the permanent personality, or in the spirit-soul-ego personality. So what is going to be eternal events for our selfhood? So our selfhood. And we can find it after we get the upper hand of controlling the time and place-self against ourselves, freeing it from the influences of time and place. After being able to know and control our emotions, after being able now to use the mind constructively, and not slave of the emotions and the desires. So practicing what we say introspection, meditation, and concentration, which is the self. And the self is Mary and George, until it disentangles itself from the so-called egoistic personality, realizing that that's not the self, but a time and place expression, awkwardly or not. So there is only one self. Now, Joshua the Christ said, the perishable should become imperishable, and the ever-changing will become immortal. Now, looking at this statement, it sounds stupid. This quote is characterized even by some clergymen, because they don't understand the meaning of it. The perishable, phenomenically, but imperishable in a sense, will become again imperishable. And the immortal, your changing, will become immortal, will reach to the self-realization. It's explained. We are not going to become something we are not. So we say Mary and Helen and George and Alexis are immortal. Yes, as self and an I-ness, they are immortal. But as an expression, desires, way of understanding, way of living, way of thinking, they are not. The nature of everyone of us, our selfhood, our I-ness, is God. Our expressions are in the world's only existence. And of course, they cannot last for a long time. So everyone should find his immortal self, even in his present depersonality. Many will say, how? By trying to get the control of your life as a phenomenon, by controlling the sum total of your elementals composing the personality. Because the quality of each one's personality is the quality of the elementals composing it. So our personality is the sum total of the elementals. We create or re-energize using the mind. So, finding a self as our self, who now expresses its divine nature, which is the will, and start now checking, trying to understand and to control desires and emotions. Start to study the nature of the mind as a super substance he is using, either to serve the desires and the emotions or use it to control emotions and desires. In the course of time, a burning question mark is presented in itself. Who am I who can be? Who am I who can control the material body? Who am I who can use now thought, the super substance of the mind, and expressing my will and decision? I can change everything. So one finds out what he or she is. I didn't say who, I didn't say who, I said what. Because we will find that it isn't he or she, because their self has no sex. Elementals Part 2 The Tzadukis, Tzadukis, a sect of the Hebrew Israelites, during the time of Joshua the Christ, came to Christ and asked Him and said, Lord, just amongst us there was a woman, who was married to a certain person, he died, and the second son got her as his wife, the second husband has died, and the third one got her as his wife. There were seven male persons in the family, and all of them had taken that woman as their wife. The Tzadukis did not believe in the resurrection of the soul. Now in the after death life, this woman, to whom she will belong? Of the seven brothers, and Christ said, in the kingdom of the heavens, they are not marrying or getting married, but there the self is like the angels in heaven. He spoke clearly about the self. So the self, the I-ness, has no sex. How shall we find our self? We are a man or a woman, living a certain environment, in a certain place, in the present time. Now, we hear to a name given us, and we are influenced by the circumstances all around us. We are shaken by desires and emotions, we are tortured by thoughts, entangled with desires and emotions, and we feel unhappy and unsatisfied. Sometimes we are crying, we are getting angry, we express a very bad temper, we try just to enforce to others our will, whether we succeed to that or not, we are causing pain to others also, and to ourselves, to find out that we are all the time unhappy. Then we start reasoning, who am I, who, in the course of time, I have all these experiences, painful, sometimes pleasing, and that goes on. Who am I? Mary? There are thousands of Marys hearing to that name, and they are not feeling the same thing. So the name has nothing to do. A coincidence. Then, who am I? It's clear. Let me start from the very beginning. I am George. I cast away George. What remains is I am. Now let us think, what is that? I am. I shows my nature. Am shows the way I exist, living. Even if I cast am out, it remains the I, the I-ness. It is necessary to cast out the second word, am. It is impossible to cast away my nature, which is eternal life. Am is not denoting any period of time. And out of necessity, I say, I am I. That I is just counting. That I is the self. So, our self is immortal. It's life itself. It's God. A being, as billions and billions and billions of other beings, immortal, in the everlasting life, in the absolute infinite beingness. Then what's the absolute infinite beingness? The absolute infinite selfhood. Then what's the selfhood? Knowing what I am. And how the absolute infinite beingness knows itself. Because the absolute infinite beingness expresses its total wisdom. So, expresses a will pleasure. And what do we find? Being similar to the absolute infinite beingness, we are expressing a self and a will. Now it depends what's this will? How do we express our nature? Now, for the research. We say that the present day personality, which is the sum total of the elementals we have created or revitalized, and which exists now in the etheric double of our material body, in the psychical body and its etheric double, building for us our hells or our paradises. And in the nautical world, again extending our hells or paradises. Now I know what is our present day personality. A human body, energy, emotions, desires and thoughts. What more can be our present day personality? Plus the I-ness in it. So our personality is the dress we are wearing in time and place. And if we take out these dresses of ours, another coat, a coat or a shirt, we are we. We are not changing. By introspection, one will find it out. But before being able to detach ourselves from our dresses, we must examine them. How do we make them? Are they clean? Dirty? Do we need to clean them? Do we have to check our emotions and make changes in our personality? Because our personality is the sum total of the elementals. Now, in introspection we find that the sum total of the elementals has created around our bodies a new entity, which is the egoism of our present day personality, ruling now. And we make the mistake to think that it is our self. Now, this sum total of the elementals, according to their nature and vibrations, is composing what we say our subconsciousness. And we are always under its influence. Whether we are aware of it or not, we are under the influence of these elementals. So, shall we say that this subconsciousness of ours is our storehouse of something valuable or filthy we are keeping? Keeping things alive now, powerful. Yes, that's it. So, this is the one side of our so-called subconsciousness. A storehouse of the elementals, good and or evil. Having a ruler imposing its obstinacy, not will, on us misleading us that we are that. This is the one side of the subconsciousness. Now, we said that every elemental, apart from its form, has a vibration projecting it around it. So, our subconsciousness has its aura, its vibrations. Now, another side of our so-called subconsciousness, which is our etheric double of our material body, is the storehouse of the etheric vitality. The one side is ruled by the egoism of the personality. But on the other side of our subconsciousness, the storehouse of the etheric vitality is under the orders of the holy archangels of the elements and of the Holy Spirit, Spiritus. So, it is in us. We said that the holy archangels of the elements are building up our bodies. So, we see in our so-called subconsciousness a dirty underground of personality. An ice building, the abode of the archangels and of the Holy Spirit. And now, what is the Christ, the Locus? Who is the Christ, the Locus? Staying or leaving, according to our religion, in the whole subconsciousness of ours. Because the Locus includes in its local selfhood the selves of all of us. Says Yohanan in his Gospel. In Him is life. And life is the light of all men. So, expressing a selfhood ourselves, we are in Him, in the Locus. And, of course, in Joshua the Christ, which is an immaculate ray of the Locus. So, the Church is right, saying that He is shouldering the burdens and the sins of all men. And this is the truth. What is He advising us? He is stronger to shoulder the burdens of the weaker. This is the difference between Christianity and all other systems of religions, especially the Hindu religion. So, in our subconsciousness, in the dirty underground, the sum total of the elementals, composing our personality, is ruling the egoism. And the Locus Christ there is trying to wake us up and tell us that you are gods and sons of the Almighty. You are not unhappy creatures of time and place. And He is also, in the main building, who are the Holy Archangels, being in Him also, and the Holy Spirit, which is in Him also, expecting us to leave the underground and live in a better place. Read in the Bible the parable of the lost son. It is clear. And what did Joshua the Christ say to His disciples? In the home of my Father, the Kingdom of the Heavens, which is in you, there are many mansions, and I go to prepare a place for you. Or I go to prepare a place for you. So the sense of place is in the Kingdom of the Heavens, which is in us. One should understand the real teaching of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. But who is, not was, Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, an Immaculate Ray of the Locust, who willingly humanized and materialized a self in a young man, who had lived as a human being thirty-three years only, had been crucified by men, knowing He was the Locust, not yet being thirty years of age. He said, before the foundation of the world, before mountains and earth existed, I am. He finished. I am. Which means, what is He now? He is the Locoic Selfhood, including in Himself the selves of every one of us. So we are in Him, and He is in us. He is also the Lord of the dirty underground. We make dirty, which is our subconsciousness. Now, it says, the King, which means after He entered in His Kingdom, His Divine Kingdom, yet keeping His human selfhood, what did He say? He said to some, come near me, you blessed ones, because when you saw me hungry, you gave me to eat. When you saw me thirsty, you gave me to drink. When you saw me naked, you gave Him something to put on. And so on. He said, Sir, when we had seen you hungry and we gave you to eat, or thirsty, or naked, He said, in so much as you have done to one of these least brethren of mine, you have done it to me. Because He is in every one of us. And we are in Him. Whatever one is doing to another human being, He is doing it to him. Now, what do you think? It was the cup. The last moment before being arrested. He had asked His Father, if it is His will, to remove it from Him. The crucifixion of His body? No. He predicted it many times in the Bible to His disciples. And He said, for this moment I came. I am telling you, the flesh is nothing. It is the Spirit which is giving life. I prove it. He said, I can lay down my life and take it. Because I am an immortal self. He said, I will be crucified. And I will rise. Even my material body. Because He said, I am the resurrection. And He had proved it. So, what is Christ, the Josiah the Christ, doing now? Working for the resurrection of every one of us as gods to wake us up from the slumber of time and place. So, Christ is in every one of us and we are in Him. We'll ask Him just to help us clean that underground which is our subconsciousness. So, to know the quality of our subconsciousness, we must start studying one by one our desires and emotions and weaknesses and try to clean them. Clean them. How? Disenergizing them. Because the substance by which they are made is holy. It is the mind. So, we have just to make the substance clean again. And sooner or later this will take place. The mind super substance cannot remain a filthy, bad-smelling mud. power enslaving the thoughts to the emotions and to the desires. As water and earth we created a bad-smelling mud. But a higher principle which is heat. Mind risen. By heat it will be evaporation. And the filthy water in the mud sooner or later will become the dew on the leaves of the trees. And the matter the earth will be clean and pure again. So, courage. Ask Him to be the heat and the light in us to help us transform this dirty mud which is our subconscious to see the water again as dew on the leaves and the flowers. And the earth pure. Now, boldly we should enter in our subconscious. Start checking. Finding and examining every elemental in it. And by using the heat the willpower and the light. Understanding. Reason. Disenergize all those elementals. Making thought mind pure. And make weaknesses vanish. Use the heat. Cautiously. He. We. Which is love. The heat which will make the miracle to transform the muddy bad smelling just that mud our hatreds our jealousies our enmities our wishes of attacking and causing harm to others can be overcome by love. We cannot say that other fellow men being in Christ and Christ is in them are our enemies. How did Christ Joshua the Christ had proved this great love? He said to his disciples they will arrest me. And the high priests and the scribes the high priests and the scribes will strike me will spit at me will matrid me will give me to the Gentiles to the Romans. They will crucify me and kill me. He said that. Now we go to Jerusalem for that moment. He was a perfect human being. Just see what he suffered. Let us follow his martyrdom. He didn't complain. He didn't get angry. Serene and calm. He was carrying his cross. Just imagine nailing him on the cross. They threw him a crown. A body full of blood and wounds. When he was on the cross they were mocking him. What were his last words? Father, forgive them. They don't know what they are doing. Finish. To your hands I commend my spirit. Was he God or not? Could a human being do that? He has proved he was God. Even as Joshua Emmanuel the Godman. He had asked his father to move that cup of bloodshed. How much bloodshed was in the past? Lots of blood. In his name. The name of God. And now even. So have in your mind whatever the one is doing to the other is doing it to him. And he knows and he feels the pain of everybody that he says to his father forgive them. They do not know what they are doing. And repeating it just seeing the weaknesses of human beings killing others make others suffer. It doesn't mean that this is making us free from our responsibilities. We should love one another. If we are to be called Christians. Some do not like to have this name. Never mind. If we are to be called human and not beasts we have to love one another. Now. We'll make a minute. Relax completely. Christ is here with us. Where there are two or three gathered in my name I am amongst them. And those who can feel him now I can feel him and I can see him. In every one of you. And everywhere. Now. Calm completely your material body and thank him for giving you the material body to live in it. And thank him for giving you the mind as the light to enlighten your life. See in front of you someone with whom you have problems and troubles. In the world you will have troubles. He said. But rejoice. I have won the war. And you can do it. Overcome weaknesses and hatreds and enmities. See. See people with whom you have differences happy. Don't allow the equals to come and interfere. See that there is a sun in your heart. Reflecting light. It's he. In him is life and the life is the light of men. Reflect his light. On the face of the people of the person you have differences. See that light of your heart. His love. Make that person now happy. Smiling. Tell him. You love him or you love her. Bring another person. Now. You have certain difficulties with that person. Keep from your heart his light and your light. See happy faces. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards other human beings. Now bring persons that you love. Tell them so. And tell them not to allow differences. To alter this love. Maybe the devil as your personal egoist may appear now. Chase that egoist away. Gods are not slaves of egoism. Or personally. Gods are love. Now make your heart shine as a sun of love. Spread your love everywhere. Stylianos Atteshlis Daskalos - The Etheric Double of Our Material Body 1 -13 02 1990 Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. God of love, life and mercy, enlighten our minds to understand that you are truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards our fellow men. Amen. Today, we will speak more about the so-called etheric double. The etheric double of our material body. Of course, everything is mine. The etheric double is mine. Why do we say etheric double? Is the etheric double not a separate body from our material body? No. We have three bodies with their etheric doubles. The material body with its etheric double. We have our psychic body with its etheric double. And our mind body, with its etheric double again. This etheric double is the link between the bodies. The etheric double is material. Matter is not always visible. The air is not visible. Yet, the air is matter. So, in the etheric double, we have the three most subtle natures of matter. We have seven kinds of matter. Before, we can consider them tangible and solid. The other three is the etheric double. This is what we call the etheric vitality. So, the etheric double is matter substance. It's matter again. Because all the materializations are done by the etheric vitality. Materialization means becoming matter. And dematerialization means something solid, material, to become energy. So, shall we say the three natures of matter substance is the etheric double? Exactly. So, the etheric double, we said, is the mould in which and by which, as it is mind, as it is etheric vitality, the material body is built and kept in good health. And kept in good health means continuous being in good health. That nature of the etheric double, we call it creative ether. This creative ether, that kind of vitality, is under the authority of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Archangels. The builders of the bodies, not only of the material body. So, the builders of the bodies, the material body, the psychical body, and the neurotic body, are working through the etheric doubles of the bodies. And extend their work in the bodies. So, we have the etheric double of our material body. In form, the etheric double of our material body is exactly as it is the material body. Because as it is the mould in which the material body is built, there cannot be any other form. But what is the form of our material body? In time and in space, in occupying space. It starts from spermatozoa, pregnancy, birth, growing and growing and growing in time, changing completely our form, the shape of the material body. The change is on the etheric double, and then it follows the change on the material body. How is the etheric double composed of? We said etheric vitality. But what are the qualities of this etheric vitality? To make into form, what is behind the form? Which means the law in existence. We said our etheric double is the mould in which our etheric body is built. How it is built? Each cell in the material body has its etheric double. Each blood cell has its etheric double. Each part and organ in the material body has its etheric double. And then the whole body has its own etheric double, which is the collection of all those etheric doubles, moulds, forms, creating each cell, each atom, each organ in the material body. So just imagine what work is done for the building of a material body. The holy archangels, workers in the bodies, are working with their archangelic super- consciousness. Super-consciousness means at the same time in many points and in many kinds of work. All the archangels, the Michael, the Gabriel, the Raphael, the Uriel, the Cherubs, the Cherubs, under the supervision of God, the Absolute Beingness, as the Holy Spirit. So our material body and all the other bodies are more holy spiritual, what happens to the personality then? Are we not holy spiritual? The material bodies are holy spiritual, and holy spiritual, but mainly we are logoic. That's why we are very different from our material bodies. Our material bodies are not ourselves. The material body has a sub-consciousness and a consciousness of its own, completely independent from our sub-consciousness. Consciousness and more our self- consciousness. The material bodies are not self-conscious. They obey the workers and the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the material body and its etheric double, under our command. Our command, that means us. Self-consciousnesses, for the time being, no. The material bodies and the etheric doubles, very little known to our present day personality, are not under the command of the present day personality of a man. Definitely they are not. Will some time be under the command of the present day personality? Yes. If the present day personality would change its self now in time and space, and from egoism finds herself as the sole self-consciousness, yes. The bodies would be under the command of the entity or the present day personality living in those bodies. We are living in those bodies, yet we are not our bodies, and the common man is not in command of these bodies or knows anything about them. Even orthodox aliens now start knowing something of the functioning of the etheric doubles in the material bodies. Even scientists today, doctors of medicine, do not know about the existence of the etheric double. They say, yes, energy, but what is energy? Far from comes the energy. And I had a doctor of medicine, an Englishman, who taught me. He says, of course, sir, the material body creates that what you call etheric double, which energy, the brains create thought, I said, what is it? The material brains create thought, and the liver, he says, secretes bile. I said, yes, of course you know. No. They still have to learn more and more yet. So, we know that our etheric doubles are the morphs in which and by which the bodies, the material body, the so-called psychological body and the neurotic body, are built and kept in good order and are going on growing and living. So, the life of the material body depends on its etheric double. And if the etheric double withdraws from the material body, the material body tends to decay, to dissolve itself, not to die, because they are not subjecting us to death, but constant change. So, when one is living the material body, every night everybody is living the material body, in what we call unconscious exosomatosis. And others are living the material body, in what we call conscious, a little self-conscious exosomatosis. Do they take with them the etheric double? No. The etheric double cannot leave the material body for a single moment, because when the etheric double leaves the material body, the material body tends to dissolve itself, to decay. What do we take then with us in exosomatosis? We are with our psychical body and its etheric double, the neurotic body and its etheric double, in exosomatosis, living in what we call the sub-planes of the psychical world. And of course later we can leave behind even the psychical body, and be only with our neurotic body, our mind body, in the neurotic world. Living the same way as we live the material body, lying in bed, sleeping, to leave our psychical bodies. So, the material body, during what we call sleep, sleeping, or in exosomatosis, conscious exosomatosis, is lying in the bed, on rest, and the etheric double in it, working. When we are out of our material body, in a phenomenal nothingness, or annihilation, the body is living, we are breathing, the heart is beating. The parts of life are in the material body, because in it is the etheric double. So, the etheric double, as a whole, as a form, never leaves the material body, especially in its nature as the creative it has. But we said that the etheric double has other qualities, besides the creativeness of the material body. And we know it as kinetic ether, aesthetic or feeling-giving ether, and imprinting ether. And we have explained each nature of this functioning of the etheric double, which is the proof that really we are not mistaken. And we know these things to be real, because we can use them, make use of them, and be sure of their nature and existence. Otherwise, we simply can't be sure of the existence of something, we cannot prove it is real. Using the imprinting ether, in visualization and in making what we call elementals, projecting elementals, and studying their nature, their strength, the existence of them, we shouldn't be sure that they exist. And if we are not doing conscious, at the beginning subconscious, use of them we are making. But we should make conscious use of these qualities of our etheric double, so that we will make use of it later as self-conscious use. Then we are absolutely sure. But even by making conscious use of these qualities of our etheric double, we are sure. So we will, by certain exercises, get the skill and get the habit of making daily, not daily, every moment, conscious use of these qualities of our etheric double, which we call kinetic ether, aesthetic ether, feeling-giving ether, and the imprinting ether. Do we make conscious use of the imprinting ether? Building consciously what we call elementals? Most people don't. They are building elementals subconsciously, not to say unconsciously, without distinction of consciousness, creating what we call evil elementals. So, subconsciously, everyone is creating, projecting these kinds of elementals, without seeing them, knowing them, yet under their influence all the time. And because they are not seen to the common people, these elementals, this is what renders them more dangerous, because they cannot trace them. They are under their influence, but they are not in a state of checking them. I mean the common man. Projecting, creating what we call elementals, as Christ taught them, meaningless, empty, and reading the Bible, the New Testament, we see what these elementals were doing. In a case, a man possessed by a collective elemental, calling itself legion, was throwing the man on the street with an epileptic fit. We find these things in the New Testament. We find them even now in the society. And a psychotherapist, a psychiatrist, should know the nature of these elementals definitely before being in a state to make just a good therapy on certain people. Unless he knows the nature of these elementals, never mind that he cannot see them, he is not a clairvoyant, yet he should know the nature of them, just to deal with them, to make a serious, what I call, psychoanalysis. That's why most of the psychiatrists and psychotherapists are not successful in their work, because they are working blindly. They don't know what these elementals are. But, do they know them? In them, so that they will recognize them and know them. In the others? So every psychiatrist and psychotherapist should know the nature of these elementals, composing his own present-day personality. If he cannot control these elementals in him, how he will be able to control elementals in a patient? But is it possible not to do good work before becoming clairvoyant? That means seeing. Of course, that's not necessary. To know the nature of these elementals by their behavior is not necessary to be a psychotherapist, a clairvoyant. Though, if he develops clairvoyancy in him, that's much, much better. He knows what he is doing now, and he can deal with them with authority, ordering them, seeing them, tracing them. He can just control them. Christ is controlling them, ordering them, seeing them. So, clairvoyance is most desired. And a researcher, after the truth, or a psychotherapist, or a psychiatrist, to have it, it will be for him a blessing. But, even before that, he can know their nature by knowing their nature in himself, studying them. They know the nature of these elementals in the patients. So, we have spoken about these elementals, and we will speak much, much more in the future, because this is not a subject to be exhausted. It's an exhaustible subject, the subject of the elementals, of describing these elementals. It is as difficult as to describe the personalities of human beings, as these elementals are composing of the present-day personality of a human being. But even so, we can classify them and study them. So, how are the elementals created and projected? Since we said that the etheric double can never leave the material body, and that material body leaves, how are these elementals created and projected? By the etheric double, of course. The whole etheric double composing the whole material body and the organs in the material body as created ether cannot leave the body. some of its substance, let us call it so, is the stuff by which these elementals are born and projected. And it is in the etheric double. So, part of the etheric double is the birthplace of the elementals. And especially in the center of energy, in the root of the nose, between the two eyes. In this center of energy, the Hindus call it chakras. But why should we use Hindu names? We call it centers of energy. How are these centers assembled? Like discs rotating, moving around. The speed they are turning is giving them the quality and, of course, the ability of the present-day personality to use them. So, the speed they are moving is not the same in all human beings. It seems that every one of these centers of vitality, of energy, coincides with an organ in the material body. So, it has two qualities. The energizing and keeping good life that organ and also serving in the economy of the whole etheric double. Of course, a clairvoyant can just see and distinguish this work of the etheric centers. Now, how many are these etheric centers? Hundreds. But, no need to know them all. The fingerprint is the result of the rotation of these centers. So, we have in every tip, of every finger in the hands and in the feet one of these centers. Little, very little discs moving, creating the fingerprints. We have in the palms, we have in the ankles, on the toes, on the knees. These are of not much importance to the common man or even to these psychotherapists. What are the main centers? Bigger discs. The one is at the base of the spine and this is under the orders directly of Raphael and Gabriel. In your testament, it's mentioned as the sword of Michael moving around the center of fire. We call it the sacred fire. That's at the base of the spine. The disc behind the body. Yet, radiations towards the genitals. The functioning of this center on the material body is just energizing the genitals. Another center is in the belly and we call it the solar plexus. When a glaboyant sees that center, it is a radiating sun of various colors. But the development of the present-day personality is giving, in reality, the real colors of the solar plexus. When that solar plexus is only under the dominion of Raphael, it's violet color. Of Michael, red color. Of Gabriel, bluish color. Or combination of these colors. But all the time radiating like a sun. That's why they call it, the mystics, solar plexus. What's the material? Organs coinciding with this center. All the glands joined with nerves in them and around them is that glow and behind them the disc rotating. I have never seen in two men the same colors of their solar plexus myself. But these colors are giving the good health in the material body. You see radiating from these discs no matter what's the color, you see usually a greenish emerald color which means good health in the body. This solar plexus is under the orders of Gabriel who set this sacred fire the Hindus call it Kundalini is a red or deep violet under the orders of Raphael and or Michael. But the solar plexus of course is under the orders of all the archangels but dominates there the archangel Gabriel. So I have another of not much importance center of energy the place of the liver. The color depends on the health of the body. There are dominants sometimes Gabriel sometimes Michael sometimes Raphael. Three of them are working yet from time to time we see one of these archangels dominating in its core the liver is the workshop of the blood. It is the combined work of the archangels to give the human body red warm blood. So this center is of much importance. Another center of energy have it on the spleen. Again the same archangels are working and dominating from time to time. This also is center of cleaning the blood. So these two centers are for the blood and the human body. I have another center now the most important center for us human beings. This is the center on the heart. This center on the heart is supervised by the absolute beingness as the locus. There we are expressing ourselves as spirits. Ego self-consciousnesses and soul self- consciousnesses through the heart. Who are the archangels working there? All of them. And the Holy Spirit but mainly it is the locus. Christ in one uses his heart to express love. To give his heart to the Lord of love that means to the locus. But unfortunately there are certain elementals there of egoism we might call them devils distorting love into hatred because hatred is distorted love. You hate somebody because that somebody either you loved him or you still love him and not satisfying your egoism because if that is not so why not forget him? Why hate him? And some call hatred wounded love. So about this center in the heart we will speak more because that concerns our present day personality. Our present day personality is resented by the heart. And God Christ says in the New Testament Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Through the heart we will see God. Or the infinite beingness. So for us human beings the heart is the most sacred center conserving us. Another two centers are under our arms in these cavities. For them very little can be mentioned. Ancient Greeks were using the cartidges that means two snakes in a pole. The heads of these snakes coincide with these cavities under the arms. I'm afraid I cannot speak more about these centers. And how the serpent of Moses that lives in the spinal cord has to devour them the two snakes of the Egyptians. The Old Testament is symbolic. So another center is the thyroid. It's a small center of course. This thyroid resembles a ball of tennis. Yet inside this ball of tennis rotates a disc. Its color is orange. This center is the purification of the blood. The liver is for the blood. The spleen is doing much work to give to the blood certain qualities. But the purification of the blood means killing of the microbes. And the germs is in the thyroid. So the thyroid is so much important. The orthodox scientists now know that the whole blood passes through the thyroid every 13 minutes. Others say 14. Others say 11. It doesn't matter. Maybe it's not the same for persons. Why? There the functioning of the thyroid is to kill microbes and germs. Another center of importance is at the root of the nose. And one over the head. These centers are to give the present-day personality. I would say clairvoyance. Seeing anything in distance and even in time in the past. Because these also are qualities one should have to develop. It's not only the opening of the center. Enough. One has to work and develop this skill. The center above the head. It is just to be able to have conscious exosomatosis. Unless one opens this center he cannot have conscious exosomatosis and in coming back to bring the memory of his experiences in the psychical plane. So, is that the only center of exosomatosis? Or waking us up in what you call the psychical plane? No. Concentration and meditation in the solar plexus can give you a kind of subconscious exosomatosis but one should be very, very careful. Unless his present personality vibrates the right way that may be the door and the gate towards the hell and the man will face nightmares. So one should be very, very careful before opening the gates. There is another fear of other elementals or even what we call evil spirits to get control of that center. Then we call that obsession. When an elemental is obsessing a man that elemental possesses even the human mind, the human brains. And we call these fixed ideas. Now, possession. Certain entities of departed ones who are not considered to be beneficial to humanity and good are banished to the moon. For certain periods the etheric or rather the psychical counterpart of the moon and the earth approach and touch. And these banished spirits can come back to the earth but cannot stay there on the atmosphere of the earth for long because they have to go back. They are thrown back to the moon. But during those periods they can get entrance through the chakras, solar plexus, liver and spleen wristly chakras. They gain entrance in the body and in that personality. What will be the result? Feet of epilepsy. You see these people throwing themselves on the ground and just having spasms. When it happens that you find somebody there on the ground what you do simply touch with your fingers the place of the spleen or of the liver. Your magnetism will force it depart and go. No need to push there but touch with your fingers. Stylianos Atteshlis Daskalos - The Etheric Double of Our Material Body 2 -13 02 1990 So, when you see an epileptic, touch with your fingers on the body where is the liver or the spleen and that entity has to leave the body. So, now we know about the centers, the main centers. I will mention now the big incised centers, the smaller incised centers and the very small centers. The big incised centers is at the base of the spine, what we call the sacral fire, covered by ruffle and microbe. Another big center is the solar plexus. Another big center is the heart. Another big center is at the root of the nose and another one above the head as a disc. These are the big centers which give us our qualities, the qualities of the present and the personality as subconsciousness, consciousness and self-consciousness at the beginning, later giving, what we call, self-superconsciousness, which is not indetectable, but extends to the other bodies. The smaller incised are the spleen, the liver, under the arms. We have them four. And two above the shoulders. For this, I am not allowed to speak more. These side centers are centers of energy for the material body, while the central column, the symbol of life, is what concerns our present-day personality. So we said the colors depend upon the development of that present-day personality. Where is our present-day personality living? In the body. Now we shall just try to understand what is our present-day personality. What is our so- called present-day personality? Is our present-day personality really our self? Or we make the mistake that it is our self, as we make the mistake that we are our bodies. Our so-called present-day personality is the sum total of the elementals, who have created, projected, and had them back. Where? In our bodies, definitely. And our present-day personality is in the material body, in the so-called psychical body, and in the lower mind body. We are using subconsciously the three bodies. The material body, we know. The psychical body, its vibrations, the quality of the vibrations, is what is giving us our desires, and our emotions, and our expressions. So everyone is using the psychical body subconsciously, without knowing even of its existence. So our psychical body, in manifestation, are our emotions, and our desires, our weaknesses, our passions, all that compose our psychical body. Not in form, but in quality. So have this in your mind. What about our neurotic body? Our lower mental body? That's also part of our present- day personality. The way we are thinking, how are we thinking? Hot use of our mind, super-substance, we are doing. And I said in a lesson that we make the mind slave of the emotions, of the passions, of the desires. We make very bad use of the mind. And all the elementals created in this way are what we call the elementals' desire-thought elementals. They are mentioned in the Bible by Christ as evil spirits. What we should do after using the mind properly as a reason, we as present-day personality, to study and check our emotions, our desires, the whole behavior, hatred, enmity, feeling of aggressiveness, revenge, and all those qualities of our psychical body. How do we do that now? By making better use of the mind. Instead of making the mind slave of the emotions, and how to serve for the accomplishment of the emotions and the desires, now we check through the mind. We, that means checking whom? Ourselves, the egos, who present themselves as ourselves, while we are not that kind of force, self. So we now get the control and we use the mind as the means to know, to check, to criticize, to find the nature of our emotions, that means of the elementals already in our subconsciousness. And we come to what conclusion now? That our present-day personality was composed of those elementals, and I was making the mistake to think that I am that present-day personality. Then what do I find? That present-day personality is all the time changing, as the material bodies are changing. Yet I am not changing. What is changing in time and in place or space cannot be myself, my real self. But I make the mistake that I am that personality, and that personality is just the thought of being the body, a name, sex, and the way of feeling and thinking. But checking all that now, studying all that now, I find that I am in a changed center of self- consciousness, able to exercise my divine quality as will to know, learn, and control. And that's not changing. So, I classify my lower self now in two classes. The changeable in time and space, and I find that time is an illusion, Zeit is eine Illusion, creating shadows in what we call time as an illusion, which is the past. I have now the present moment, which will be the past after a few moments. And what is to come as the present moment, which is undefined, and we call it future. What do you find in that? There is also a reality behind these illusions, past, present, and future. The eternal now. Eternity. Eternity is not an illusion. And what else I found by my research, and everybody will find it, that apart from the illusions of time and space, we are the self, the real self, not egoism, which is the creation of time and space, since time and space are illusions, that means egoism is an illusion, because egoism is changing every time. So, now we start understanding who we are. Now, I see the composition of our present day personality as it is today. The backbone is eternal. It's God. It's myself. But the backbone of it is I. And then, the other expressions, is the present day personality in its expressions, and quality. The backbone is the same word. I am. The expressions? I am George, Alex, Mary, Alice, that's the expressions. I am God. Or, I am I. The knowledge that I am I, you cannot be a male or a female person. So we find that reality. We are not the personality we thought we were, which was the creation of time and space, which is an illusion. And therefore, that present personality is an illusion. So tell me, how will we come to this conclusion, that we are an illusion? The illusion will prove you that you are an illusion. If you remember your past personalities, before many, many centuries, believing to reincarnation, and you find that now, you are George. But maybe you are Ahmed. Different way of thinking, different emotions, similar, but different. And then, you see, if you can see the whole life you have passed, you say, but, who am I, that person? What common thing do I have with that personality of the past? You may see many, many incarnations. You will see certain similarities in expression, yet many, many differences. And if I put you the question, who am I? Oh, I am George. You are George. Now that you know who you were in the past incarnations, what you are interested about? That behavior in time and space. What was common with those incarnations to you? I am. Good. So you don't care about Ahmed, or Robert, or Marius. And then you find that the past is a kind of dream. But that's not what you'll find. If you just start studying things, you'll find that you, you are you, of yesterday, before yesterday, six months back, a year back, yesterday. What's the reality? That you are you. So even now you can find your present personality, but you have to take off that dress you call personality. A name, and a way of feeling and thinking. Because what really counts is that I-ness, your ego, which is God. Consubstantial with the absolute beingness. Consubstantial with the locus, as manifestation. So, then you find that you are not what you thought you were, but you are something different now. I see many people having a kind of fear. Huge fear. If they have much, and they rely on that much, they have riches, possessions, fame, glory. They feel afraid of losing these things. And believe me, this fear is great. And the result of it is to deprive those persons enjoying what they have. How will you take away this fear? Then there is another kind of fear. The fear of death, of losing yourself. Which self? Your present personality, or your I-ness? What you are interested in. But the present personality, after some years, will be of no interest to you, as it is not of interest to you. Remembrance of a personality which has passed. You never, of course, be interested of your shadow in time and space. What will you be afraid of? Since you are you. That's what will interest you. I am, yes, of course I am, but I am George. I am Mary, if you think you are. You are not that. You are I am I. The self-consciousness being able to express itself and take impressions, in what we call time and space, impressions, illusions, that if somebody will tell you, wake up, stop dreaming. But are we dreaming? What do you think we are? Not dreaming. Life on earth, as it is to say, it's a dream. Nothing more than a dream. As you find out, that all the past, you were dreaming. Sweet dreams, or bitter, painful dreams. But dreams. What should we have now to do? We say we are dreaming. And we find it out with the course of time. In simple course. What are we going to do now? And then somebody will put it, why you are here? Why you came in this life? Why have we been born? Because definitely there must be a purpose behind that. And this is not the present personality, to know it. But you can know it when you find yourself, your real ego, your real self, your real self-consciousness. Then you will know it. Then I get from that, somebody is saying now, do you know it? Yes, I do know it myself. And when you know it, there is no fear about anything. And especially about what we call death. Because death does not exist. What exists is the change. Now, we see behind us this change. I call it a dream. And I say I will classify this dream to two classes. Yet these classes to more pleasing and painful. More pleasing and more painful. Still more, more pleasing, more painful, more desperately painful. What is there wise to do? Dreaming. Now, until we reach the reality, the truth, what is the Wahrheit? What is the truth? We find it again. Do I know the truth? Yes, I know it myself. And everybody will know it someday. This is the truth. To find yourself and know who you are. The self-realization of your ego, self-superconsciousness now. Not simply consciousness. Because what we call it, consciousness is very limited range of expression and of receiving impressions. When self-superconsciousness you are awakened God. I didn't say absolute self- superconsciousness because that's the absolute beingness. Not we. Enough for us to reach what I call self-superconsciousness. This we can do. More? I don't know. So, what is the truth now? Living in the way we are living today. Slaves of emotions, passions, desires, and afraid of losing this or that thing I am calling it mine or the fame. What's the fame? Another illusion. Then I come to another point. What's life? Do you call this life? This kind of dreaming, you call it life. Anyhow, Christ did not call it life. When someone, somebody traced the truth in the words of Christ and said, Ravuni, I want to come and follow you. But my father and mother are living with so many things. They need me. I must be with them. Well, I want to kill them. They pass over, they die, he said. And they never follow me. What Christ told him? Leave the dead buried around dead. You come and follow me. Now, what is calling this kind of life? Death. I call it dreaming, not death. Is dreaming really satisfying us? Nobody can deceive himself to say that anything material can satisfy him. If the desires, the wishes, the emotions are fulfilled, then he feels tired of them. If these feelings are not fulfilled, again he is feeling tired of them, yet of some despair. So, what's left now of the material plane? This kind of dream cannot be bold enough to face the reality, the truth. I tell you, the truth is bitter to the present-day personality, but very, very sweet to the ego. I repeat this. The truth is very, very bitter to the present-day personality, to the egoism, which I say that we must kill, but to your soul self, to your self-consciousness, it's very sweet. Painful is the dreaming and ignorance and delusions. So, I am not teaching pessimism now. Nothing at all of that. I am just teaching you how to make the distinction between real and unreal. You are self and you are egoism. I am showing the real life and not the shadow of life. So, those who are in despair, not being satisfied by life, should cheer up and say, happiness is in us realizing who we are. Now, I have many sweet people here, and I have noticed many, many suicides in Switzerland. Why? You have everything. It is because that everything is not satisfying you. I heard the other day that a couple, I knew them, they came to Cyprus, very, very, very rich, committed suicide. And you are asking, why? They had everything. Very rich people. Why all these things did not satisfy them? That they got the wrong decision. Because what right did they have to stop life which they didn't understand by committing suicide? They thought that they would enter into the annihilation which means no pain, nothing. They entered into nothingness. They are deceived. What will be the result? They will be reborn lame, blind, or something like that, just to learn to appreciate life. Because we cannot take the law in our hands. So, one should tolerate life as it is now, to learn the lesson life will give us. We have to tolerate life so that we shall understand what is the true life. Which is your true life? For you, the truth. Where can you find the truth? You are the truth. When you realize that you are God. We are the truth. And what is not giving satisfaction is just the illusions and what we make the mistake to think it's the truth. The next moment we will find that it isn't the truth. Now, we have to face life as we have a phenomenon of life in the material plane boldly. And get the decision everything happening is to give a lesson. And the whole world, what I mean, the material plane, the psychical plane, the mind plane, and everything are ruled by the total wisdom, the total love, and the total might of power of an infinite absolute super intelligence we call God. So, what's the array? Becoming God. You can never become something you are not. Reawaken yourself in realizing you are God. You are in Him. And He is in you. If you find that, nothing, nothing is so interesting. Interesting? Since you have to live in the material plane, you must try to live properly. Just use the mind to separate what you call pleasing from painful. Try to find the pleasing as long as we have to live in this material plane. Because sooner or later we leave it. And avoid what you call displeasing or painful. And of course, do it for the others. Avoid giving pain to others by trying to make their life tolerably good and pleasing. What do we see now around us? Are people around us trying to feel the life as pleasing them and giving pleasure to the others around them? Or they do their best to make the life of the others more difficult by something else? Should we avoid these persons? And should we feel ill feelings for these persons? Relatives or strangers? No. Because those persons are most in need of our love and sympathy to find their way. So, we are living now as a present day personality in bodies. A material body, a psychical body and a lower mind body. We see that the illusions are common to all. The illusions have created for everyone a forced self-consciousness we call egoism. To make the mistake to think that we are that egoism. So, our aim is just to get rid of the illusions and of that egoism and find ourselves and us in our present day personality. We are the self-consciousness God. So is everyone around us. Man or woman. So much respect that ego self-consciousness in any present day personality people are calling thieves, criminals and giving many, many other bad names. So, in everyone we must see God. This is our attitude now towards life. And what should we express towards all other human beings? Our love or rather its love. Because what we call our love is its love. I didn't say his love or her love, because God is not male or female. We express its love. So, caught in this conclusion we reach to that infinite beingness is the only reality. And we are this reality. The infinite beingness is life and love. Of course, and mercy. What should we be? We are already life and we should express love. Its love as our love. Now you understand the invocation we make at the beginning of the lesson. God of life, love and mercy. Enlighten our minds to understand your truth. To free us from delusions. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards every human being. Because every human being is it. Every human being is our real self. We are not separated as spirit-souls. We are from the other. We are one. In it. Do you have questions? Yes. To truly see the I-am-ness in another person, is that something other than the ethers that is capable of using me too? We talked about the different ethers, the imprinting ether and the creative ether. Yes. But if I see the I-am in my sister, am I seeing through something different than the ether? Am I using another quality than the ethers? Now if you use the ether in the same way you use it, but you use the creative ether by authority now. But I said that in the beginning of the lesson. Definitely. Because you will be able to express the creative ether. You will make conscious materialization. Or rather, self-conscious materialization. Yes. It's my understanding from the lecture that the etheric double is that which creates the lower noetic body as well. No, no, no. The etheric double creates the material body. The etheric double of the psychical body creates the psychical body. And the etheric double of the mind creates the lower mental body. Each body has its etheric double and that etheric double is the mode in which that body is created. So you have three bodies, you have three etheric doubles, not one. Is that etheric, when we are healing on the psychical and noetic bodies, are we using the energy of the etheric double of that body to heal that body? Definitely. Okay, thank you. How do you use the etheric double of the psychical body? When you have a fellow there, and you make a wish, and you have in your heart the not desire, that feeling of help is here, automatically you are using the etheric double of the psychical body of Jesus. Because that corresponds to the feeling. And when you are first of learning how to do it, that means passing the etheric energy in his body with your hands, you are using the etheric energy of the mind body. Unconsciously. But later you use it consciously and self-consciously. Yes. In the first chapter of your book you say that the method of beingness will help us develop power, wisdom and total love. Can you give some instructions how to meditate correctly? How to meditate? Or is it perhaps a theme for tomorrow? There are many, many, many kinds of meditation. Many kinds of meditation. If you follow well this lecture today, I have given all the aspects of the expressions of our present-day personality. So, who decides to start meditating? The present-day personality or your ego? Sole self-conscious. Your present-day personality, ego, acknowledging its own nature will start meditating. In meditating you have no two points. The one who tends to learn which is your present- day personality and the one who already knows will convey its knowledge to the other fellow because unless this is the case, you will never be able to know anything unless you have within you the truth and the real knowledge. But you realize that after deep meditation. How? When you know something you have the feeling that you always knew it. That that was not unknown to you. Yet it was unknown to you. You think, I knew it. It's nothing new to me. You will find that. And this is the proof. But now, meditation. Of course, I will not tell you go to the Olympics now and run and expect to win to be a runner. The only thing you will be is to be short of breath. I felt that. You have to start knowing how to walk and walk better and run a little run more and more to regain strength. Then you become a runner. To go there and just claim gold medals. But you are not. You cannot do it now. As you are now. So you start your meditation slowly slowly, slowly regaining powers. Because the mind I mean the material brain, cannot respond to the vibrations of the mind unless they are trained to do so. The same way you can practice your body slowly slowly to do certain things. You cannot do them at the beginning. Now, what's the mind? What must be the brains? Suppose I tell you outside is fire. You say, how is fire? You say, the light of the sun and the rays of the sun is fire. How can you prove it to me? I get a magnifying glass and a piece of paper and say, come here. Concentrate the view of these rays. Then you see that you are touching fire. You see that. Don't touch fire. That's fire. What's the magnifying glass concentrating rays of the sun? That magnifying glass is your material brain. Use it. Make it a magnifying glass. Now just pay attention to what I'm saying now. The five senses are giving illusions which we mistake as realities. But the realities are illusions exist. What exists in time and space is giving illusions. And time and space is illusion. What is not illusion is the absolute beingness.