Daskalos - Reincarnation and the Cosmic Consciousness 1 - Jun-16-1992 Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation and deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightyness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. What is always in eternity is the absolute, infinite beingness God. The characteristics of God are the self-sufficiency. Another of the characteristics of God is the eternal life. And another characteristic of this infinite beingness is the absolute infinite selfhood, the self-awareness, in an absolute incomprehensible to the human intelligence state. Now, other expressions of this absolute beingness in itself are its total wisdom, its all- mightiness, and a divine plan. Because in the absolute infinite selfhood, the absolute infinite beingness, there is also the real pleasure of manifesting itself in itself, being life, to express itself as phenomena of life. The other nature of this absolute beingness is the incomprehensible to the human intelligence house boundless space. What is this boundless space? It's not easy to understand. We said yesterday that the real pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness is to manifest itself in itself. Because in the absolute infinite beingness are billions and billions beyond number beings. That's itself. We don't have two Gods. It's only one God, the absolute infinite beingness, in its multiplicity. Multiplicity doesn't mean that he multiplies. New beings are created. No. All those divine beings are in the absolute infinite beingness. They are immortal, let us call them Gods. There is no other way to express them. These are those who are just presenting themselves as the archangelic orders. Now, all these beings, divine beings, and of course that being, spirit, ego, who is the human being, in the absolute infinite beingness are all similar, alike, but entering in the real pleasure of the infinite beingness and of the infinite beings, because as the infinite beingness vibrates its real pleasure and its plan, immediately those vibrations are in all these beings, in the absolute beingness, being in atonement, in oneness with the absolute infinite being. So, vibrating the absolute infinite beingness on its real pleasure from itself and from all the other beings is manifested, what we call, the mind. The mind emanates from the absolute infinite beingness and from the immortal beings in itself. Self-conscious beings. So, we have now the mind. We shall see the mind from another point of view today. The mind, as super substance, formless, has in it that real pleasure of the infinite beingness and of the infinite beings, in it, for manifestation. So, this is the qualities of the mind. Where is the mind now? Everywhere in the boundless space, chaos. There is not any place where there is not life, the everlasting eternal life, the life, light, and the mind. Is the mind producing light? But the absolute infinite beingness is light. The selfhood is light, from another point of view. So, now, in the chaos, in space, there is ample light, the unextinguishable light, yet, darkness to the human eyes. So, darkness, in reality, does not exist. What we call darkness is the inability of the cross-material human eyes just to vibrate to that rate of vibration of the super light. Now, the orthodox science says, certain frequencies of the ether are giving us the light. Higher, lower, the human eyes cannot just understand light. So, darkness, looking during the night, in space, in the sky, we see darkness. He said, it's ample light. It is the unextinguishable super light. Because those who can develop super senses, they don't rely only on the five senses of the cross-material body. They can see that light and enjoy that light. And the light of the sun is nothing in comparison to the unextinguishable light, mind light. Because everything is in the mind and produced by the mind. So, another quality of the mind, which is everywhere, is to record in it everything. And that we call it the cosmic super consciousness or the cosmic memory. And one raising his consciousness to higher levels and higher levels of this super consciousness can conduct this cosmic consciousness or cosmic memory. So, one of the qualities of the mind is to record in it everything which takes place in this mind. The creation of the galaxies. Everything happening on a galaxy, on all the billions and billions of galaxies in the chaos space, there is the mind. Always. So, everything happening, what are the galaxies? How were the galaxies created in the chaos space? Everything is mind. The mind. Now, the holy archangels, now expressing and manifesting the real pleasure of the infinite beingness and their own pleasure, create from this mind the elements. Only five such kinds of elements can the human intelligence understand and study. A super elemental state, which you cannot give it a name. From it comes the element of fire, of water, of air, and the cross material things all around us. Everything is mind. Matter is mind solid. So, expressing the real pleasure of the infinite beingness and their own real pleasure, they create the holy archangels. These five elements known to us, by these five elements they create the universes, the seven heavens, as we can understand according to the church. The seven heavens. Do we have this solid matter in all these heavens? In all the worlds of the various dimensions? Yes, but in a different rate of vibrations and frequencies. Yes, we have. And the five elements, I am speaking my own experiences. You cannot find these things written in books. Yet, I don't know if someone sometime will dare present this great truth in books. So, in co-space, the mysterious way, the holy archangels of the elements, cooperating of the ether, of fire, of water, and even matter, they start creating a galaxy. When? There is no time. Always. Even now! Who knows? In the whole eternity. And one of the natures and characteristics of the infinite beingness is motion, moving, vibrating, expressing its divine real pleasure. So that mass of the mind starts moving around itself, producing the element of fire. And in fire are all the other elements, unmanifested yet. Now, moving around its axis, as a sphere of light, it casts around it other ports of light. How many? Thousands. And they, these ports of light, the suns in a galaxy, repeating the same thing, rotating around their axis, are producing the planets. Theory wars. At the beginning, we are on the element of fire yet. What is in the divine wisdom? According to the volume of this ball of light, it gets its place around the mother source, rotating around it. So we have the rotation around an axis, and the rotation of these ports of light around the mother source. Just think, according to the volume and to the size, they get the right distance from the center, rotating. Is that not total wisdom? Do they collide? No. So, the smaller ports of light, fire, those destined to be the planets, the course of years, no, of thousands of centuries, they start to create a crust around their surface, cracking all the time, emitting lava, again cooling down, and then cracking for how many centuries? Hundreds of centuries. Till they make a solid crust. Why? This is the divine plan. So that phenomena of life to appear on that surface, on that planet, is our planet, the Earth, which is just one of the smallest planets, the only one favored by the absolute infinite beingness and by life to produce the phenomena of life. We call it human being. And all the billions and billions of living phenomena of life around us? No. Life is everywhere. The everlasting life is everywhere. But is the phenomena of life we call human the most important? No. So, life is everywhere. And those who can just raise their self-superconsciousness can conduct not only those planets, but also what I call the cosmic memory, or the cosmic consciousness, can see what is happening and what is taking place on the other planets. I'm telling you, all the planets of our solar system are themselves alive and they have on them phenomena of life. Now, we say the mind. Mind is everywhere. Everything that takes place is recorded in the mind. Always and everything. Even the birth and the life of a worm, lots of worms, is recorded there. Of an ant, of a tree, of a plant, of a flower, of every phenomenon of life in the animal kingdom, you can contact and see it. And of the human being, is there. Now, in the eternal now, in the eternal present, there is not past, present and future. That is only the comprehension of the human intelligence. If you can contact, any period, live in it. Live again, maybe, in it. One of your past incarnations, which is there a living elemental. What is past, present and future? You are in the eternal now. Now, I'm afraid it is very difficult for you to understand these things at present, before just raising up your consciousness to the self- superconsciousness and be able to expand beyond time and place. But this is what everybody, someday, will be able to do. Because we are gods. We are not animals, like the other animal life all around us. But we have just to develop this time and place little self, the shadow of our real self. Just to assimilate it to our inner beingness, so that to reach what you call the right self- realization. Then you will understand what is selfhood, what is the logoic selfhood, what is the selfhood of the spirit, of the soul. Then you will understand what is really life. Because life, or God, or the absolute infinite beingness, or the absolute selfhood, is not just a very small phenomenon. You can just go beyond the phenomena to see the cause and the principle behind all those phenomena. Now, having that in mind, you must know that all events are recorded. All in this pan- universal mind. What about thoughts, feelings, instincts of the animal life all around us? Everything is recorded. Even a single thought. Are our mistakes recorded there? Definitely. Everything is recorded there. And our behavior? Our way of life? Of course it's there. Everything is there recorded. So we must classify now this cosmic consciousness, there is no other better word of cosmic memory, into the events happening as the creation of a galaxy, of a planet, of a solar system, and what is happening on them by the phenomena of life. Which are these phenomena of life? Everything. The rocks are living, the crystals are living, the metals are living, the trees are living, the vegetable kingdom is alive, the animal kingdom is alive. Every phenomenon of life, no matter in which kingdom of the creation belongs, is recording on the mind the event and the reactions in it. The instincts of the animals are recorded there. The desires and the emotions of every human being. And the actions, the thoughts, are recorded there. So, in every incarnation of a human being, after completing that incarnation, and that incarnation doesn't mean only the material body, because it's only a part of the circle of possibilities of the human being. The life on the material world continues its life in the psychical world, in the nautical world, and back again. Until new reincarnation, everything is recorded there. And for every complete incarnation in the cosmic consciousness, everything is that, what we call elemental, it's an elemental, living. Now, is your past incarnation now alive? Past incarnations, maybe hundreds are there, elementals of your passing through what you call life. They are. Yes. And they have their own life. Because elementals are living. There is nothing dying in the mind. So, if you can contact the elementals of your past incarnation, in the cosmic consciousness of the planet, you'll meet yourself there, as you were there, alive. So, all those experiences of yours, the sum total of the elementals you have created or revitalized from group elementals, completing an elemental of personality, individuality, is living now. All your incarnations, hundreds maybe, are now living and they are alive in the cosmic consciousness. Which is where? Everywhere. Because it is beyond the sense of place. They are in the world of a different dimension now, because the world of the three dimensions and four dimensions are limiting the sense of time, which is eternal now, eternal present. I'm afraid we are in very, very deep waters now. And you are not all so expert divers. So, one has to develop his or her super-consciousness to be able to contact this cosmic memory or cosmic consciousness of our planet. So, we have the cosmic consciousness of our planet. There is the cosmic consciousness of our solar system. There is the cosmic consciousness of our galaxy. There is the cosmic consciousness of all the galaxies. Because all are floating in the super-substance of the mind. And the mind is recording in it everything. That's just the quality of the mind. Super- substance. Now, something else. If you meet an incarnation of yours, now you are a different person and self as individuality. You will see many, many things. You find out they are wrong. Can you correct anything? No. What is recorded is recorded. I'll give you an example. You have a great singer. He's recording an opera. And sometimes as he's singing with his orchestra, he's making a mistake. It's recorded already. You have recorded it. You put it again and you see it the way he was singing. Now, hearing it, he says, no, no, no. That was a mistake. It was not that. He cannot correct that. He can create something else to make the correction. That is already there. So in every incarnation of us, we can add nothing and take out nothing. It's there. With the difference, recording just a tape, that thing is not a living thing. Well, our elementals are made of the living mind. They are alive. So, how do we believe, knowing why we believe like that, on what we call reincarnation? Of course, I do believe in that, but not in the way certain people are believing. And as I said in a lesson, the second page of a book is not the third, not the fourth, not the fifth. Each page is different. Yes, the same matter in it, but a different page. So, in every incarnation, we are a different personality, but the same soul-self. Now, why don't you remember past incarnations? Because you are one of these pages. You are not the book to be able to say, I was that. You can't say that with your name and your personality's consciousness today, because you are a different person now. So, the one who has the right to say that is your soul-selfhood, who was incarnated at the time, and not you as a person. So nobody can say, I was that, who I am. When you raise your self-consciousness now to those levels of your soul-selfhood, you remember. And you have the right to remember, because that's you. But you are now a different individuality from the past personalities. The spirit is the same, but not the personality. So, only reaching those levels, you can say, I have been that, and that, and that person. Not before, because every time you come, you dress yourself with matter. Yes, of course, there is something common. You carry with you all experiences, tendencies, a predisposition. That's true. Some of the elementals, that means the so-called subconsciousness, but not more than that. And these are qualities, and not yourself. So, you need deep introspection, reaching to that stage of self-superconsciousness, to understand the reality behind the phenomena of life, and our own life. So, what I want to say is that everything is recorded on the mind, which is everywhere, and stored up in the cosmic, let us call it super-consciousness. No corrections, no alterations can be made. Are we responsible? Not more than naughty children in their classes and in the yard of their school. Of course, from the human point of view, we consider the faults of others as crimes, and our faults, of course, not so serious. But these are human weaknesses. From the point of view of the divine selfhood, and from our own just expressions as a soul, the personalities' mistakes are not just to make us feel ashamed. They are mistakes which do not carry a punishment, definitely, or responsibility beyond the lesson to be taken. Don't think that in passing over, that means casting out the material body, you will find yourself before a strict judge. The judgment day is a blasphemy against God. There is no such a thing. There is no such a thing as judgment and conviction, because God is most merciful. So we must free ourselves from just ideas which are not right. We are sons of God as soul and spirit, egos. Casting a shadow in time and place, we become just as a personality, with its mistakes, and to take lessons, lessons, thoughtful, being divine in nature, but human in expression, we have to free ourselves from the divine matter and assimilate it to our real self. All these truths, you will find them in the Gospel, taught by Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. The God who had humanized and incarnated directly, and the only one to be called a God-man. We are all men-gods. That's the only one, the God-man, who came directly, without reaching higher states of self-consciousness through the incarnations. So this problem of reincarnation is very complex, and we should not just take it lightly and believe stupidities. Now, today, we, human beings, having a material body, a name given us, of a male or a female person, living in a certain place, who has chosen that we will be born and live in the place we are now living? Destiny. The law of destiny. So that we now, as an individuality, we said we had many, many, many personalities, but we have an individuality now, what we call the permanent personality in our teachings. We have in that permanent personality, or individuality, from past incarnations, because the heart of this individuality is our spirit, soul, ego, who was incarnated at the time. We have in it, and the lessons, and the predispositions, and the knowledge, subconsciously though, to start living with it. So what's our duty in coming into an age able to use the mind and reason? What is happening now to all people all around us? They get their predispositions, just following them, instead of just thinking of them, can I correct things? Can I change things? Why are coming in life certain persons, talented, as we might call them, and others are not? Why they come in this life, certain children, with the tendency of lying, of stealing, this predisposition? Because they are in their subconsciousness, in their permanent personality. They are here just for corrections, not of the past, not of the incarnation elemental, but to use it now, for our new incarnation. So, a reasonable person, man or a woman, should just start meditating and thinking on what is going on in his present day personality, desires, tendencies, and all that, and find the cause of it. And then, now, as a reasonable being, instead of just giving itself up to these tendencies, leading sometimes to destruction, start using the mind. The mercy of God gave to every human being the right to use the mind, to study this case concerning him or her, and just make the life he should make, instead of being a slave of circumstances, of desires, of emotions, of weaknesses. This is the duty of every human living being, man or a woman. Is that what happens now, around us, in the world? No. The human beings today, instead of using the mind, they are slaves of desires, of emotions, and of weaknesses, which are leading them to despair, to pain, to troubles. This is what creates, in our communities, confusion and pain. Now, is in the life we are living a punishment? No. We are just where we place ourselves, with the way of feeling and thinking. And you can get out of it any moment we decide to, and we want to. We are free to do it. We are given the mind, we have to reason and change things. It's only a decision to take. But, many times I hear this, my feelings are so strong, sir. My desires are so strong, sir. Even today, I had a case. A fellow calling himself an honest man, with two children, with a wife faithful to him, loving him, got in love with one who was giving herself too many. He really ruined him, selling things, many, many things. Happily, he came to senses, what can I do now, sir? Get back home, to your wife, to your children. Try to show them that you have changed now. He said, but there is still a feeling in me for that woman who is now with somebody else, before meeting you. Now, come to senses. What will be the end of this story, if you again make friends with that woman? But I want them both. Really, I wanted just to give him a slap. What does it mean, you want them both? But the feeling, sir, that you are mistaken and an illusion. Just now, make the comparison, and see what is good for you to do. Yes, my mind says that, no, I tell you what your mind should tell to you, and that would be the voice of God. I gave you a wife, a faithful, as you say, wife. I gave you two children. You are neglecting them now. You have to look after them. What about your responsibilities to God? But is there such a thing as God, sir? Nobody taught him anything about God. He was baptized, Greek Orthodox. Of course, sometimes, out of habit, he is putting the sign of the cross, but he doesn't go to church now. In church, who are going to church now? The church is not God.