Daskalos - Living the good Life 2 - Mar-8-1993 We find that this kind of behavior, the desire, while it is general, everybody is under just the impulses of desire, it becomes too personal. In which way it becomes personal? Because immediately you feel a desire. Of course, we will deal tomorrow on the problem of the elementals composing the personality, and how these elementals are influencing the human being. You find that these desires start to everybody in the same way, creating circumstances, or people are living in certain circumstances already, and these desires have different force in each one of us. And these desires are just making our personality find ways how to satisfy these desires. Then immediately we are making the great mistake, enslaving the mind as thoughts now, pre-calculated thoughts to serve the desires. That means creating an elemental, and this elemental now is getting hold of us, becoming our master. It wants, first of all, prolongation of its life, and that mastery over its creator. Because there is another point of study of the seeker of the truth, to study the nature of elementals, what they are, how they behave, how he is subconsciously energizing them, and how he should consciously learn how to dis-energize them. And then super-consciously, self-consciously, to control them and use them. So we find a desire now. This desire, where shall we find it? Study it. We find that in the way we are living, each one of us had made part of the so-called subconscious nature our own. So another branch of study. So study what is subconsciousness as the storehouse of energy, the workshop of the holy archangels to work through the etheric double to build up the material body and keep it in good health. And that part of the subconsciousness, which is under the control of the sum total of these elementals, we call egoism. Of the personality, which is very different from one person to the other. We call it a very bad-smelling, muddy poo. How bad-smelling it is, it depends upon the person. So we have to study the nature of desire. Separately, and each desire separately, in its birth, which is created. Now studying all these desires, the secrets of it, what did they find out? That according to the circumstances and to the density of these desires, is that the word? Density? Of these desires, it is their effect. So according to circumstances, they can be fulfilled immediately. Or it would be impossible to be fulfilled at that time immediately. But I am telling you, all these desires are fulfilled sooner or later. No elemental created by any desire is dis-energized unless we do it willingly. Or by itself, unless it's fulfilled. Never mind that it may be fulfilled after three or four incarnations. Because human beings are leaving their bodies and their bodies are dying, decaying, and he's putting new bodies, and yet these elementals are composing its sub-consciousness. So this sub- consciousness, call it yourself hell if you like, exists even after you are leaving the material body, accompanying you in the psychical and in the numerical world. It's a very serious branch of study for the seeker of the truth. But now let us come down and see the desire on the cross-material plane, in our sub-consciousness. We see the desire either fulfilled quickly or not fulfilled. What does it create if it is not fulfilled? And you see other people just succeeding according to their circumstances. Their way, they are just doing it. Immediately, you start feeling jealous. A devil comes to you immediately. Why? Why not to me? Why to them? Then you start finding fault to the people around you who were the obstacle of the fulfillment of this desire. Then it comes the uncontrolled way of using the mind. Slaves now of desires. Now, are desires and emotions the same thing? There is a relation between emotions and desires, though the emotions can be classified in another way. There is another branch of egoism in emotions than in desires on their lower levels. What do we see? Then it is formed that bad-smelling, muddy pool. You start hating, feeling jealous. You want just to take revenge. Why did they stand in my way? These people, why did they do that or that? Then, the human beings without using rightly thought, they are leaving themselves slaves of these desires which now become emotions. Then they act from a higher level of the personality, the real personality. Leading where? Fighting, struggle, enmity, divorces in a family, quarrels in a family, breaking dishes and furniture, making weapons and wars, killing each other. So, in its serious study, the nature of a desire, how it works, the nature of the various emotions, their effect and what they leave behind if desires and emotions are not fulfilled. And I'm telling you, first of all, the one who is good at is the fellow who keeps them. I'm telling you, hatred and all these, let us call them negative emotions, are poisons, very dangerous to your material bodies. Is that a self-punishment? Not predestined, we are creating it. Now, I'm putting the question, why do you think the God-man, so I call him because he was the God-man, Joshua Manuel the Christ, what you call Jesus, had been human and then came into the world just to show human beings that they should not live like animals and like wild beasts but become human, angels and gods to enter in their own divine state. That's why he came. He gave certain examples which of course according to their time and even today are considered stupid. After all, I heard an argument talking to me saying, but don't you think that Joshua Christ sometimes was saying stupid things? I said, really? Which stupid thing did Joshua Christ say? He said, if one comes and strikes with one cheek of a human, the other cheek. Is that not stupid? I said, no, it was not stupid at that time, it is not stupid even now. He gave at that time Joshua Manuel the Christ examples because the Israelites, especially the Israelites not the Essenes at that time the small people who understood what he was saying protested and being under the law of Moses tooth for a tooth, an ear for an ear, an eye for an eye, they revolted. What do you mean? If one comes slapping with one cheek of a human, the other, that's stupid. And he explained at that time Joshua suppose somebody is coming to you that's slapping you. Instead of quarrelling keep calm instead of getting angry be still look at him inquisitively not with words because he will revolt he will become worse just sitting with his eyes why are you doing that? That time Joshua said he is coming attacking you shouting and explaining why it is the nature of things if you find out that there is something wrong explain yourself you have done something wrong said something wrong it's not humiliating to apologize and ask him to forgive you and just give your hand and gain a friend that's quite wise that's a good thing a fellow comes at that time especially the Israelites were carrying with them a dagger or a knife or something like something else for protection that was a stupid exclusion he has proved that that's not a protection so he says a fellow comes slapping you continues slapping you look at him with love these are their illusions how long he will do it? till he comes down then explain to him if you don't do that he is slapping you you give him a kick he continues slapping you you slap him use your fist then your feet hot will come he will draw the dagger and you will do the same and what will be the result? painful wounds? prison? the grave? and they held four criminals is that preferable? so he was justified it was not stupid to say if one slaps you in the cheek offer him the other just to give way to the anger it was very very wise now his coming in this world it was to teach people that all human beings as spirit, soul, egos are gods and a fellow cannot hate a god because he is under the illusions of the flesh and of the secrets nobody can hate another man without insulting god that's why he said love your enemies pray for those cursing you send good thoughts because they are the ones who are in need more of your love and your prayers than those who are around you but who understood him? who did understand him really at that time? so what is our duty as seekers of the truth? I insist to what I said hundred times until now the best friend of every seeker of the truth Christian especially is to have the bible the new testament and try to understand what is in there of course they have taken much out of it worth of reading but there is much of it still there to study what? what is the right behavior of a human being to god and to other human beings this is just the way of the good life because I say many times I had many many talks with many people all over they were coming to me or going to them with degrees doctorates religious people self appointed religious people and all that I'm telling you their problems are all the same all of them are slaves of a demon called personal egoism and the more educated they believe that they are different from the other people they are just slaves of their own stupid idea that they are superior than the others of course a laborer or somebody all around you if he is doing something wrong it's not difficult for him to go and ask from that fellow to forgive him to excuse him but suppose a doctor of medicine to a laborer is he willing to go and apologize and say I'm sorry I am wrong no I had in the past a case in Cyprus a fellow who was just a member of our circle he was a judge his owner of course sometimes he became a laborer poor laborer in his place that was just a fellow a cunning fellow he said certain things of course that poor laborer who was toiling all the time with four children to feed them was wounded why the judge said these words against him of course the judge didn't say these words it was just a trick a fellow who had been sent away by the judge one morning going out the fellow told the judge well your honor do you think because you are a judge you have to say this and this against me and against my family and all that because the judge got angry so many things there was just a kind of quarrel and bitterness of course I heard it when the judge came to me in the lesson told him I want to talk to you he said you are honor I said do you use that for me yes you are honor he said what do you mean you are honor you have to go and apologize to that laborer you said very hard words against him he is a fellow with four children toiling all day long and he needs more respect at least from you go and apologize before I explain to him yes because you are a judge you mean it's humiliating to go and correct things he looked at me and said no and he went away after when he came to census he bought two bottles of cognac in the evening because he learned that that fellow was taking with his family something after coming from the work some cake and something for the children and just he went to the house to the little house in front of the laborer entering he said look here really this morning we didn't behave well myself to you and you to me stopping me in the middle of the road but I want to understand what was the cause because the fellow explained I never said things that you will say that I am like that he just said yes that's a trick I know now he got the children on his knees giving them chocolates to the judge then the fellow started crying he told him why are you crying he said you are on earth forgive me I didn't say any hard words but forgive me even for just being excited in the evening the judge came to my house he said I went to your niece he said very good morning he started laughing all dialogue between you he said yes I know that you were there because I was feeling you there he said what was wrong in just making a friend no that fellow is just a kind of slave to you indebted to you for what you have done unless if somebody would say something against you in his presence he said is that not better to have a friend seem humiliating in reality they are not they are not humiliating you words of kindness and of love the time you have just to correct something wrong so a seeker of the truth should have that in his mind to dominate over his personal egos which is a demon presenting itself very often even as an angel of light you have just to have much observation and right thinking to take the mask from that devil of the angel of light what do I mean to say we have our divine nature as spirit, soul, egos of observation we have the power of using the mind in the right way in right thinking we should do that instead of being slaves of circumstances and of just unfortunate events in life what is the gain you are master of life you are master of yourself and you are master of the circumstances that's a great thing then the seeker of the truth apart from that just annihilating his demon the egos should free study all things around him study the nature of desire generally and study separately each expression of a desire not only in him but in everybody all around him start to study by observation and right thinking the condition of the family how your family is living there are divorces quarrels fighting hatred in a family children crying having what you call psychic aloons misery you can find all that in the house of a scientist in the house of a so called nobleman in the house of a laborer all the same you will find it all of them are slaves of a so called personal egoism they are not using rightly the mind and they are slaves of circumstances and of their emotions study around you in your community the family life of people your own relatives and the others in the community divorces quarrels and if you question all of them they will all say that they are right and the other side is wrong another fault of the human beings everybody is wrong except ourselves that means not sincerity with your own self where I am aiming at when a fellow is calling himself a seeker of the truth and belongs to a circle in Europe everywhere Cyprus really I am not rejoicing of having just a very big number of members calling themselves seekers of the truth because when a seeker of the truth has the right to call himself a seeker of the truth a man or a woman should be a seeker of the truth should live just the kind way of life he should live being a seeker of the truth so I give more attention in the way of life just this teaching making it part of their life instead of calling yes we are seekers of the truth we belong to a circle here and there continue living their own way of life where you were living before being unhappy without having any change in their life so we should give much more importance to the lessons to the guidance given for everybody to believe that he or she is a seeker of the truth how should we understand that they are on the right way by the change in their life instead of quarreling slapping shouting they are saying words of love to their people they just make a very nice home life I believe that we have succeeded to a great degree to that in some people but I want to see that more so I'm telling you now what's life we are living that's a great gift of God to make us live as human beings offer to us a material body a heart to love and the mind to use it he claims that we should use it make a good use of it so realizing what is a human being and a seeker of the truth one should become happy in life now we'll make an exercise relax completely relax the whole material body from the toes to the head feel your body completely relaxed relax your psychical body silence down completely all emotions and feelings just simply feel you are living I'll give you an exercise Joshua, Emmanuel the Christ was giving to his unseen disciples feel you are living in your material body and in your mind hear the word of the Logos I have given you a material body to live in no doubt about it you are in it now you can realize you have that material body who gave it to you hear him saying that I have given you a cross material body to live in it I have given you a heart hear me I am in the parts of your heart I am in you I am you as a spirit soul ego but I am in you as a person man or woman hear me in the parts of your heart I am there breathe deeply feel my vitality in your lungs I have given you the lungs you can feel me there I am life I am giving life in your body you can feel me there I love you I am the Lord you are God in you and in every other human being you are in my omnipresence all are in my omnipresence all are in me and I am in every one of you and in everything feel me hear me I am around you I am in you I am the Lord you are God hear me in the noise your breath is doing while breathing inhaling my vitality hear me in your red hot blood running in your body I am there I am life feel me and hear me in the breeze caressing your face feel me in the heat making warm your body and living see me everywhere in the tempest see me and hear me in the waves see me caressing the trees as the wind I am everywhere I am love I am life love and light see me in the light the light you can see with your eyes I am in it is Joshua Emmanuel the Christ now the Locust feeling us knowing us of course he said where are there are two or three in my name I am amongst them he is here everywhere now use just your divine power of visualizing using the mind in bringing forward from the past certain events the introspection is a serious way of meditation see yourself with somebody you have differences and you are familiar or not it doesn't matter or even two people two persons three persons don't try to understand who is wrong and who is right this doesn't mean anything what means is just an event which was very disagreeable to you and to the others don't think it was agreeable to others you have the power to bring in your mind now these persons bring them see them see them smiling I have given you a heart to love see your heart a sun radiating the light of love see that light in the face of those fellows whether you are wrong or you are right it doesn't matter love them see them happy in the light of your heart see your heart a sun giving light to those people and really love them forget what they said forget what you said forget the differences these are just like leaves of autumn carried by the wind they mean nothing what means is that you are living they are living and both of you are offsprings of the same father of God they are Gods and you are Gods see them smiling to you kindly tell them with your mind you can talk with your mind much better than you can use your tongue and your mouth talk with your mind tell them that you love them it is the language the Archangels and God hear and understand enough and who do you think is benefited more? they or you? of course you but what you have done is the best remedy to annihilate the force of the poison of hatred and complain which is in our personality what you have done is more for your sake than for the sake of the others but it is for their sake also and me in it tomorrow we will give the lesson more with more details on the elementals