Daskalos - Living the Gospel of Christ 2 Now, we must draw the two points of the line to the center to find our real I-ness, our real self-ego. Yes, of course, drawing from the material state that then to come to the center, we understand it. Draw also that point, which is our spiritual self, to the center. Yes. Why? Because unless we do that, and we carry that center to that point, we cannot retain our selfhood as human beings. And whatever we have learned and mastered on the material plane, we have it. Because if that was not so, then we would lose ourselves, even our present-day self, our selfhood, and the absolute infinite beingness. In Nirvana, this is just a mistake of certain Buddhists. I had a Buddhist before some time. He was very advanced. He told me, yes, but are you sure you have a self? I said, yes, this is what is your mistake. Your Nirvana doesn't mean annihilation. It doesn't mean nothingness. Otherwise, why did the absolute infinite beingness have allowed the lost son to go out and get his experiences and come back, thinking the lost son would come back? It is in the divine plan. What for? Why do you think this absolute infinite beingness, your father, God, your father, granted you the material body you have now, so perfectly constructed? And why did the absolute infinite beingness employ all the archangelic orders, these beings you are brothers, to work in this body and in the other bodies, to form organs, keep a complete whole, so that you will develop as a personality in that body? Is that stupidity in the total wisdom of God? No. It is the divine plan. Yes, the human body and the other bodies have been constructed, and they are kept in good order for the development of the shadow of the proper self into a kind of material, personal self, to get experiences and bring them back home to its own nature. So one, a seeker of the truth, should try to understand the divine plan, to understand what is a phenomenon in life, the phenomena of life, all around us, in all the planes, the material, the psychical and the neurotical, to find its place, that phenomenon of life called human being. Human being. What remains is the being, and you are a being, divine, holy, as all the other beings in God who are the archangelic orders. So, the human being is divine and holy. Divine in nature should be holy in expression. Now, Joshua the Christ, that perfect and immaculate ray of the locust who came down, incarnated into a human body, humanized a body, bringing the absolute infinite selfhood into individual selfhood, feeling himself that every one of us is in him, and he is in everyone, not only us in the locust, even Joshua the Christ, and he has proved it. He has proved it, in so much as you do to one of these brethren, the least brethren of mine, you are doing it to me. Joshua the Christ existed before the birth of the human being called Joshua the Christ in the conception of God. He found the time, materializing itself in the human world, stayed for 33 years, teaching, proving the truth. The flesh is nothing, it is the spirit which is giving the life. Here you are. Crucify him. When they came to arrest him in the Garden of Gethsemane, there, and Peter thought with his little sword he could protect him. He said, put it there, and you should know the law. Those who use that sword will perish by this sword. And if I want, he said, can I not ask my father and bring legions of angels to protect me from these human beings? But I came for this hour to prove that flesh is nothing. And he said, many occasions, that and that and that will happen to me. They will tease me. They will mock me. They will scorch me. That and that, but in the third day crucify me. In the third day I will resurrect my body. He said that. And he had to prove it. That he was God. Yes. God prevailed over the human. Just think now for a moment. Make this visualization. Keeping a human body, mocking, beating, putting that thorny crown, blood coming, his knees wounded, the body wounded very badly. They have used the whip on his body. A great martyrdom. And then, laying him down and nailing him on the cross. Raising him up to die by hemorrhage. Exhaustion. That was the aim of the crucifixion. To die by loss of blood, hemorrhage. And being there in the very last moment, before saying, Father, to your hands I commend my spirit, looking down to his killers there with love. He should love each other as I have loved you. Saying, Father, forgive them. They do not know what they are doing. Was he God or not? Yes. So, and he proved it. He raised up his body. Where is he now? Twenty years after the crucifixion. Twenty, no, centuries. After the crucifixion, where is he now? Where there are two or three in my name, I am amongst them. Here. Everywhere. In every body. Because he is the divine selfhood. And Johanan the Evangelist, his first cousin, who loved him, who was beloved by him and who knew him because he was an archangel who accompanied him on the planet. What did he say? In him is life. Nothing had been created which had not been created through him, being in Christ, being the Logos. In him is life and the life is the light of men, the light of men, of every human being, which means the self-consciousness of a man. So, he was feeling that time the feelings of everyone. And he is feeling now, every one of us, loving us now. What do you think was the cup? He asked the father a few minutes before his arrest, it's your will, move it from me. Fearing death. He didn't show any weakness. He expected it. He predicted it and expected it. What was the cup? Just read there in the Bible. Father, if it is your will also, move this cup from me. Which was that? The bloodshed which will follow all through this 20 centuries and now even in Europe. Catholics killing Protestants and Protestants killing Catholics. Now, everywhere. What about the bloodshed all through the centuries? Inasmuch that you do to one of this list of my brethren, you are doing it to me. Anything one is doing, good or evil, like to another human being, is doing it to him. He is feeling it. That's the cup he requested. And beseeching him now to move it. Because he had loved the human being. So you, being human beings, the greatest honor by the logoic absolute infinite beingness, we should understand it. We came, we were born to live as human beings just because that was the divine plan. You say, what is the divine plan after all? To become masters of the mind matter in your material body. To become the masters of the mind emotion, desires, way of living, of behaving. And lastly, to become masters of the mind as reasoning and thought. Developing as a present day personality. The petty little self which the logos will save. The perishable in expression will become imperishable. Being in nature imperishable. You are ego. You are selfhood. You are present day selfhood. So this is the aim. Is that our aim in life now? To use the divine and most precious gift of God which is mind as thought and reasoning? Do we use thought and reasoning? Or do we expect others to think for us? We are using the material organs of our material body. Feet playing football, hands working, getting certain skills, even using a dagger to kill. Do we use our mind? We should. That's the aim of the law, the absolute infinite beingness. So it's a great honor in a phenomenon of life being called human. But we should be human. Are we human? Or sometimes worse than the animals around us? Animals? There are rhinos and animals also, but there are also wild beasts around us. Killing. Killing. But again, killing what? Don't be afraid of those who kill your material body and cannot touch your soul. He spoke about the soul. About our beingness. About our own nature. There was nothing which Joshua, the Christ, didn't reveal concerning his father and our father, his God and our God, and himself as the locus. So, the aim in life is to be human. That's the way. Through being human, we have to develop our petty little self, develop in it all the stages of consciousness. Now we have expressed today our self as instinct. Subconsciousness. Not yet waking consciousness. We have to develop what we call the self-awareness. The self-consciousness. And using the mind, controlling emotion, using the mind properly, constructively, we understand that we are not the mind. The mind is an instrument in our hands. By practice, observation, we know what's the truth. Then going by using the mind, beyond the mind, we develop in our self, finding our real self in it, what I call super-consciousness. And through super-consciousness, by attunement, and then by at-one-ment, the oneness, we know who is the locus, who is Christ. Joshua the Christ, who will be in ourselves the reality, will be rewarded by the Christhood, not leaving anything except what is considered to be evil, and it is a misconception. Carrying with us the human. That's what I said, yes, the line of the spirit. So, coming to the center, we'll carry also that center, which is our selfhood. We are not going to be lost as an individual self in a kind of Hindu nirvana. We'll keep our selfhood. Because, yes, not we have a self, we are that self, we are that ego, we'll keep our I-ness. This is stated also in the parable of the lost son. In the parable of the lost son, when the so-called lost son, which was in the divine plan, just cardinal sin and all that are imaginations of the priests, they do not exist, it is the divine plan. So, going out, got his property, that means the mind, in all its form. Yes, lived the life, a human being is living as a prodigal son, so-called prodigal son, undergoing bitter, painful experiences to reach the awareness, becoming the god of the swine, that means of the elementals. The swine are the elementals. And then, getting back home to his father. Getting back home, how his father had behaved, it's stated in the parable. Making a step towards the father, the father makes another nine steps to come and meet him and embrace him. He gave also the parable of the lost sheep. He said, who? Losing a sheep. He's not leaving the 99 in the herd and goes out to find it. When he will find it, he will put it on his shoulder as a good shepherd and bring it back to the herd. It's clear. So, when the prodigal son came back, what did the father do? Dress him, the first dress of a prince. He was a prince. He placed on his finger the ring. What does it mean? What's the ring? The circle is the symbol of eternity. There's no beginning, no end. As long as there is motion and move, without stopping, what is the beginning and what is the end? That's the ring. Now you know what is time and eternity. Something the archangels do not understand. Many times, contacting myself with the archangels, I'm telling them, what's time? They don't understand. They say, now. They know what is eternal now. But they cannot understand what is past, present, and future. Now, I know what is eternal now, of course. No one can explain this eternal now. So, coming back, he has the golden ring. All the experiences of his course, Christ said, I am the way and the truth and life. Now, he says that certain archangelic orders felt offended. Not doing so much as the prodigal son knows now. They don't have a golden ring in their fingers. And the father has sacrificed the well-fed bull. The archangel said, I am with you. You never have sacrificed even a small animal for me to enjoy with my friends. How? He never had any material body. Which means sacrificing, that means the material body has to be sacrificed. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of the heavens, said Joshua the Christ. Flesh and blood. He didn't say the form. He didn't say the human form. We have to separate the materialized human form and the form. He said flesh and blood. He didn't say your material form. Because leaving out this material body to decay in the grave or be cremated, you find yourself with your form, with all the characteristics, your characteristics in the psychical plane. Casting even the psychical so-called substance, you find yourself in a brighter substance, a super substance. Again in your form, in the form you had. Then you say, in which age, when I am in that form, which form am I in the neurotic plane? Which form? You are a master of your circle of possibilities. You have the form of the spermatozoon. You have the form, all the forms you have undergone to grow up in scrapping your life in the material world. You have the form you have in the psychical plane, in the neurotic plane, completing till you will be reincarnated again. That form, which form now? You are now in the eternal now. You are now under the illusions of time as present, past and future. And what is death? There is death of the material form, not of the form. Because the form is the circle of possibilities. Now you, every one of you, no matter in which age you are, just think what form, material form, you had before 20 years. Still more back when you were little children, boys or girls, crawling on the ground. Where is that child? In matter, in material form. It's gone. Now you are what you are now. What will be after 30 years if you live in the material body? Not even one particle of your material body now, an atom will remain in that form. It's you. Yet you will be you. So Saint Paul said, every day I'm dying. He meant that. So we are changing from minute to minute as a material form, not as a form. We are going gradually round and round. I am the way, he said. The truth and life, your life. What concerns you is your highness and life. Not a certain age in the material form of death and of the soil. Now you find that this life in the material form on the earth, in earth and soil, is the most precious because you don't remember. I don't say you don't know. You don't remember any other better way of life. But knowing you prefer the other kind of life. Somebody will ask you now, would you like to become this moment, that child, making yourself dirty and rubbing your nose like that with your clothes and playing and crying and shouting without any cause and reason? You say, of course not! Because now you know something else. I am using the mind and I am reasoning. At that time I didn't know anything. That age. Now when you reach in a period of such a life, different from today, and you remember the way you are feeling, thinking now with your weaknesses, with the pain caused by desires and emotions, and will ask you, just see. You will see in the same way you see now your childhood. You say, oh, how stupid I was at that time. And then how do you gain it? What I call self-awareness. So we come to a conclusion. What is the reality? Your spirit, ego, self, your I-ness, as a human being in expression and as God in nature. Because our nature is divine. And our expression is human. Now we will make a meditation. I think we took it very deep waters today. I don't know if you understood the lesson. Now getting from your mind, I find that most of you really did understand the lesson. Come on, relax completely the material body. You can be the masters of that body even as a personality. Because in nature you are gods. Forget the way you are behaving. If it is not sober and wise. In nature you are gods. Now you can be masters of your material body. And the holy archangels, the creators, the builders in it, be sure they are not offended. They rejoice seeing you developing. Feel your material body completely relaxed. Believe me, it is under good care of the locusts and the archangels. They all the time try to repair damages caused by you. By your way of living. Breathe deeply and feel what? Who am I? Who am I? You are a woman. Your attention will be to the woman you are now. A man to a man. To your human material form. But that is not you. You are changing. Try to find your I-ness. Your self now. The heart of your personality. And not the rest of your personality's body. You are you. Try to understand what you are. Not who you are. Who is too material. This is the word of the existence. What you are. God. Yet you have a form. You will keep your form. That's yours. The infinite Father allowed you, a spirit soul, to create this form of yours. You have. And you will keep it. In eternity. Which means you are human form. Put the question to yourself. What am I? As life. As a living being. What am I? As life. As a living being. And what am I now? As a human being. A man or a woman. I am George. I am Helen. Take out George and Helen. And find the reality. I am. The I-ness is the reality. And the word am means existing. Being. Being and existing. The equality. The expression of your I-ness. Concentrate on the I. Concentrate on your selfhood. Divine selfhood. Not human. Everlasting life. Spirit, soul, ego. Calm down every thought. You are not the mind. The mind is an instrument. For you to use. Calm down every emotion. You are not the emotions. The emotions are changing all the time. Your interests in life are changing all the time. Forget your body. Yet concentrate. Feeling you are in this material body. Enough. Someday you will be able to make another exercise. Get out of your material body. And feel your I-ness more clear. Moving anywhere you are. Seeing your material body as a cloth. You took off and put it there and you can put it back again. Then you find out that your material brains are nothing. What counts is you. What Christ said. The spirit is going anywhere it likes to go. That are words which Christ spoke to Nicodemus in private. Because they mutilated much that dialogue. But there are still many things remaining there. So. Unless you master consciousness in the material body in this way. You will not be able to get out of your body. Many like just to have that eczematosis. But I am telling you. If it is in your time to do it naturally. It is not a blessing. So. It needs long sincere training. And one day. Maybe a night. It doesn't matter. Without expecting it you will find yourself out. Without trying to do it. Many have succeeded. But I am warning you. You shouldn't be afraid. You should just then try to use reasoning and observation. You can come back anytime you like in your body. As you can come back home anytime you like when you are out. That life for you has a very different meaning. Then you start entering into the fields of the self-realization. Yet again on the lowest stages. Because there are more and more and more. Until you reach your divine nature. The divine self.