Daskalos-May-11-1992-A-EthericDoubles Our father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. What is, was always, is now, and will be always, is the absolute, infinite reality. The absolute, infinite beingness, God. What human beings, with their human intellect, intelligence, can understand is that this absolute reality, this absolute beingness, expresses the absolute, infinite selfhood. The selfhood means self-awareness. It is not just a blind power expressing the total wisdom. This is the proof of this absolute, infinite selfhood. One of the characteristics of this absolute, infinite selfhood, or beingness, is the self-sufficiency. But also, in this absolute, infinite selfhood and sufficiency, is the real pleasure of expressing itself in itself, expressing its total wisdom. So, from that very moment, which was always, and will always be, from this absolute, infinite beingness emanates the mind as super-substance, substance, ethereal energy, and matter. Everything is the mind. When we say the mind, we should not think just a handful of it, which is in the skull, because this mind is the expression of the absolute, infinite beingness. The expression. Mind is not God. It is not divine. It is holy. From this mind, super-substance, substance, ethereal energy, we call it etheric vitality, and matter, all the universes are created. Created, following the divine plan, the absolute, real pleasure of the infinite beingness by its multiplicity, which means the holy archangels. The holy archangels, beings, having their own selfhood, are vibrating in the same frequency with the absolute, infinite beingness, having as their nature the oneness, or the at-one-ment, feeling being one with the absolute, infinite beingness. Not as depending on the absolute, infinite beingness, but as part of the absolute, infinite beingness. So, now, the whole universe, the material universe, the world in which we are living, the world of the three dimensions, is the reflection and the expression of this total wisdom of the absolute, infinite beingness and of these beings, the archangelic orders, expressing the real pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness. Now, there are vast, vast fields of research for a seeker of the truth, and for anybody, just to investigate and learn about this total wisdom of the absolute, infinite beingness in the creation. But, of course, it's not only the material plane, the world of the three dimensions, the only universe, it's only one universe, and we have many universes. Apart from the material universe, which are all solid and all material things, from the galaxies to anything material on our plane, there are other universes, as the ethereal universe, as the so-called psychical universe, which is the mind's substance in certain qualities of the expression of this real pleasure of the infinite beingness. It is the noetical universe. Then it is the noetical again, the universe. Beyond, the human intelligence cannot pierce beyond this. The church is calling them the seven skies of the kingdom of heaven, which is in us, as Joshua the Godman revealed to us. Now, a human being is a being immortal and eternal, who has never been created as spirit in the absolute, infinite beingness. A self-ego, different though from the self-egos of the holy archangels, is a spirit reflecting itself through the total wisdom of the almightyness with the cooperation and the help of the brother archangels, and this reflection is the soul. Now, the soul and the spirit-ego are one. One, the one in its everlasting beingness, and the other one in existence now also. In existence, enters the world of existence, the macrocosm, or the absolute infinite beingness, in its absolute infinite selfhood, is incomprehensible. As incomprehensible is to the common human being now its own spirit-self, even the soul, but the soul macrocosmically corresponds to the locus, the manifestation of the will-pleasure of the absolute infinite beingness, now emanating the mind super-substance as the material by which all the universes will be created according to the divine plan. So, a human being apart from its spirit-soul-self is using the mind now as substance. These are reflections of its soul-self, the selfhood. Then, of course, the holy archangels create for the human beings, the spirit-soul, to be humanized and be incarnated, the various bodies to enter in them, use them, enter in them, a ray of himself entering them, not the whole spirit-soul-self, as you find after developing your selfhood super- consciousness. So, and then, these holy archangels, the root of the elements, create for a human being also his material body. So, we have a body corresponding to a relative universe. We have our material body corresponding to the material universe all around us. We have our etheric double of the material body, which is not a body, which corresponds to the ethereal world of the planet, in the planet, around the planet, many kilometers over the planet. We have also our so-called psychical body, the body of our emotions, which corresponds to the emotional counterpart of the planet. And it is the world, the so-called psychical world, the world beyond what is beyond, it's here also, in which we find ourselves after discarding, throwing away the material body, and we find ourselves every night when we are leaving our material body in deep sleep on our bed. So, corresponding to the noetical world of the planet, we have our noetical body, made by the holy archangels. Of course, the noetic nature of us corresponds to the noetic planes of the universes. So, a human being, in his material body and the other bodies, is what we call the microcosm, and everything that's outside is the macrocosm. Not to mention about the mesocosmic, which is the planet, the planet, all the other heavenly bodies. As I said, there is a very, very vast field of investigation for a human being. First to study the nature and the laws and everything concerning the material plane, the material planet. But developing his or her consciousness, a human being can investigate, by using now self-consciously his or her psychical body, the psychical world of the planet. With the psychical body, no one can live the psychical world of the planet. And by developing the consciousness and the self-consciousness to the levels of the noetical body, and using now the noetical body, self-consciously, he can be aware and live self- consciously in what we call the noetical world of our planet, and so on. But, of course, using these bodies, he has to observe the laws on those bodies, and study the laws of the relative universes, which are change of the sense of time, change of the sense of place, space. Though we have in the psychical world the human form we have now in matter, now we have it in substance, the psychical world, yet our form there is not limited to the sense of place. Nobody in the material body with his material body can be in two places at the same time, as no solid thing can occupy the place of another solid thing on the material plane. Yet, the laws of the psychical world are different. You can have the form of the human body, which is, if you want, everywhere on the psychical plane. Just think and feel, and you are there. Now, it's very, very difficult to understand this unless you practice them and you know them by your own personal experience. What do I mean? Even on the material plane, a fellow can be in his body or in her body, here, and yet with the same form can be seen in London, in America, in many other places, in the same form. They recognize you, they know you. You will say, but is it I there? As a soul, yes. As a personality, no. Of course, studying now the orthodox science, the phenomenon of telepathy, can know much more about the conditions and the laws governing what we call the ethereal world of our planet. Now, we are speaking also about the psychical world. Do we have an ethereal body as we have a material body? Yes, of course. Are etheric double? No. The etheric double is the mode in which the material body is built up every moment. But, we can have an ethereal body of our own, which the soul will use in projecting, spreading the self outside of the material body. So, the etheric double of the material body cannot leave the material body, because leaving it, the so-called silver core breaks down, and then what we say is a phenomenon of death of the material body, not of you. It will occur. But, can we travel in what we say is the ethereal world of our planet with our psychical body? Of course, we carry that with us also, but we have to construct an ethereal body, which is a kind of elemental of our self, and we can keep it. Cast only one. A good number of our person, we can just spread as elementals, and be aware of what is happening in every place we send this elemental of our self. Of course, this is a different thing from being self-conscious in what we say is the psychical world. The same can be repeated in the psychical world. But still, we have our form, our individual form, our own form, with our characteristics, with the characteristics of our self. But, of course, to understand what is the self, a soul, and the self, a spirit, it's not an easy thing. Unless you develop your so-called self-consciousness now to those higher levels, which are possible, permitted, yes, to become even as perfect as our Heavenly Father is perfect, because we are gods. As spirit, soul beings, we are gods, expressing a self on the material plane as our personality. So, our personality is in the world of limits, not our self and the other bodies, which we have to learn to use them. And we can use them. Now, we say that so that the material body to exist must have its mold, in which everything is built up, and that mold is changing, so that the body is changing. It starts from the spermatozoon. Everything undergoing a human being, from the time of conception to the time of passing over to the psychical world, is the creation of the holy archangels of the elements, using the mold, changing the mold, and by that changing the material body. And that mold starts from the spermatozoon. So, we have a mold changing all the time, and on it, it changes the material body. And that mold is not only the form of the human body. In it, there is every vein, every artery, every organ in that mold. Just consider the wisdom of these holy archangels of the elements, just keeping that mold for each one of us, changing it, and materializing that change in our material body. We start from the spermatozoon. This mold changes, and then on it is built every instant, not every moment, every moment, the material body. A great work. So, to know more about this etheric double, we have to contact these holy archangels, who are creating it, and by observation, and using the mind, learn the way they are working, and we can do the same, because we are gods as they are gods. When we grow up to that level of even the self-consciousness of our present personality, they are willing to contact us, because they are loving us. They are working in your body, whether you deserve it or not. They are working in your bodies, building the body, and if you don't interfere in a stupid way, to interfere in what we call the health of the material body, they are building most wisely. And every kind of illness is just this bad way of our living that makes this phenomenon called illness. Illness is unnatural. The health is natural. And in spite of what we are doing, causing to our material bodies, this illness, they insist to keep it in good order. To close down wounds, to join broken bones. This we have just to acknowledge it, know it, and study it. So, we can do that by starting knowing the existence of our etheric double of our material body and start using it consciously. You are using it already subconsciously. But you have now to study the nature of the etheric double of this mould and use it. At least consciously. A letter, self-consciously. Now, this etheric double has the form on which form the whole body and every organ is to be built up. But, at the same time, it radiates an aura all around it which we can see. From the change of the colours of this aura we can understand the condition of the health of that fellow or his or her emotional and medical life. But, of course, this is not something interesting as greatly. What is interesting right now is just to know it and start using it consciously. I said we are using it always. Subconsciously. How? As kinetic ether. One of the qualities of this etheric double is that etheric vitality in the etheric double of our body to be constantly under motion, movement. One of its nature is what we call the kinetic ether. Using the kinetic ether, the holy archangels are building up the material body. Now, another quality of this etheric double is what we call the feeling-giving ether or the aesthetic ether. Now, the kinetic ether, we are using it all the time, subconsciously. By getting up, moving our material body here or there, moving hands, feet, and even getting with our hands certain skills. We are using the etheric double as the kinetic ether subconsciously. Now, the aesthetic ether, we are using it subconsciously, feeling we are living. You know you are living. You feel it. The kinetic ether of your etheric double, that you feel you are living, even unconsciously. So, we have to use now this quality of the etheric double, consciously at first, and later develop this self-consciousness and use it self-consciously. Another quality of the etheric double is what we call imprinting ether. And this imprinting ether is the reflection of the noetical and psychical worlds in the human body, in the brains. It is through the brains we are thinking, subconsciously. We are receiving through the five senses impressions from outside, knowing the existence of all those things in a subconscious way, without understanding it. This is how a common man is living, man or a woman. Let us see now how do we use this super substance of the mind as seeing and understanding. How are eyes? Eyes are little balls. How big they are. A liquid in them. An optic nerve. And the eye is just created most wisely by the holy archangels and kept in good order to receive what we call the light, the rays of the light. What is our life on the material plane? More than the reflection of the light. Light emanates from the sun. Another vast field of investigation. The light, the material light, because apart from the material light, there are other forms of light. The material light's characteristic is reflection. Striking on surfaces and reflected. Coming back. Or towards us. Seeing. What is seeing? Just interpreting these rays of light. Nothing more than that. Now, there is an object somewhere. The light. Striking on it and reflected. Coming to us. If you stand in front of you, you see the things there. Very, very small in the eye. As a mirror. So those microscopic pictures, images, give an irritation to the optical nerve. Inside the eye. That irritation is passing over in a place. In the human brain. Causing again a vibration. And you, a mysterious entity in the body now, awakened. You see. No, we interpret vibrations and nothing more than that. You see things. Now, are you there also? No. Or you are confined inside the skull. Of course, I cannot reveal much on it. I'm not allowed to reveal more. You are also there. But you must just develop the self-consciousness to know. Is it the human eye necessary to see the common man? Yes, of course it is. It is. But when you develop your self-consciousness to higher levels, beyond the material body, you don't need it. Just as if I am asking you to communicate with somebody. Is it necessary to have a telephone and the wire? Most necessary if you are to use the telephone and with the material brains. But now you can use the wireless. Which was unknown before, some years. So I'm telling you, to the developed self-conscious being, the material brain is nothing more than a handful of earth matter. And that thing, by the death of the material body, will decay. If that was the source of my self-consciousness, then I shouldn't live beyond the death of the material body. Now, we are just seeing the light in its various vibrations. How can we be sure about that? We see far away a tree. Just a greenish mass. Cannot see much. In this distance from which you see it. And if you get a telescope, you see everything on the tree. You put birds in the branches, as if you are there. Which means that the light is reflected according to the distance, place, space, which has to be studied. It's changing distances. So you can, with certain means, magnifying glass or a telescope, just disentangle these rays coming to you by the distance and see things as if you are there. I say there are vast, vast fields of investigation on the phenomena of light on which depends our whole life on the planet. And unless you develop all these things and study them, how will you understand the laws concerning the ethereal light, the psychical light, the noetical light, the everlasting, unsetting light? Light is not only if you are emanating from the sun. And Christ, Joshua the Christ, said, I am the light of the world. He didn't say, I am the light emanating from the sun. He said, I am the light of the world. Now, through the etheric double, using, now subconsciously, this imprinting ether we can interpret all those vibrations producing in certain centers of our material brain the images all around us of everything we see, subconsciously. How can we use now, consciously, the light? Well, I say something more. By being there. By projecting yourself beyond the vibrations of the human brain. Which means projection of the self. Projecting what? Either an elemental of yourself there or projecting the whole self of you there. There are ways of learning that. But it needs a long, long training of many centuries. Until you develop what we call the self-consciousness of the personality then, because we are still on the personality of a man or a woman. We are not on the higher levels of the self-consciousness. We are on the levels of the consciousness, waking consciousness. So, if you succeed to reach to those levels everybody, sooner or later, will reach there. Not in this incarnation. In other incarnations. Because we are way back to ourselves. When? When you stop being intoxicated by the phenomena of life and matter around you. And especially getting yourself free from that, that great enemy which is the feeling of possessiveness. Possessing something which is outside of yourself. But it needs just to study conditions and understand the nature around you. Now you have to study now our so-called etheric double. As kinetic ether aesthetic or feeling- giving ether imprinting ether in the course of time being faithful developing these qualities in us the archangels wouldn't trust to the one developing the creating ether. Which they are using in building up the parts of your material body and keeping them in good order. And by learning that you are learning what you call materialization dematerialization and even changing the nature of matter transmutation even of metals of everything. But you are not supposed to become magicians or black magicians. There are dangers in our way of development. So have in mind these are the four natures of the mind etheric double which is in your body and around your body. You don't know it. You use it subconsciously without knowing how you do things but you have to learn using it now consciously. Which way? Concentration. It is fixing the attention through the etheric double on a certain thing outside but you can do it inwardly in visualization. You study things outside using the imprinting ether. Now you can use it inwardly by what you call introspection or looking within. Because there is no other way to know yourself even as the present day personality. Because you have to start from the present day personality of a man or a woman slowly, slowly developing and going up the ladder of knowledge. Now using the imprinting ether we can come in contact with our nautical body because it is a reflection of the nautical body. Developing the etheric double and the qualities of the etheric double we develop at the same time our nautical body. Developing what we call kinetic and aesthetic ether we are causing a development in our so-called psychical body. So all those bodies the material body with the etheric double the ethereal body the psychical body and the nautical body are connected and one is influencing the other. And we should learn how to use them separately and together. I say it needs sincerity with your personal self now wishing to know the truth and disentangling your personality self from the illusions of the material world. Now you say we have to give up many, many things from the material world. No! Of course not! This is stupid because God has created everything and everything created by the Holy Archangel and God is good. All things are materialized in admiring the material world which created by the Holy Archangel all around us is a paradise. Who cares about the material world from this point of view? One cares about things of the material world he is calling his own and craving all the time more and having nothing in reality. For no matter how much you call yours suppose you become blind what of all those possessions mean anything to you now? Not being able to see them. So these are things one should study. So the thesis study now for everybody is using the mind studying the qualities of the etheric double use the etheric double consciously now instead of subconsciously then developing his or her self-consciousness or the personality self to higher levels until you reach the real light. Which light? What light? Apart from the light emanating from the sun. You can find it in the Bible in the Gospel of St. John which is this light beyond