Daskalos-May-25-1992-A-Heaven-or-Hell Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us, while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil. For Thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting Yourself, in Yourself, as Your total wisdom and Your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand You as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect Your love towards You, and towards all other human beings. Amen. In many lessons, we said, what is, always, is the everlasting life, for God. The absolute, infinite reality. The absolute, infinite beingness. There was no time where this absolute reality, this absolute, infinite beingness, the absolute selfhood, was not in its own nature. So, human intelligence, all through these centuries, tried to understand, what is this life? What is life? They are living beings. They saw phenomena of life all around them, on the material world. Man found himself living in a material body, in a material world. Other phenomena of life are living as phenomena of life, in the material world. The cross-material world. But what is the difference now, between a human being, as a phenomenon of life, and all the other phenomena of life all around? Man, the vegetable kingdom, the animal kingdom. So, there was a difference. Lions. All through these centuries, remained lions. And lambs, remained lambs, and cows, cows. And apes, remained apes. The apes are not our ancestors. Nothing more blasphemous than what Darwin said. Apes are still apes, in the forest. But what is the difference now, between a human being, and any kind of animals all around us, on the material world? This. We said, animals remain animals. They express simply, a form of the mind, as instinct. They have that instinctive consciousness, kind of sensibility. Nothing more than that. Under their instincts, they eat. Yes, sleeping also, waking, going around, searching for their food, one way or the other. The vegetarians, the animals eating grass, different from the others, who are eating flesh. All of them are following their instinct. The human being is different now. We see him, all through these centuries, being a caveman, with a club in his hand. Starting, using, even subconsciously, the mind, as thought, to protect himself. This is the difference between the animal life, and the human beings. Now, he is improving, all through these centuries. He started thinking, who am I, and what am I? No animal has done that until now. To put the question to its species, what they are. They simply graze, eat, live instinctively, born, and pass over, die. Why? Because they are the parts of life, and not life itself. While the human being is the parts of life, as a phenomenon, as a human being, but in that phenomenon, is itself good. No animal has this selfhood. Which means, he or she is, in reality, a god. So, all through these centuries, those wise ones, were engaging themselves, not only with the instinctive necessities of life, how to eat, and this and that, but they started now, using the mind. To investigate, and find the truth. What is life? What can life be? I am a phenomenon of life, just the same as all the other phenomena of life all around me. As a material body, there is no difference. Bones, flesh, blood, organs, under the same material laws, living on the material plane, a phenomenon of life as all the other phenomena of life in the animal kingdom. But who am I now? Then the human being started to think, what is sex? I see male and female persons, in the cave, in the family, later in the community, in the society, everywhere. What is that? What is the aim of that? Who has decided, the human being, to be separated into male and female? Something I see all the phenomena of life around me. They are male and female. And he found out the reason why there was a person, a purpose in prolonging the species. So, he started thinking, apart from the way I am thinking, I am under certain laws. And I obey them. I have to obey them. And all the animal life around me is obeying to these laws. Who has imposed these laws in the material universe? Then the human being started to study the conditions and the laws governing matter. No animal has done that until now. No animal in future will do it. Then the human being, using the mind, subconsciously, not consciously, managed to reach the present stage of development. Great. Man succeeded to build huge buildings. He was building huge buildings at the time of the Egyptians, of the Aztecs, of the Incas. Now more comfortable. He had found electricity, magnetism, and many, many other things, unknown in the past, still existing, waiting for an intelligence to bring them forward. No animal has done that until now. No horse or cow, or ox, engaged its existence in these things. The human being, I say again, using the mind, subconsciously, managed to create computers, make life, let us say, easier, not happier. What is the human being going yet to achieve? Did he master everything? The forces, the powers in nature? What are these powers in nature? Which he is finding out from day to day, as the Orthodox science. Of course, a seeker of the truth has great respect towards those scientists that are supporting the truth in the material world. I said, human beings have found out many, many, many things, and yet they will find more. They managed to fly to the moon. They will master even space. But, is man today living in a palace? Even the poorest house, now today, lighted by electricity and having so many facilities, is better than a palace in the past, just having light with torches, and the walls becoming black with smoke, and breathing that contaminated atmosphere. So now, life is supposed to be easier for everybody. Is human being happier? No. Why? Because he has used the so-called human intelligence subconsciously, using his subconscious mind, in getting knowledge from the outside world, all around him, through the five senses. Now, the five senses, considered from a human point of view, and as the great work of the archangels, in the creation, something great, indeed. But considered from a higher point of view, of the soul, the spirit, it's nearly nothing. So, now knowing our possibilities, and probabilities, we must turn our attention somewhere else. Why all the time outside? And getting images and messages from the outside world, inwardly, placing them subconsciously, in a kind of beingness, which is our present personality. What is our present personality? So, this is what makes man today unhappy. Trying to master everything outside, material, in the material world, without studying, learning, and knowing who he or she is. What's life? Which is our way? We are going towards what? Mastering all the time the outside world, the material plane, and just satisfying a certain nature of us, which we have to study, yet we don't study it, and we are its slaves, which is desire. Who cares what is a desire? What he cares is how to satisfy his desires, enslaving the mind to the desires. Becoming rich, becoming powerful, just getting authority. Yes, that's what the human beings are doing today, everywhere. Now, is it bad just to use, even subconsciously, the mind, in becoming rich? No. Of course not. What is wrong is enslaving the self to the material world. There is nothing wrong in wine. What is wrong is becoming drunkard, not using it, and just abusing it. That's the same with everything outside, material. That's why a human being is unhappy. What is happiness then? God has given us the mind. We said in a lesson that everything is the mind. Everything solid is solid mind. Because the mind, as we said in a lesson, emanates from the absolute infinite beingness and the absolute infinite beings, the Archangels, to express the absolute infinite beingness. And the Archangels, with pleasure of manifesting themselves in themselves, that means being life, to expand life as phenomena of life. So they did, by using the mind as supersubstance. Now, do we have the right to use the mind ourselves? But you have to put in your mind now, but the same mind is not that handful of matter which is in the skull, which you call brains. That's matter. Mind is everywhere. The supersubstance, the substance, the ethereal substance matter and matter, everything is mind. Now, can we use the supersubstance of the mind ourselves? Are we allowed to do it? But we are using it subconsciously. How did we manage to create so many things around us? Computers, beautiful houses, and everything, by using the mind subconsciously? Since we have the right to do that, why don't we have the right to use it consciously and then self-consciously? And what do we gain by using the mind consciously and self-consciously? Nor say, what does it mean using the mind consciously and self-consciously? In which way will we know that? By observation, meditation, to see what comes after that. Using concentration, meditation, there must be a result of it. What is the result of it? Concentration of the mind. If I have a magnifying glass and I concentrate a few rays of the sun on a sheet of paper, it will catch fire. That's a phenomenon. By the concentration, through some means, the magnifying glass, of the sun's rays. Otherwise, everywhere are the rays of the sun, and we feel cold. We have a cold sun during the winter. Yet, a few of those rays can make a paper catch fire. Such is the mind. Concentration and meditation. Using the rays, the material rays, of the magnifying glass. Concentrating a few rays of the mind's super substance, and you see the result. Which means knowing whatever you want to know, by concentrating the mind on these things we know. It's leading us to knowledge. And still more and more and more. But we have just to find a way of doing it. So, the secret now is to use the mind in the right way. We are using it in the wrong way now. Definitely. And how? By enslaving the mind to serve so many petty unbridled desires. From morning to night. Desiring, desiring, desiring, changing desires and just enslaving the mind in this or that or that desire to serve that or that emotion. And we call that life. That is not life. That is the way that makes a human being unhappy. How is the right way of using the mind? And what the mind, by using it in the right way, will offer me? First of all, what it is offering me now, using it in this way. This you have to study. And using it in the right way, that means not enslaving it to serve the desires, the emotions and all the human expressions, what do I gain? Now, using it subconsciously can gain many, many things, wealth, everything. In using it in the wrong way, desiring and enslaving the mind's desires, I project, I create elementals. What are the elementals? You have to study these things. And by studying these things, we find out that our whole personality now, having as its backbone our egoism, which we make the mistake to consider it as our self, is leading us to unhappiness, to confusion. So, as we said in the lesson, whatever we see, without thinking about it, whatever, after seeing it, had excited in us and created a desire to approach it, to touch it, to know it, to have it, to possess it, whatever made us think subconsciously, how to serve the desire, creates an elemental. Now, can you imagine how many elementals you are creating all through the day? Many. Many. And during the night? Yet, during the night, while sleeping, you are creating elementals, continuing the work instinctively and subconsciously. And then, what is the result? The sum total of these elementals, good or bad, I would not call them evil, are composing your present personality. You make the mistake to think that it is yourself. This is the wrong use of the mind, just creating unchecked elementals and composing them into our existing selfhood. But we said the self is God. Yes. It is God. So the personality of a man has its inner nature, which is God, the selfhood, but now, in time and place, the material world, by making bad use of the mind, creates a new entity, which is the human being as it is today. So what is a human being now, a man or a woman? A God covered with illusions, which he has to set himself free from all these illusions. Those elementals. Because these elementals cannot be seen by the human eyes. But if you develop what I call clairvoyance, you can see them. Because they have, as their body, the ethereal mind-matter-substance. They have a form. And if you see them, you will be frightened by what you are creating, especially when desires are unbridled, just strong, and create what we call human weaknesses, hatred, enmity, jealousy, the feeling of taking revenge, of destroying what belongs to others and you didn't have the chance of gaining. And if you see in yourself what you call your subconsciousness, which is nearly a jungle, you will be frightened. So, a God covered with mud, a material body, and dirty substance, which you call unbridled desires, passions, weaknesses, and under just this false behavior of enslaving the mind, the holy mind, the mind is holy, to the service of petty, unholy desires, most of the times. Is that not what a human being is doing nearly every day? And then you are wondering, why there is so much unhappiness in the world, so much confusion, so much dissatisfaction. So, education, directing subconsciously the mind towards a certain way, this is just the force of the mind. You can gain the powers in your concentration, which means you can become a scientist, knowing many, many things, a physician, and all that. Get skills and abilities which means knowing much, much more than the others what concerns the material world around us. What is the game? You have many, many scientists, I have seen too many, doctors of medicine with degrees, masters and all that, and doctorates who with the least provocation they are upset, they are getting angry, slapping their wives, kicking their children. What is the use of that education? It is becoming unhappy, feeling unhappy. So, present day education, I cannot say it is not good, but it is not enough, which means man should not all the time just concentrate on outside things, which he is getting through the five senses, storing them in his so-called subconsciousness. But now, he should start studying, what am I? What is this subconsciousness of mine? What is this personality of mine? What is the thing that makes me unhappy? What is life? Am I now living in the right way? Is the infinite divine life projecting itself, humanizing me, having that intention of making a creature unhappy? Of course not. So, now one should start getting inward, in himself, to find himself, and study what is life? What are these elementals composing my present day personality? What is the nature and the quality of my so-called subconsciousness? Living. Now, I am living in a material body. One should study what is the material body. How is the material body? There is a lesson before some days, studying the body of a young man. You know, what is the body of any young man? As organs, and as a human body. Studying the body of a young woman, you know, how is the body of any young woman? Same organs, the same place. But we never study a human being by studying another human being as a character, as a person. Never. Two men or women are alike the same, which means that the personality of a man is not the product of their material bodies. Then, by studying the matter, we find out that we are not the material body. The material body is given us to live in, recompose ourselves every morning after entering in a kind of non-existent period during the night, recomposing our personality, not ourselves, our personality. Mary is recomposing Mary, and George is recomposing George, who is not annihilated by passing in that non-existent period of dreamless life. Who is that kind of personality? Being able to recompose itself. It is able to recompose itself the next day as Mary and as George because the nature of it is God. It is the selfhood. This needs study to find who we are and what we are. Who we are? A name, a body, and a way of living. This is what we are. And what we are? In who we are, it is always changing. Not a personality is the same as the other person. But now, what we are? What we are is unchanging. It is all the same in every human being. It is God. It is our real selfhood. Then we have to study what is that self. No animal can express a self. Human beings, being gods, their nature is the selfhood. And the right and the ability of using the mind in knowing things. Using the mind. How? At the beginning, through the material brains. At the beginning. But in developing the so-called consciousness, later what we call self-consciousness, as a step or two above the subconsciousness, we find out that we are not in need anymore of the material brains to think and express ourselves and receive impressions from any world, not only the cross-material world, but also the other worlds, the psychical and the medical worlds. Then we find out that the scene on which we have to express ourselves is not only the material plane, that means one-third of the surface of the planet. There are other worlds of other dimensions. And other dimensions. Did ourselves know that? Yes, of course they knew. And they were moving freely there. And those wise ones in the past were just describing these worlds. Christ! Why Christ was humanized? The locust directly was humanized and incarnated into a human being. Just to wake us up, to teach us that we are gods, just living and behaving like animals. That's his ministry on the earth. And so, he spoke about his father, he spoke about himself being also part of the father, being one with the father, which means he spoke to us about what we call atonement or oneness. It's there in the Bible. These are degrees of the consciousness we have to develop just to reach the self- realization, to understand who we are. But you cannot do that unless you develop in your present personality the self-superconsciousness transmuting this present personality into its real self, which is God. This is our way. So our way is not only what we call today human education in a profession, in a direction, in getting degrees, and certain skills and abilities about that and that branch of science. I said that's good, very, very good, but not adequate. We have to find out who we are, what we are, and develop our self-superconsciousness. I said before we have to use our material brains for the time being. But when you master, what I say, exosomatosis, getting outside of your body, you don't need the material brains anymore. The material body is lying on a bed, and the material brains, they are inactive, yet you are thinking and behaving in a better way as a selfhood, which means you don't need to leave the human brains. Yes. Man found out just to communicate in great distances, having what you have, a telephone. To have a telephone, you need the same means, electricity, that power. In the wires, you need wires. You need a receiver, the broadcasting thing to talk with. Yes, for years and years we were using what is the telephone. And now we are using the telephone again. And we can talk in great distances from America to Cyprus, to Germany, to England, through the wire. But we don't need it anymore. We have the wireless now. We don't need the wire. We can use the force around it, which is electricity, cosmic electricity, in conveying messages without the wire. Which means we are using the material brain. Yes, it's a kind of telephone, through the nervous system and all that. But we can learn just to use what we call now the wireless, which is a higher stage of our consciousness. Which means we are now using the material brains subconsciously to store up in our subconsciousness through the material brain, making images and things through sight, seeing. It is the subconscious way. When you raise your consciousness to what we call waking consciousness, you are developing different abilities. Of conceiving and living. But raising your consciousness to the self now consciousness, you don't need the material brain and the material body any longer. You can get out fully conscious of who we are, even as a personality, not as a soul in the beginning. And what do you find out? That the death of the material body means nothing. It is not annihilating your personality as Mary and George. And you can find yourself as Mary and George in what we call the psychical world, which is where? Here! We just change frequencies of vibrations. Vibrations from that to that rate give us the matter. Higher it gives us the ether. The air, the ether, and then the psychical world. And then the noetical world. So the only world of existence is not the solid matter, earth and soil, or the material body. So leaving the material body you still exist as you are today, a man or a woman, a name, how? We shall say how. You are sleeping at night. In every 24 hours you have to pass through that state which we call dreamless. Sleeping. Where are you then? Where? You are not in the material body. The material body is there. The heart, yes, it beats more slowly now. Where are you? You have to pass through some time in a state of non-existence. Yet you wake up in the morning and you recompose that self of yours into your personality, Mary and George. Entering the material body starts from the beginning. Returning back from the non-existent state you are never left to what you were before sleeping. So you recompose the personality since your self is God. What is death? Leaving your material body and recomposing your personality as it was before passing away. Passing away? You are passing away during the night. You are not in the material body but you are returning to it. Now you don't need to come back to the material body. You are leaving it to decay, to pass away. But you recompose yourself in the morning in the material body. Now, by the death of the material body you recompose your personality again because you are God. It is your selfhood who can do that into your psychical body. Then you find yourself in the psychical world which is for you then as real as the material world. Can you not do that while being in the material body, living in the material body? Of course you can. But you need training, long training to recompose the self consciously when you reach the self consciousness in the psychical world. Here. Many can do it. Then we call that self conscious exosomatosis out of the body. That's life. Better life. Finding yourself where? The psychical world is here. It is the psychical body of our planet. Finding ourselves where? In a hell. Or in a paradise we have created now. I call it a shell hell. Somewhere in the psychical world. But the psychical world is nice and perfect. In scenery. Whatever we have on the material plane we have them on the psychical plane. And much, much, much more. And better. In the material world the change is quick. Flowers wither. Animals die. And all that. In the psychical world it is not so. Things there are more durable and more real. In different kind of light. It is not light emanating from the sun as it is on the material plane. But in the psychical plane everything is self lighted. I am speaking from personal experience. There is no comparison between the psychical world and the material world. It is the underground. The dark underground of a huge building. Our material world. There are other stories. Another flood.