Daskalos - On the Subconsiousness Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions, as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us while being in temptation. And deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute infinite beingness God, everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your mightiness in your omnipresence. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. I had before some days a question by a German, well, well educated, having even the title of a doctor, philosophy. He was talking to me and he said, really, this word Christian, Christianity, I don't like it. I was born, he says, as a Protestant. My father was a Protestant. My mother was Catholic. Then I went to the Catholic religion again, but I am detested. I have kicked away all these kinds of religion. And really the word Christian and Christianity and Christ is making me sick. He started laughing. I said, look here, you don't like it and you like to find a way. Well, I told him, don't call yourself a Christian and be one. He said, be one? Yes. What does it mean, be one? Love your enemies. Love those who love you. Love your neighbor. Do you agree to that? He said, yes. And then you are a Christian. What do you think that Christ really came to teach you? If you don't like the system, the dogma, and of course the behavior of the priests, that's a different matter. Don't call yourself a Christian and be one. There is no other way. The way of the heart, purifying the heart and using the mind in the reasonable and logical way. There is no other way. Which means that we must see what the absolute beingness God gave us. Life. The right to preach, to eat, and live in our material body. Give these substances to the archangels to build our material body. That's good, but still better it is to use the mind. A super substance, substance and ether and everything, to make our life comfortable on the planet and the life of all around us comfortable by loving people, understanding people, not allowing the devil of egoism in us to torture other people and at the end we are torturing ourselves. Nobody can torture another man and not torture himself in the same way. So, let us not call ourselves Christians, because I'm telling you, in other religions, in Buddhism, in Brankheim Humanism, among the Muslims, there are people who are using these powers of the mind as reasoning and loving, who will find their way. So, it is not only the words, it is the actions and the disposition that really count. When asked by some disciples, Christ, that certain people, sir, are doing that, they are doing that and that, shall we stop? He said, no. Those who are not against us are with us. And I have many, many sheep who do not belong to this herd I call mine. That's clear. Joshua said that in the Bible. So, should not think fanatically as Christians that nobody can be saved if he's not baptized with a Christian name and is called a Christian. We should not go to the other side of fanaticism. I had the visit before two years of a Hindu, good yogi, very good yogi, who gained psychical powers, that fellow. He was a doctor of philosophy, teaching in the University of Delhi. He came without just saying who he was. He entered the door, came in my room, I was sitting, looking at me. Of course, he was dressed like a European, nobody could understand, he was well shaved, with nothing to understand that he's a Hindu, except the color. But anyhow, the color of the Hindus have many symbols like that, and others. He came, sat there. Of course, I had a lady in my house from Greece. I have asked her, would you please prepare two cups of coffee for both of us? She said, yes. She went and prepared, the man came with it, he's putting it on the table there. Without saying any word, this fellow, with the power of his thought and using what are called telekinesis, he got the little plate with the cup of coffee, brought it to him, looking at me, if he had impressed me. I started smiling. Of course, I knew who he was without any introduction. He told me with his thought. Then he finished it. I got it from his hands from far away, brought it back and put it in place. You're looking at me just in wonder. I said, why you have done that? You have done nothing. That's nothing. Just with training, just to project, I said, your etheric double, and with visualization, you can do it. What do you think you have done? He didn't waste the time at all. Instead of replying, he saw me like that and he put me the question in Sanskrit. What's the truth? I started laughing. I said, me, you, God, everything is the truth. The manifestation I told him, just in Sanskrit, of the total wisdom and the real pleasure of God. He said, yes, this is what I found out also. He said, as hot as you want. I've read the Bible from the beginning to the end. Yes? There is everything good. I like it. It's very good. But there is something really I didn't like at all. Hot was it, I told him. The Bible says that Christ said nobody can go to the Father and nobody can be saved except through me. True, I told him. What about us, he said, who are not Christians? Who told you you are not a Christian? Do you think you are not? He said, no. I'm a Brahmin. I started laughing. Look here. You said you read the Bible. Well, did you read, I said, St. John? Only the first, I said, sentences about the locus and Joshua is the locus. What does it say? It says there, in him is life, and the life is the light of men, which means the self-consciousness of every human being. And Christians believe that he is the Agnus Dei, Ketoli, Pagada Mundi, the Lamb of God who raised the sins of the world. He said, who told you that that principle, don't call him Joshua the Christ, call him principle of love, of understanding, of the mind, of the self-consciousness, is not in you. So, through your self-consciousness, you will go, I said, to his salvation. He said, no. He said, here, as you put it, I accept it. I said, it's not Christians only, those baptized belonging to one dogma or the other dogma by a priest presenting his hand to get paid. I said, it's very different. Yes, it is through him, the principle of love and understanding. That's Christianity. I'm telling you, most people are good Christians without calling them so and without knowing it. And there are many stupid people calling themselves Christians and they slap you if you tell them they are not Christians, who are not at all Christians, hating the others, fighting the others, and kneeling before a satanic idol called personal egoism. Now, in our order of the research of the truth, the first duty, I'm just advising people, is to annihilate completely or kill the personal egoism and clean the heart from everything which is hostile to human beings. There is only one gate to the heavens, the heart. Joshua gave the Beatitudes. He gave a code of behavior in these Beatitudes. But the best is the one saying, blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Only through the heart one can see God. So, before starting anything else to do and claiming to have the right to spiritual development, the heart should be cleaned. There should never be in your heart any feeling, even as complained against any other human being, because under the roots of the truth of complaining is the serpent of hatred, sleeping. Don't wake it up. So, it is the discipline of the heart. How can we do that? Yes, that's the way. By starting using the mind and the brain as reasonable thought and as observation, checking your emotions, checking your desires, checking your dispositions in life, your purposes in life. Just checking what you do in the society around you, at home, in the office, in the street, everywhere. This is using the mind now and observation and reasoning, free from the influences of a personal egoism, all the time intervening, just to find out what's desire, what's thought, what can I do with them, what I was doing until now with them, being their slave, the slave of certain desires, the slave of certain thoughts, as beliefs, fanaticism, which leads to what? To obstinacy. So, one has to study things all around and within. And really, cleaning should be inside. Then we shall start knowing the nature of the mind, a super substance, substance, ether, and substance, and start now creating good elementals, constructing elementals, and then the way how to disenergize elementals, casting them to the cosmic consciousness of the planet, freeing ourselves from their influence and all the others from their influence. So, it needs training and sincerity with yourself how to do it. So, this is the way back where? To the truth. Which truth? What you are. And why? What for? To save yourself from the troubles, to enjoy life, to understand what's life. Life is good, instead of having life as an intolerable burden on your shoulders. Because if I ask 100 people, 100 persons, are you now satisfied of your life? Are you satisfied of life? How many do you think they will say they are? Why should not all be satisfied of living, being themselves the life? Why should they be influenced by the surroundings which they and the others have created, causing pain, misery, and agony, and a modern word now, angst. Is that what you call it? That's a new invention now, and you have it in all the languages of the world. It is Greek word. It is a new invention for masochism. Yes. Now, we should get rid of it by right thinking and sincerity with ourselves. Now, there is another point you have to note. You are not just to go to the other way or become a real masochist, avoiding to be a masochist, which means, oh, what am I? A sinner. A lost one. That's stupid. Don't criticize yourself even. Don't criticize others, and don't criticize yourself. Study, understand the true state of things, and get rid of them. Don't go against yourself. That's stupid. And believe me, the egoism, not having either way to torture you, will use that. Repentance. I don't understand this word. Instead of repentance, I would say real understanding. Well, it's not real understanding. A kind of repentance with a better word now, instead of having masochistic tendencies in it. So, knowing things, freeing yourself from these tortures and pain and agony is what it should be, and not start accusing either others or yourself. So, what is the aim of everybody, not only the seekers of the truth, is to get advantage of the holy, divine gift of the mind, and use it as reasonable thought. I say again, the poorest man in money, and in material things, he's very, very rich. By using his real treasures, thinking, the mind, and thanks God, he gave to every human being this right of using the mind. So, there is no excuse. And I said in a lesson, the mind is the substance with which we will build up either our hell or our paradise, our prison or our palace. This is the way of thinking. And the dispositions of the heart, because in the heart are all the hells and all the paradises. That's the gate towards the hell or towards the paradise. What do we have to purify the heart? Because if it's not purified, we'll be in darkness, and we need light. Who are from who shall get the light? We are the light. Our self-consciousness, using the mind, is the light. You realize it after you start practicing reason. Now, we said about the elementals. One of the duties is just to study these elementals already composing your present personality or your subconsciousness. We are losing many, many, many hours aimlessly. Why should we not dispose some time in introspection, that means looking within, checking how is now our subconsciousness or our personality. It is the same. It is synonym. What are the defects? What do we have just to take out and what to put in our subconsciousness? Study the nature of the subconsciousness. Now, I'm telling you something very, very important, which you have in your mind. This subconsciousness is a storehouse. Half of it is in our hands, and we made it very, very, very dirty and filthy, but smelling. And the ruler of this part of the storehouse is a devil called personal egoism. And we, we are slumbering without suspecting that we are not that egoist master of that part of our storehouse, our subconsciousness. The other half is in the hands of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Archangels, get the divine substance, and with it they are feeding our bodies, building our bodies. So, everything is one in that side. And from that other side comes and rushes in that dirty side the substance of the mind we are using, making it dirty. So we ask about our daily bread, we spoil it and then we eat it. We don't eat it, pure and good. So, but in between these two states, by the egoism and by the Holy Archangels is built a new state of things, which is called the subconsciousness. Now, with another meaning, the subconsciousness, or we call it the subconscious mind. And this is a power keeping some balance. This kind of subconsciousness, not our subconsciousness, but that subconsciousness we must know and cooperate with it. Of course, cleaning our subconsciousness, we purify that side of that general subconsciousness, which is for every human being. What is the quality of this mind subconscious? First of all, it is not reasoning. It is a neutral ground. And from it are getting the life and the power, the etheric vitality, the three bodies. And by the suggestions we make, becoming auto-suggestions, that part of the subconsciousness is working, controlling the mind. So everything which happens to a human being comes from this side of his existence, I call the subconscious mind. Let me not call it subconsciousness. I repeat it. It is not reasoning, but obeying suggestions and orders. Whatever you say and you believe will influence your material body, your psychical and your nautical body. And it is that part, Joshua the Christ said, he who has faith and knows, with that subconsciousness can tell the mountain, go away and it will go. Now, how does the subconsciousness work? There was a fellow who was practicing hypnotism. He was a doctor. Of course, it's many, many years I have seen myself this thing. It was summer. Fellow, half in trance, not completely in trance, naked from the navel upwards, it was summer, was looking at the eyes of the hypnotizer. A fellow was roaming about in front of him with a cigarette. Just making it bright. Then going behind him, that fellow was influenced. That fellow was just going around. Then in a moment, the doctor said, no, no, don't do it. Don't do it. Of course, he was scared. What is he going to do? No, don't put your cigarette on the shoulder of this fellow. Why you should do this stupid thing? And the fellow touched that fellow with a pencil. That fellow was influenced. That fellow was shrieking as being burned. When the pencil was away, the burn was there, as if the cigarette was placed there. Now, some are doing performances on the stage. Hot performances. They put in trance a fellow. They tell him, they suggest him, you become light as a feather. And you see what they say, levitation. The body becomes very light, going up. You can see this phenomenon now. They are doing it, unfortunately, on the stage, instead of studying all these cases scientifically. So, there is what we call the subconscious mind. In between, I said, our personality and gets all the day suggestions. If you see somebody with cancer, and you are afraid, oh, I got this. Maybe that's cancer. Cancer will come. And if you have cancer, real cancer, test it. Say, no, that will go. It will go. Day and night, I see all these things with people coming to me. So, most of the people are playing stupid games to themselves with their subconsciousness. It's better for psychiatrists and psychiatric healers to know all this about the subconscious mind and how to work with it. So, when you want to get rid of something, an illness or some evil, emotionally or mentally, take it out from your mind. Be disinterested. Forget it. And order it to go. It will go. Now, certain weaknesses, you want to get rid of it. Alcoholism, adultery, gambling, even stealing and all that. If you fight them, you will not succeed to overcome them. The more you think and fight them, the more strong they become in pressing you. If you want to get rid of anything, take out of it your interest. Forget it. Let it go. It will be dis-energized and go to the cosmic consciousness. This is how we must work with our subconscious mind. I do not call it subconsciousness. Which is in our personality. And which is the hour, the best hour to work with it and implant these suggestions. The time you are feeling sleepy and you go to bed, just that time, say what you want. It will obey you. If you don't have a watch, say, tomorrow I want to get up at six o'clock. And you sleep on it. When you wake up and see on your watch, it will be six o'clock. Who woke you up? So, this is a branch of study, scientifically, the subconsciousness. I had another example. Before some years, I was in a village. There was a man who never felt ill. He was about 28 years of age, a farmer. Strong, he would kill himself. Knock on the wall, it would come down. He was going out just to sow wheat in his field. Two doctors, a pathologist and a psychiatrist, started thinking. They said, no, we shall just experiment with that fellow. I said, no, don't do these stupid things. They said, no, we don't care. So, they saw him coming out of his house in the morning, going to the fields, whistling and singing. Giovanni came to him and said, hallo, Gianni. He said, hallo. Hallo, doctor. He said, early in the morning. He said, I'm making a walk here. But come here, come here. Let me see in your eyes. What do you see in my eyes? Take out from your mouth your tongue to see it. Oh, yes. You are ill. He said, doctor, what are you saying? I am as strong as a bull. What do you say? No, no. These are the symptoms I see in your eyes. Now, let me see here. Your glands here. You suffer from that illness, an inexistent illness he invented in his mind. Now, sooner or later, you will feel shivering. And I suggest that you go to bed from now. It's only two or three days and you'll be all right. But this is just something that the fellow didn't listen to them. He said, come on, doctor. Why have so much work? I have three children to feed. I'll go just to do my work. He said, now, when you feel this shivering, please go to bed. He said, doctor, what do you say? That's what I tell you. He went away. After half an hour, the psychiatrist came on his way, because I knew everything. He went out to the field. He saw Yanis. Hello, Yanis. Hello, doctor. Come here. Let me see your eyes. What the hell you see in my eyes? No. He repeated those nonsense about that illness. Let me see you have fever. Doctor, it is summer. Of course, I am sweating. That isn't fever. No, no, no. Wait. Take out your tongue. You start shivering. He said, it is already that thing. You should be in bed for two or three days. Then the fellow said to the doctor, come on. Go, doctor. I am busy. I have work. Though he didn't accept it, yet subconsciously it was working. The suggestion became subconscious auto-suggestion. And he started shivering. When I saw him coming back, going home, he was making like that. I said, what is Yanis with you? I told him, don't be fooled. It is a trick. They are playing to you. He said, no, it is not. I am ill. He went to bed. In two hours, he had high fever, 40. I told him, now go. You are criminals. Go and tell him the truth. He said, yes, we will go there. They went there. I told him, Yanis, it was just a trick. No, doctor, I am ill. Since I have fever, how is it? Yes, it is that illness. What did you tell me it was that? Of course, in three days, as they told him, he got up and he was strong. What do I mean to say with that? Don't play with your subconsciousness. Don't put ideas in your head. By seeing others suffering, don't think that I will have that, because you will get it. And you deserve to get it, if you just play these tricks with your subconsciousness. So, when you want to get rid of something, take it out of your mind and suggest to yourself the time you will feel just sleepy. No, that will go. And it will go. Now, this branch of study of the subconscious mind should occupy the mind of all psychiatrists, just like you, and all other psychotherapists, because they use certain words now without knowing how they work and the meaning of it. Now, we'll make a meditation. Relax completely. Relax your material body completely. Start from the feet, toes, legs, the navel, the chest, the head. Feel that you are relaxed. Say now with your mind. The Holy Archangels working in your body will hear you. This body of mine, created by the Holy Providence, by the Lord, granted to me to live in it, supervised to have a perfect health, with the Archangels in it, insisting to cure every ill according to my behavior. Yes, I'll call it mine. I will live in it in the proper way, feed it well in the proper way, and love it, thanking them. I will not put in my mind negative thoughts of ill health. I'll take out of my mind every negative thought, every kind of complaint, enmity, hatred against people, which is the cause, subconscious cause, causing illnesses to my material body and to my psychical body. I will control by observation and right thinking all kinds of temptations, coming as desires, ill, uncontrolled emotions, or greediness for something. I know the Locus is in me, in my spirit soul, master of my body, of my bodies, three bodies. So are the Holy Archangels. And ask the Absolute Infinite Beingness through your spirit, ego, self, and lead us while being in temptation, and deliver us from evil, for Thine is the Kingdom and the Power and the Glory. Your body belongs to the Absolute Infinite Beingness, and you live in it. You call it right. I call it Grace, by Divine Grace. Ask Him to continue keeping it in good health. Never leave in your mind, which is your subconscious mind, any negative idea of illness or something you want to get rid of it, because this creates elementals, negative elementals, which are very harmful. Now, feel you are in the heart. See that your heart is a sun with bright light. You feel that your chest is pure, and your heart is a sun radiating golden light. Bring in front of you a person or persons you have differences with them, and maybe you despise them, not to hate them, or feeling you wouldn't like to meet them. Bring them now before you. Don't see them angry. Don't see them displeased. See them smiling, happy. See them, the rays of the sun of your heart is caressing their faces, and tell them you love them. That doesn't mean you need to communicate with them in other way on the material plane. If differences exist and will exist, it is a material. Now you love them on a higher plane. Flood them, light them with the light of the sun of your heart, and see them happy. You can do that to your beloved ones if you like. See beloved ones also in this light of your heart. Then and only then you can call them yours, not with the egoistic feeling. And in this way you are becoming theirs, again not with the materialistic human evil meaning. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you. It is his love, our love, and towards all other human beings. Enough. So, study this thing of the subconscious mind. Don't put suggestions, don't get suggestions from others. Make them suggestions to you which may injure you or your body. Take out from your mind all negative thinking. You don't need it. And again, hatred against other people, when it is in us, in our heart, it is the worst poison for our bodies, causing illnesses. So, a fellow who hates, definitely has the self- punishment in him all the time. And really, feel pity for those hating you, because they are injuring themselves, not you. If you know how to protect yourself from the elementals, they project to you. Feel pity for them. How to protect yourself from the elementals cast on you? By loving them. If you love these people, that elemental will come on you, be dis-energized and go up. If you hate them, even if you are stronger and you attack the elemental, it will come on them with greater force and make them worse, more angry against you, more hateful. So, we extinguish the fire with water. We extinguish hatred and all negative feelings with love. Next week, how many of you will be here still?