Daskalos - What we Believe as Seekers of the Truth - 1993- 05-31 A discourse by Dr. Stylianos Ateslis, known as Daskalos. The identical thing that we now call Christian religion existed among the ancients and has not been lacking of the human race leading up to the coming of Christ in the flesh from which moment on the true religion which already existed began to be called Christian. God who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son whom he hath appointed heir of all things by whom also he made the worlds. God is love and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in him. Absolute truth is a brilliant many-sided diamond. The great light fills this gem and colors gleam from every side. Mystics, messengers, sages and teachers of all ages, races and beliefs have spoken of a different face of this common eternal truth. Monotheistic esoteric Christianity has been unfolding in human consciousness since time immemorial as a clear and concise reflection of the truth. Our system for the research of truth is devoted to the esoteric Christian tradition. Our exploration of the truth and our ever-increasing conscious engagement in absolute beingness's divine plan is achieved through directed study, observation, exercise, prayer and meditation. Our approach is methodical, safe and self-evident. We seek to embrace the holy gifts, insights and revelations bestowed upon us. We aspire to understand and attune ourselves with the divine laws, forms, principles and causes governing life. We work in love's name, patiently and harmoniously. We value the balanced development and integration of our entire being as we cultivate our emotional, moral, spiritual and mystical aspects. Dr. Stylianos Attaslis, popularly known as Daskalos, has been teaching esoteric Christianity and healing for over 70 years. In the late 1980s, Daskalos, having lived a deliberately quiet existence, gained worldwide attention resulting from a number of publications describing his work and life. It was not long after that seekers from the world over began arriving in Strovolos, Cyprus to learn more of what Daskalos was teaching. Daskalos began conducting public lessons in the Stoa to guide the arrivals. Kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself, in your omnipresence as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. My beloved ones, my spiritual children. Today, I'm feeling really very happy being with you all. I'm really today very happy. Just to give you, in detail, what we believe and what is our system concerning the research of the truth. I would like to give you an overview of what we believe and what is our system concerning the research of the truth. Of course, all during these centuries which have passed, enlightened ones have revealed the great reality, which is God. In old Egypt, they called him Amun-Ra. Later, the one, the true God, was called by Al-Kenaten as Ator. Later, the one, the true God, was called by Al-Kenaten as Ator. Confucius in China had spoken about the way, Tao, to God. The Hindus have called him Ishwar. The Hindus have called him Ishwar. And many, many names. Enlightened one, as Confucius said, was the Buddha, the enlightened one. He had approached God more than anybody else in the past. He gave the eightfold noble path. Eight jewels of the truth. And this enlightened one was the one who became the real prophet. Who said to his disciples, 500 years from today, God will be humanized and incarnated directly. This is what the eastern people had in mind and went to worship Christ at his birth. You will find this even in the Gospel. So, all the ways to God are respected. We have to respect all these roads and ways to God. Going through all of them, studying them. You will find very beautiful and fragrant flowers. But also dark bushes. From which are coming out venomous snakes. And in Christianity, you will find the truth as beautiful, fragrant flowers. But maybe in Christianity you have more dark bushes than ever had been. Prejudices in the various dogmas. And venomous snakes coming out, biting. How much bloodshed until now, in the name of the Lord of Love. This is human weakness. All through the centuries. Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, the God-man, in Gethsemane the last night, before his arrest a few hours, he had asked his father, if it was possible to move away from him that bitter cup, this had been greatly misunderstood. What was the cup? He had requested his father to move away from him. The crucifixion? The tortures? No. He said, for this hour I have come, to prove that this material body is nothing, it is the spirit soul that counts. In a moment, he had seen what was going to follow. The persecutions. And the inquisitions of the Christians. He is still, yes, he is still requesting his father, to remove that cup from him. Christians killing Christians. So even in Christianity, we have those dark bushes, of prejudice, hatred, enmity, malice, which the God-man came to send away. Now, what is our now, system for the civilization of the truth? We are Christians. Following the Christian doctrine. Love God, and love all other human beings, not less than you love your own self. Which means, it is the doctrine of love. Now, in the Bible, in the Gospels, they have taken much out of the great truth. But there is much in it yet. What was the life of the God-man, Churchill and Manuel, the Messiah? To teach human beings, that we are all offsprings of God, the Father. And to worship him. When Joshua Emmanuel de Christ was only 16 years of age, he composed his worship prayer, in Greek and in Aramaic. Joshua Emmanuel de Christ was an Essene. Joshua Emmanuel de Christ was an Essene. The Essenes were what we call Greco-Israelites. Not Israelites. Yes, brothers. But not the same. Because the Essenes had presented a God-Father, merciful, loving, and not punishing. And not be jealous and punishing God of Moses. They have just replaced the law, the Torah. Reforming it. Taking out the tooth for a tooth, and an eye for an eye. And Joshua Emmanuel, the God-man, said, If one strikes you on the one cheek, offer him the other. A great difference now. In the law, they have abolished completely the blood sacrifices in the temples. And so the Israelites were considering the Essenes as heretics. But at the time of Christ, they didn't break off. Because one third of the population were Essenes. They have rejected the Samarites. But they were not willing to reject the Essenes. And become weaker, having in their mind to kick away the Romans from Palestine. But all the time, they were torturing the Essenes. Of course, the procurator of the Romans had proposed to the Essenes to get the Roman citizenship. So they will not be under the cruel jurisdiction of Herod and of the Sahedrin. The Sahedrin was the religious authority of Israel. But the Essenes worshipping a God, one God, one spirit God, did not want to get the citizenship of the idolaters. And so they were under the jurisdiction of the Herod and the Sahedrin. Though they had their differences from the Israelites. The Essenes' mother language was Greek and Aramaic. The Syriac Aramaic. While the Israelites had another kind of Aramaic. Which later became the Hebrew language. Because they are sister languages. The second great difference was that of the law. The Essenes were worshipping a benevolent father, omnipresent, omniscient. A God of love. While the Israelites were worshipping the Allah of Moses. A cruel, jealous God, punishing God. These were great differences. That was the life at the time of the God-men in Palestine. The founders of the modern system of the research of the truth for us, was Kamel Kior, or the Maharaja Ram. One of the wise kings who having in mind the prophecy of Buddha, came to worship Christ. So, he founded the present system we are following. Which is the difference between this system and the system of the old Egyptians? I mean the system of the Echnaton, worshipping Aton. Not great difference. Because the Essenes of Egypt were worshipping Allaha Elat. That means the Lord Aton. Even today, the Essenes, and even the Hebrews are calling him Atonaim Elek. But now, Joshua Emmanuel, the God-man, gave more information about the benevolent, merciful Allaha. When Joshua Emmanuel de Christ was 16 years of age, he had composed the worship prayer, which is part of the Lord's Prayer we are using now, in the Greek and in the Aramaic languages. I will say it as he said it. This was what Joshua Emmanuel had composed as worship prayer to his father. Which is Our Father in Heaven. Sanctified is your name. Your kingdom has come as it is in the heavens, so on the earth. This is the real translation of the Lord's Prayer. The worship prayer came afterwards in Bethsaida. He had 35,000. Before materializing the etheric vitality into bread and fish, fried fish, then he said, Give us today our daily bread. Then he got out of his sentences. But the worship prayer was as I said that before. Now, what is the difference between our system of the search of the truth from the other systems? I said all the ways to God, to Israel, to Allah, to the Eternal Aton, to Theos, to Allah are all the same. And are respected by us. The flowers in the gardens of our neighbors are as good as our flowers in our garden. So the first thing the seekers of the truth are free from is prejudice. The principle teaching of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ we are following is love to the absolute infinite authority. To the absolute infinite reality. To the absolute infinite selfhood. And to all other human beings. Not interested how their behavior living in the darkness will be towards us. Because in every human being even calling himself our enemy his ego being soul is God. So we have to love those calling themselves our enemies. So our doctrine is love. To God and to man. Some are saying that Joshua Emmanuel the Christ didn't exist. But what does it matter? The story about Joshua Emmanuel the Christ or the truth he had given? And what the truth he had given saying I am the way the truth and life is love. And these are living necessary principles for the life of human beings on the planet. And this love is a living necessary principle for the life of human beings on this planet. And now back to our system. See what the God-man was doing. Healing. Healing the material bodies of the human beings. Everyone. Enemy or friend. Israelite Bedouin Roman Greek or anybody. No distinction. And he was training hundreds on the healing just how to heal other people. Hundreds of Israelites. Essenes. But only 70 have succeeded to become experts. And another 12 the companions, the apostles, disciples. And another 12 became his companions, the disciples, the apostles later. He was healing hundreds a day. Feeling the human pain as his own pain. Because all human beings are part of his eschatary selfhood, his locus selfhood. Every living being manifesting a selfhood, an I- ness is part of his selfhood. Our pain was and is today his pain also. Now, those who doubt about the existence of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ rely on books of bad faith people. When they develop their self-superconsciousness to higher degrees they can attune themselves to the events of that period. And can see and can live everything which had ever existed. Not only that period but in any period of time on the planet. That means attuning themselves to the cosmic memory. As a human being has in himself his subconscious memory so our planet so we don't care what stupid people write and say. The truth is there in the cosmic memory. And there Joshua Emmanuel the Christ is the way the truth and life. So, I said, we are not going not to respect any of the enlightened ones. But the Son of God came to testify the truth about what they said. He showed us the way. Which is the way he had shown us the seekers of the truth. Just two ways. The one is to know the truth. To free ourselves from the prejudice and the illusions of this world of separateness. Which is the cause of all unhappiness and misery and despair on the planet. The second way is the way of service of loving human beings as our own selves. How? He had taught us that. Just to cure the human body of a person he was doing it and he is doing it even now. But that's not the most important. Because whether one becomes a psychical or mental spirit healer just with the etheric vitality of his body cure a wound in a few seconds people around us will call it a miracle. They call it an event in life only. If he is not doing that the archangels of the elements in the bodies, in our bodies will do it. Wounds will be crossed down and bones will join. We can see it every day. We can see every day the work of the holy archangels in our bodies. But that's not the most important which Joshua Emmanuel Christ taught us. It is to cure the wounds of the personalities of men. Now sometimes science is calling it psychical wounds. This is not a real description. Because they make the mistake to consider the personality as the soul, which is not. The soul is never getting tired. But of course part of the present day personality is the soul. Because our personality is in its duality. He taught that we should try to cure, heal, what I will call wounds on the personality of a man not on the body. Not on the personality but on the personality of the person to heal and cure. Which are more painful and more difficult to cure. So, he taught his healer's disciples how to use the etheric vitality through their etheric double give it to the ones who are in need of it and a cure was done. So, one of the works of the seekers of the truth is to train themselves those who want. Just in learning how to use what you call the etheric vitality and use their etheric double the etheric double of their material bodies. Joshua Emmanuel, the God-man was training people for this work. And so, we are doing also. But of course everybody is not obliged to follow this way. But definitely to know the truth it is the duty not of a seeker of the truth but of every human being. Because then one will value life understand the holiness of life understand who he or she is as a spirit-soul-self and what is life on the planet as a human being. Now on the planet we see life in many, many kinds of forms and many phenomena of life. That class of life we call it the animal kingdom. But these animals are expressing their mind as instinct. Of course the seeker of the truth is studying all these phenomena of life. But we are not animals. Though we have a body bones, blood, flesh, skin, hair and everything the animals have. We human beings are not animals. We are using the mind supersubstance in expressing our real self as consciousness. As self-superconsciousness. This is what Joshua was teaching them. All of you are God's offspring of the Almighty Father. Children of the Almighty Father. He was saying with emphasis We are God's offspring of the Father. This is the greatest principle. And when he knows that one finds himself not male or female but as Henico saw he becomes the master of matter. Now somebody will tell you he had succeeded Joshua declared with two fried fish and five loaves of bread to feed five thousand. And he said Anyone who can learn the way how to materialize the etheric vitality can do it. And he said what I am doing those who believe me know me, they know what I am doing they can do the same thing and still more things can do. We call it materialization. And dematerialization. This is something anybody can do if he will learn how to do it. Become the master of matter. Yes. Are we allowed to do it? On certain occasions, yes. But definitely not to satisfy stupid curious people. Becoming slaves of an egoist, personal egoist. Because this work of materialization and dematerialization we can see it every day around us. It is the work of the holy archangels of the elements. The archangels of the elements. Of the Marquis, the Gabriels, the Raphaels, the Uriels, the Cherubs. So human beings they can do it when they reach by attunement their self-good. Humans can do it when they reach by authority. Otherwise doing it, being slaves of a personal egoist may call them black magicians. Transgressing the divine laws. So one should know also what is the truth. It is not a matter of doing it, but one is allowed to do it. A seeker of the truth as a psychical healer or spirit healer is doing more serious work working on living matter. Phenomena will be presented as divine mercy of God and not just to satisfy curious people. So phenomena unless the permission is given from above are not to be shown. Just become good healers. Work with the etheric vitality and your etheric psychic, etheric body. The Holy Spirit the Shekinah through your hands will make legs being longer. And any kind of healing and curing Joshua Emmanuel the Christ was doing it on hundreds a day. Teaching the way. Are these phenomena not enough? Is it necessary just to transgress the law of matter which is in the heart only of our holy brothers the archangels? One may say, but can we do it? Can I transmute the lead into gold? Any kind of matter to another kind of matter? On certain occasions when I was given the permission I have done it myself in front of scientists. But this is not something to be repeated just to satisfy curiosity. Because this is the work of our holy brethren the archangels. When we are allowed to do that if you raise your self-consciousness to the level of the self-superconsciousness be able to attune yourself to your holy brothers the archangels and get their permission. Otherwise it is black magic and we should be aware of this black magic. So, one can do that in attunement with the holy archangels of the elements. And when you can become a real psychic healer in attunement with the Logos the Lord of Love and the Holy Spirit can we do that? Of course we can! And this is our duty. For us Joshua Emmanuel the Christ is not an historic person. He is still here amongst us. He said, when there are two or three gathered in my name I am amongst them as the self-superconsciousness. Now to call yourself seekers of the truth is a great honor for you. Because what is the truth? Knowing the reality concerning life and your own self. Who you are. Not what you are. You may be a man or a woman it's what you are. But who you are you are an ego soul spirit being God. So the seeker of the truth must find it find the reality of this great truth. But now there is a how. Everybody thinks it's easy, very very easy to find that way. Of course Joshua Emmanuel is not forcing anybody to follow him. He said John who wishes let him shoulder his cross and follow me. So he is mentioning about the cross. What's a cross? He had given himself to be nailed and crucified on his cross. Suffering by other human beings around him. A seeker of the truth will find that in his way. Even people accusing fighting even trying to kill you. This is the way of Golgotha. Which means we don't have to respond to the evil. But calm and quiet treat our way. That's how to follow him. Crucifixion. Who will crucify us and who will be crucified so that we will be resurrected. In our case we will be the crucifiers. Crucify whom? The egos of the present personality. The egos of the present personality has to die. That means annihilated. So that the ego or real self will be resurrected. Now the way. We have to crucify this present day personality not in a moment. But every moment. How? Finding out the reality concerning our way of life. Our intentions. Our desires. Our emotions. Study all this behavior of our personality. This is the way of arresting the egoism. And deprive it of its power. One would say if not our egoism our personality's egoism our ego At the beginning we think we are. Because the ego of the personality is making bad use of that time and place self which is the real ego. Presenting its time and place petty self as the real self. So we have to disentangle our real self from the phenomenon regression of time and circumstances and place. And this is the principal duty of every seeker of the truth. Whether he would follow the path of knowledge or the path of service. There is no other way. One would put the question do we have the power of doing that? Of course we have it. But are we willing of doing that under the persuasion of the present egoism? So we have by using introspection looking within knowing the truth disentangle our real self. From the time and circumstances and place self which in reality is changing every moment. So the egoism and the personality of course is changing. Our intentions our desires, our wishes our behavior our thoughts are changing. But we as spirit, ego soul beings we are not changing. We are God. We are the life itself. The everlasting life. So for so many centuries in the past reincarnations and passing away and reincarnated and passing away it was getting experiences. What for? I call them days at school until we grow up. For me an incarnation is nothing more than a day at school. For me an incarnation is nothing more than a day at school. And at school we are going to learn what? In this school called the planet it is to learn a great truth. To know what is the reality concerning the absolute infinite authority God. Our Heavenly Father. When Joshua Immanuel was saying these words in Greek or in Aramaic the universes were shaking. Father, Immanuel and the Suranis. These are great words. Shaking the universes. He was saying that the universes were shaking. He was feeling his father in him. And when he was pressing his hand no illnesses could stand on any human being. We must understand the power of words having behind them meanings shaking the soul self. Then you will reach the real spirit soul respect. Then all of you will understand we are not weak beings. Because the human being is not destined to behave like an animal but to reflect God. So, when you gather yourselves in your circles start with the prayer. Our Father in heaven your name is sanctified in the heavens and so in earth your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. This is enough. Start with the worship glorification. will be enlightened. He will be amongst you. Feel him here. And see what your program. Developing your consciousness to the level of the super consciousness of self consciousness and super self consciousness. Developing by training yourself now as an ego not as an egoist. To help suffering human beings around you. To express in your self consciousness the divine love. How? By using the mind now in all its ways. As waking consciousness and observation. As study to develop your self consciousness. Again using your divine nature observation. Still developing your self consciousness to the higher level. Always expressing your nature as God the observation. Nothing must escape your attention. And you will find out that your five senses can be developed. As you are using them now are very defective. Many say to me we would like just to make the exosomatosis. When you develop your self consciousness you will find yourself in the other worlds of dimensions without trying. But there is only one royal way. The golden keys which I am giving you. What are the golden keys? Visualization and observation. Which are your own inner spiritual nature. So it is not something impossible. Difficult. Of course if you hear all the time the suggestions of the egoist it is difficult. But when you decide to hear your inner voice as a spirit soul self it is very easy. You hear the voice of Joshua saying come to me. And my way is easy for everyone. For everyone who wishes to follow that way. So now I have described the aims of our system for the research of the truth. And I repeat this thing. All plots and ways to God for us are to be respected. Study all the systems you wish. In our system there is no prohibition. Choose the mind. Now in the reasonable way to find the truth. I am telling you the guardian archangel in you the ego fight archangel is ready to help you. Of course that archangel who sometimes gives very bad slaps as things of consciousness when one is doing something very bad. He is very ready to embrace you and kiss you. And help you. So by introspection you will come in self conscious contact with that guardian archangel of yours. In your being. And in self conscious contact with the archangels who are working for you in your bodies. You start to respect their work. They build a temple of God to your bodies. Of the spirit ego self. I repeat it, you are gods you are not animals. You have to understand this great reality. Then our way is made easier. I repeat again to call yourself seekers of the truth being really seekers of the truth is a great honor. Any questions? You must have questions concerning yourself. You must have questions for your circles. Anyhow I am telling you I am with all of you. I know how your circles are working. When you are in difficulties close your eyes and ask me and you will get the answer. And I know that many of you have done it already without telling you. That means attunement. This is the second step you have to put your feet on. So I say that again, today I am very happy being with all of you. You are god to me my own self.