Daskalos-Jun-2-1992-B-The-Way-Home How do we find out that we are not our psychical body? That means we are not our desires, emotions, weaknesses. How we are not all that? That means our present day personality. Because we can check them, know them, master them, change them. Then we find ourselves that we are not all that which we can master. How do we find that we are not our medical body? That means our thoughts. Now we can use the mind now again as reasoning. Study what is the thought. How was using the mind until now? In serving the emotions and the desires. That can change my thoughts. The way of thinking. By being master now of thought, it's evident we are not the thought. Since we can change it. Now, we are not the material body. Who can do anything? We lack the material body. Certain fools even kill it, committing suicide. We are not our emotions, our psychical body. Being able to study what takes place in our so-called personality, in our subconsciousness, composing this so-called psychical body of us. Not as a form, but as a substance in it. We can change it. And I said we are not the medical body. We can just work on it. See it, know it, use it. What are we then? What are we then? Are we the personality? We can be the personality if we wish to be the personality. What are we then? I had a fellow who was a good poet, composing poems and writer. He was a good writer. He was in the inner circle. Fascinated by his dreams, views, that means using the ethical and psychical bodies of his, I can say, in a clean and nice way. He was a very good fellow. He got up and told me, look here, what are you leaving to me now? You take away from me my body. My emotions, a psychical body. My thoughts. I am nothing. I said, no, you are everything. No need to be something. You can be everything. Of course he left. He preferred just to write good poems, emotional things and all that. I know sooner or later he will come back. But what are we now? Without fear, enter in that state. Do we have now a form? Or we are formless? We are we whether we have the form or not. Because in reaching these high levels of self-consciousness, Now, the self is not in need of a certain form. You are awakened as God. But as God you can get any form you like. And know everything you like. Which is just getting what I call attunement or oneness. Becoming one with everything you want to know. These are the higher, higher levels of self-consciousness. Many times you hear these words. But you must sit and say, but what are they really? What is attunement or oneness? This is the nature of our real self. Real self now, but who is the fellow investigating things? Not my present-day personality. No, the parcel of life in your present-day personality. Which now reaches the self-realization. So, you have to sacrifice nothing. You say, can I, in that divine state, we call it divine state, recollect anything I like? I'm telling you now, you cannot do it. You cannot remember your past incarnations. Because the message of God said that you should forget to have the chance of going forward. So, you are now not seeing the reality. When you reach those levels, all your incarnations will be an open book to you. You'll know everything concerning you. Only anybody you want to know. Anything around you. This is what I call super-consciousness. Holy spiritual super- consciousness. But you can join it together and make it self-super-consciousness. This is the reality. Finding out what you are, not who you are. Because you don't care what you had been, whether you had been Alex, Mary, Ahmed, Notul. Yes, for you it is pages of your book you have written. You can go through them if you like again. Live again. Because all your incarnations composed of elementals, which are living elementals, they might be dormant in the cosmic consciousness. Yes. But they are in you. Where is the cosmic consciousness? In you. In you where? In the personality? No, in your super-consciousness. So you are gaining, not losing. And what Joshua Manuel de Christ said, that the kingdom of the heavens is in us. It's our inner nature. So everything is given to you. Life. What's life? Manifestation of my self-consciousness in a certain place, in a certain period. What did Joshua de Christ say? The form materialized or otherwise is not life. Don't be afraid of those killing your material body by not being able to touch. You are soul. You are selfhood. Just find the spirit, ego, self. It is the spirit which gives life. Which gives life. And what he says in a place that nearly he should be observed, at least by the dignitaries of the church. And they didn't. My father loves me. And I love my father. I am the father. Because I can lay down my life anytime I like and take it back again. They told him, how is that? I am the life and resurrection. Who understood those great words? They have meaning in it. So, finding that self of yours. It doesn't need the self to have a form. It can get any form. And by oneness can be one with any archangel. Everything, that's a great, great privilege which the archangels, your brothers, do not have it. Because when the prodigal son returned back home, the father gave him a golden ring. The ring is the symbol of eternity. Knowing what is time in the eternal present. Which the archangels do not know. Many times I have asked many archangels of various kinds, what is time? They look at me. What is eternity? Now. Always they say now. But now human beings know what is eternity. And they know what is time as present, past and future. So we are privileged. Can we get any form we like? Leave aside our human form. I don't mean only just the form as a name and as a present, a personality. Even as a soul. And get it back? But you can do it now even as a personality. Every 24 hours, at least for some time, you enter in that state of phenomenal non-existence. The material body lies in bed. And you, as a personality now, you think you are annihilated. You enter into non- existence. Yet you wake up in the material body and you recompose yourself. And Mary is Mary and George is George. Not less. So. Yourself can recompose even the present day personality. Just study this phenomenon. I had this question from someone in the inner circle. Yes, of course, because I have a material body. And of course I recompose, as you say, my present day personality as Yannis in my material body. But you have also a psychical body. Can you not recompose Yannis, I said, in your psychical body? But how? You are doing it sometimes when you see a dream. And then you are losing it. Because you don't know the way how to keep it. How to live self-consciously in the psychical plane. So, human beings are living subconsciously, even in the material plane. Subconsciously in the psychical plane. Not even subconsciously in the ethical plane, because people are not using the mind. They expect others to think for them. So we have to develop our faculties as a personality using our inner self's capacities. We can do that by using the mind. No excuse. God gave us the means to do it. And Joshua the Christ not only mentions about these means given to us, but he is also persuading us to do it. Giving us the right, the persuasion how to do it. Be He perfect. As perfect as your Heavenly Father. So far. Not less. So, what do we expect to do? And how do we live now? Just a little step above the animals around us. And sometimes even being worse than the animals around us. In cruelty. Killing the bodies of one another. Making worse. So, what is now the duty of every human being to do? To use the precious and most precious and holy gift given him, the mind, by the Father God. And Joshua the Christ gave only one prayer. What to call this Sunday prayer. But what is that prayer? Our Father who art in Heaven. We have to realize that our Father is in Heaven. Hallowed be thy name. It is already there, but we have to acknowledge it. In us. In the Heaven, in us. Thy kingdom come. As it is in Heaven. In the Heaven, come where? In us. Give us this day our daily bread, which is our daily bread. A man cannot live simply on bread. Christ said. He said, I am the bread of life. And making the communion symbolical, he says, this is my body. To give you eternal life. This is my blood. Who understood really what Joshua the Christ was saying and teaching by all that? But it is necessary to forgive the trespasses of the others if we want to be forgiven. He gives a parable on that. Very clearly. And temptation. Of course, a human being should be tempted. Just to gain his way. Getting the strength to become victorious on that struggle. That is why God is giving us this test. And what is now evil? Deliver us from evil. What is evil? Now, it is not just simply reciting for a thousand times this prayer without knowing what really it means. You enter in the meaning of Joshua the Christ. So, what is the duty of every human being expecting? Let us use the church now language. Liberation. Really, I don't like this God. But we will use them. To study our behavior in the society and forgive the trespasses of the others so that we will expect God to forgive our trespasses towards the others. To him, he doesn't mind about that. So, he gives them the way. Just realize that we need the divine bread of life. And not that made from wheat or maize. Because he said, man cannot live simply on material bread. So, we should find out the first step. Who we are, the parts of life, in our present day personality of a man or a woman. And start now, seriously, studying the behavior of this present day personality of ours. That means, studying our desires, our emotions. What is the power in them, in driving us to enmities and to so many things? Just to study our present day personality. This is the way how to know the composition of our so psychical body. Not necessarily its form. Because its form, our human form. In those levels, it's obeying different laws than the material laws. Of course, the seeker of the truth, when he is in hot collection, somatosis, will be taught by his brother, instructor and guide, the laws of the psychical plane. Because the laws in the psychical plane are not the same as the laws in the material plane. They are different. This is a world of the fourth dimension and this is the world of the three dimensions. And also, he will be taught by his brother, instructor and guide, the laws in the noetical planes. How? By raising up his consciousness to self-consciousness. Because all people are living now in the psychical world. Either dreaming or slumbering. Coming back, remembering nearly nothing of their life in the psychical world. So, what you have to do is just to raise our consciousness, the consciousness of the present day personality, to what I call our self-consciousness, even self-known, considering our material entity, George and Maria. To find out that now, in reality, I am not that. So, I am making that entity, which is my personality, leave. I am not that. And I gave this thing. When you ask somebody, who are you? You say, I am George. Believing to a name and bringing his human form. Because he cannot bring his psychical or noetical form. But when one reaches to higher levels of consciousness, to the self- consciousness, when I put the question, who are you? Whether that's a man or a woman? Because this I-ness has no sex. There, you are not a man or a woman. You are a soul, and the soul has no sex. And if I ask them, who are you? They say, I am I. But with capital letters now, that I. As big an I as the universe. Because, believe me, your inner space in the kingdom of the heavens, which are in you, the space is not smaller than the outside space. Which means that you can move about as a spirit any time you like and where you want to go. Joshua the Christ says, this spirit is giving life, and this spirit can move anywhere it likes. It is in the Bible, in the gospel. So it gives the ability of the spirit, self, God. So, are you losing anything in just developing in your petty little self the real self-consciousness of who you really are, transmuting the present-day personality into your divine state? You are not losing anything. You are having, not creating, having everything. Seek the kingdom of the heavens, and everything will be added to you. Everything. Not certain things. What is that everything? Matter will be a toy in your hands. You can know what is materialization and dematerialization and changing the nature of matter. Only that. Anything you can do in the psychical plane. You are becoming master of the world. You can just handle the mind now as a reason, and in another way of the expression of the mind, in your self-super-consciousness. Just being in many places at the same time, if you wish to be, can one materialize a body, just like his body, in many parts of the world. If he knows the laws in the psychical plane, and the ability of the form projecting it, he can do it. Of course he can do it. No need to dissolve his body and just rematerialize it somewhere else. He can materialize any number of bodies he wishes to. And shake hands with people. But why should he do that? To stupefy people? He shouldn't do that. Unless it is necessary to do that. To help. I'm telling you, the powers of the invisible helpers, accompanied by the high intelligences, are not limited. But one is having the responsibility now. Casting completely away, annihilating completely, the personal egoism is not just entering in the duties of his brothers, the holy archangels. But he can do it. He can do everything. Seek the kingdom of the heavens, and everything will be given to you, will be added to you. One who has faith, not the things I am doing now, faith as the seed of a mustard, can tell that man, then go and it will go. He can do what I am doing still. More things can do. Which means, one should develop his real self-super-consciousness. This is the way. And I said, everyone sooner or later has to do it. Either by following the way of studying, learning, meditating, or through the centuries with the whip of destiny. Destiny is giving lessons. Very bitter lessons, but precious lessons. So when you see somebody suffering, you should know that it's not a punishment. It's a lesson which that fellow should have to wake up. Because it is a blasphemy to think that there is a punishing God. God is not punishing. He is all merciful. Now, we shall make a meditation. Relax completely. Now, bring to your consciousness, the personality consciousness, a person you love, member of the family, son, daughter, father, mother, husband, wife. Any person you love very much. And bring that fellow in your nautical body. We are working now on the nautical level. Bring in front of you the form of that beloved person. Who are you now? You are he or she. Where is yourself? You are becoming he or she. Now, bring that person in front of you, expressing love, making your heart vibrate, even the material body. Of course, from your subconscious, it will come in your consciousness, events which are just common to you and that fellow. Leave them aside. Simply express love to that fellow. You love. You are becoming that fellow now, in form and in love. Can you help that fellow now? Of course you can. Whether that fellow is near you, or hundreds and thousands of miles away, you are becoming a broadcasting station, and that fellow will become a receiving. Love is uniting souls, and even personalities. Of course you can help. That fellow will be in need of help. If you go on practicing these things, in a certain time, you enter in what we call Oneness or Atonement with the person you love. Can we love a holy person? Joshua the Christ? It's much easier, because he is everywhere and in us. Of course we can. Come in conscious contact with him, or with the Divine Mother. Many with Saint Francis, or with other holy persons. Now, what is the mind? And what is form-making or visualization? Is that imagination? No. It's creating thought. You may say, is it what we are constructing, an elemental? Definitely it is. But the whole work in the universes is the work of the elementals. Unless you have them, how will you have creation? The whole universe, material and oratory universe, is the materialization of the elementals, of the Archangels. This has nothing to do with lazy fantasy or imagination. You must learn now, the real visualization and form or image construction. By so doing, you can even materialize them. Now you see that you bring the image or the likeness of that person, it goes away, it comes again, it goes away, it comes again, it is because there is a turmoil in your so- called subconsciousness, which you have to calm it down and get what you want and place there what you want. And you can do it by introspection, to calm down the so- called noetical atmosphere in you. So, those who want to progress in these things, they must practice what I call visualization or form making, seeing things. And later, see them more real, and they are real, because they can even materialize. But they are not going to become magicians. You will use these powers only in psychical healing. You will use what I call materialization and dematerialization on living matter, in the bodies of your brothers and sisters.