Daskalos - Living the good Life 1 - Mar-8-1993 Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as your total wisdom and your almightiness. Enlighten our hearts to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We said in previous lessons that what is, always, at all times, is the absolute, infinite beingness. The absolute, infinite reality. According to the Church, God the Father. But what is God the Father? What is this absolute, infinite beingness? No one can comprehend. The human intelligence cannot reach as far as that. God we can only know about this absolute, infinite beingness is that it is in its self-sufficiency. Need of nothing. It is everything. Something that is absolute, infinite beingness is something abstract. No. Everything is in it. The absolute, infinite, total wisdom is in it. And the absolute, infinite selfhood. The reality. Nothing can exist. Nothing can ever exist at all that would exist, which is not in it. As its own self. So the only thing we can understand is that this absolute, infinite beingness God the Father is. Always. The everlasting life. The incomprehensible life. Nobody can know what is that everlasting life. God we understand is life to our own measures. As living human beings. So, in the absolute, infinite beingness is also the will pleasure of manifesting itself in itself which proves that the absolute, infinite wisdom is in it. Otherwise how could it express itself? Where? In itself. Because this absolute, infinite beingness is the omnipresence of the reality of God. So, expressing itself, this absolute, infinite beingness we see it as the absolute, now infinite beingness. In its multiplicity, incomprehensible, now we see through this absolute, infinite beingness immortal beings expressing themselves. So we can understand that in this absolute, infinite beingness is the multiplicity. Multiplicity doesn't mean multiplying. But being in great numbers. So, we said in a lesson that this will pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness manifests the locus itself as the absolute, infinite beingness now. Through that prism of the will pleasure now these beings now are manifesting themselves and they are the archangelic orders. The creators. Now, in this absolute, infinite beingness now we can trace something there which we cannot do in the absolute, infinite beingness. This absolute, infinite beingness now we can trace the quality of these divine, immortal beings. Now, the Jews are calling that state of beingness Elohim. God in plurality. Or El Shaddai, which means the Locus. Now, we can now distinct what they are, these beings. According to their manifestation. And we know that the will pleasure of the absolute, infinite beingness manifested now in the absolute, infinite beingness will pleasure of manifestation causes the emanation from all those beings of the absolute, infinite beingness of the mind. We are using this word very often, the mind. But who enters really in the meaning of what is the mind? Now, this mind we can trace it as super-substance. Formless. Yet in this absolute super-substance are the causes, the laws of the manifestation. They are what we might say the total wisdom of the Locus now. Of the absolute, infinite beingness manifested as the absolute, infinite beingness. Now, we don't have a second God. We don't have three Gods. Don't classify them according to their manifestation as the absolute, infinite beingness as the Locus and as the Holy Spirit. There is one God, the Godly Father in its multiplicity. Now, we see the mind. We can trace the mind as human beings as far as the absolute super-substance in which I said we can study the laws the principles, the ideas the causes of everything which exists. Now, we see the mind in lower rates of vibrations. I will call that word the noetic word from the word mus which means the mind. Now I see what I call noetical word. The difference lower rate of vibrations. Now, in this word I see manifested the forms. And these forms are the results of the causes. Of course, those who can ascend to those heights of intellect to pierce from the word of forms to the word of the lowest causes and orders they see that they are as causes of the forms. Entering there he can trace the forms. But now the forms are expressed in the noetical word. We cannot just reveal because there are not words to reveal. One should reach those states. Just to understand the difference and the similarity between the word of the causes laws principles and the manifestation of them now into let us call them concrete thoughts. The word is not the problem. But manifested thoughts as now forms. Thoughts and forms. What is the relation between a thought and a form? No form can exist unless there is in it the mind even as thought as the conception of the locus. So I see now thought as the word. The expression. Now these things need much, much introspection and study in using the mind properly. I don't call it meditation. Meditation is very, very, very low. Meditation is just what a human being can use his material brains in shaping forms. It is very poor. Meditation. Yes. It is so much important to meditation. But this is not what a seeker of the truth is really seeking. Just to go beyond the means itself becomes the knowledge. Knowing directly and not through what we call the mind in its lower vibrations as thoughts. Now this way you can trace the qualities of what we call the mind as a super substance. The noetic world. Splendid. Full of light which cannot be described. What we call light is just those lower vibrations of this earth which only our human eyes can just understand. It is not in reality light. It is a sensation. The real light is far, far, far beyond the comprehension of certain rates of vibrations. So, there is what I call the unextinguishable light. The absolute light. It is like God. In many religions, even in the Christian religions, we just make the comparison calling God the light. And even for Christ the Lord was a light from the light. No! It is a mistake. The manifestation of the absolute infinite beingness and beingness is the light. The light is the result. It is not the light God. But the manifestation of God is God's life. Now light and life are just similar things. Because life makes you understand as the divine light of comprehension. Even so. Who can say God is life? The absolute infinite beingness is life. But life can be seen in two aspects now. The cause and the manifestation. I am afraid we are just in very deep waters. It needs much, much introspection beyond meditation, even beyond ecstasy. Just to understand that. Reaching the levels of attunement. Not attunement. Even attunement is low. In the world of the oneness. Now. Let us come now to the mind. We see the mind. What is the mind? A super substance. What is the noetic world? Everywhere. Everywhere in the omnipresence of the absolute infinite beingness is the noetic world. The world of splendor. Of the absolute light. But now. Is the noetic world everywhere? The world where the forms are manifested? No. It is not everywhere. Now we understand what is space. There is not any sense of space in the noetic world. But in the noetic world we get the sense of space. Because it is absolute infinite beingness now. It is defined as space in which we shall see manifested the forms. We shall see the great intelligences the archangels working. So the noetical world is in what you call space. And place. But not the noetic world. There is much difference between the noetic world and the noetical world. The noetic world is one. Absolute everywhere. While in the noetical world there are many, too many. Every material thing. Every material thing from the atom to the galaxy has its noetical thing there. Where is now the noetic? We search everywhere. But now we have the noetical noetical. So we call the archangels using the total wisdom of God the Father of the absolute infinite beingness now using it through the locus. I will use the words that Joshua Emanuel was using. The ancient that means the manifestation now enters in the world of existence. It's something else. The world of existence is the noetic world not in the world of existence. No! The world noetic is in the world of beingness and beingness. Absolute law. Cause. Principles. Ideas. Now we enter in the world of separateness. Or in the world of existence. So we find the noetical words now. Not one. Many. Cause we said every heavenly body as we understand it material. Planet. Solar system. Galaxy is in the world of existence. And it has apart from its cross material side the emotional and the noetical. So we enter now in the world of existence. Now the Holy Archangels, I said, using this super substance of the mind emanating from themselves and from the absolute infinite beingness and beingness they are using now the total wisdom to create. To create worlds. The worlds. The heavens. The worlds in existence. From where? Definitely from themselves. They are gods. The Holy Archangels are gods. It is in the multiplicity of the absolute infinite beingness. All my fingers are my hand. One hand. Five fingers. Yet one hand. So we see the multiplicity now. And we can trace, we said, two aspects now. The total wisdom and the almightyness. Total wisdom. Everything is so wisely created. The almightyness. Their almightyness. The absolute infinite being almightyness. Nothing is beyond their control. This can be traced even on the cross-material world. Nothing can escape from the perfect control of the creators. Not even the human being, which is the highest on the material plane. Expression in cross-matter of their splendor. So, studying the orthodoxy. I tell everybody to study all the phenomena of life. Each phenomenon of life has definitely a form. So the characteristic of every phenomenon of life is first of all life in it and a form. This is making the world of existence. We see that every phenomenon of life. Studying it. It's most wisely created. Under certain laws, we can understand the laws. By studying this phenomenon of life, we can see harmony, order, beauty. In everything. In the shape. In the form of it. But apart from that, we can see their form. And we can study what we call the almightyness. We said nothing can escape their control. How do we understand this phenomenon of controlling everything? By studying what we said in the previous lesson, the circles of possibilities of each phenomenon of life. Each phenomenon of life is describing a certain Protestant circle of possibilities which cannot go beyond that. It must just complete its circle of possibilities of its own kind. From the world to the galaxy. What do we observe now? Which is not a reality in reality, but it is a phenomenon of it. We understand that it gives us the sense of time. Did you ever think what's time? Does time exist as past, present and future? It does in the words of manifestation. But the words of the manifestation are not the words of reality. What's then time? Can we understand time unless we just know what is space? And again, what's space? What is time in space? It's in every word of manifestation, time and space coinciding. I'm speaking of my own experiences. I say no. And studying this you come to the conclusion that space may be considered as something existing. Because it is the scene in which everything takes place. But time, time is something we conceive and we cannot conceive. Is that the word? Time, unless we have a phenomenon, an expression, which means time as past, present and future is not a reality. How do we know it's not a reality? Because going beyond the words of the material plane, the psychical plane and the neurotic plane, we see that the sense of time is changing. And even the sense of place and space. It's very, very difficult even to the archangels to comprehend this nature of the absolute infinite beingness, the locus and the way it manifests itself. Even the archangels, even to the archangels it is unknown this divine work of manifestation. Now let us see time. Past, present and future. I said it is not a reality. What is the reality? It is the eternal present, not past, present and future. That means opening to comprehend the divine nature of both existence and beingness. In the words of beingness there is no sense of time. In the words of existence, we find time giving different impressions. So, it's different, the sense of time of the material world and different in the so-called psychical world and different still in the nautical world. So, studying these things you can understand that what is the reality is the eternal present, the eternal now and everything else taking place in the material world all the material world in the psychical world in the nautical world these are words of change then you can just make the comparison because it needs a very, very serious seeker of the truth who can develop his self- consciousness self-consciousness in all those words to be able to study study study what? the laws governing everything everywhere is order in the material world in the psychical world in the nautical world order harmony balance this truth and the existence of God and God being there only blind in the mind cannot see all that fortunately we have scientists now calling themselves scientists saying that God is dead, they don't believe to the existence of a God but if they just be more serious to observe more things, study things deeply they can find and God existing and God being in body states now what do we have in our means to know the truth and what is the truth what did Joshua Manuel say about the truth calling himself the truth but he said I am their way what does it mean the way the course of things the way and truth and life these two are together truth and life it's written in the churches they say that who really understands what is behind just these three words I am the way the truth and life you know why now Christianity in all its dogmas fragments is suffering from from ignorance and blindness because they never care to enter in the real meanings of the teaching of the God man so what is necessary today for a seeker of the truth belonging to this system man or a woman to do apart from being in the way that means living his own life as a human being to approach the truth and know what is life if I put you the question do you know what is life you are living definitely you are living each one is living as a human living as a human being and each one of us is living his own way of life but if I ask you what is life in reality not your own life the way you are living now who can say few can say but not all people all people cannot say they are living subconsciously each one his way of living in confusion in ignorance which is because of the misery now prevailing in all the world now the seeker of the truth by observation and using the mind in the right way with sincerity to itself he can understand studying the way human beings are living and not studying himself as a human being definitely he should start from himself each one must start from himself or herself then see what is common cause for everybody living as a human being creating this confusion and this dissatisfaction in life we have not been created as human beings by the lord the archangels of the elements of the creation to live unhappy that is a blasphemy against god and the creators and you are living and you are unhappy it is our own fault human beings have been created to live a happy life now we can study the circumstances the circumstances are created by us study what is behind these circumstances which really create an unhappy human being and we will find the cause what is the cause? did people find the cause? great ones they did find it and everybody can find it it is duty of everybody to find just the cause of this confusion and this misery in the world some will say, oh yes, it is the devil the demons, the evil one and all that but what is the devil and the demons and the evil one? it is not just to say things without meaning do such beings as demons devils existing? I tell you yes, they do exist they do exist as human beings are existing and animals are existing it is not only the human being which has been misled making bad use of the phenomenon of life and of the divine grace there are other beings also we call them demons but I am telling you the demons are less stupid than human beings they can deceive man and no man can deceive a demon have that in your mind now what is the cause these demons are suffering because I am telling you, they are suffering and because the human beings are suffering God the father the absolute infinite beingness and beingness had given certain gifts to the creation creation because a human being is a created being which are these great gifts for a human being the cross material body his body well built up and under the care continuously of the holy archangels not only to build but even to work in it only blind in the mind cannot see that a great gift given to a human being a human body to live in we are not a human body we are living in the human body the second gift given is the heart and the third gift great gift is the mind not the human brain these three gifts given to human beings by the creators and by the locus of God who are why these three gifts have been given by the archetype or the locus and the holy archangels to a human being because in reality a human being as a spirit, soul ego being is God everlasting immortal God by making good use of the mind he can trace his way back to his divine divine self so a human being has been given the three great gifts by the creators and by the locus and the holy spirit a human body a seeker of the truth in orthodox science has to study and see in everybody his own body and the body of other people this beauty this harmony by studying what he can trace by observation and using the mind now in his research that this very moment certain unknown to him intelligences, I am speaking about common people are working in his own material body working to keep and insist to keep that body in perfect health which means God wants every human being to be happy you have a wound you take care that it will not be contaminated it will be closed down you have a broken bone it will join you are not doing it but you can see it you can observe it in your own body you can see it in the bodies of all other human beings so it is better just to observe all that and try to think over it meditate I said the word meditation for me is very low I need higher and higher realms using the mind in a better way not in what is commonly called meditation maybe contemplation I don't know if we have better words for it so now studying the material body by observation we reach a conclusion which wise ones all through the centuries had reached to that conclusion that this material body as a whole as parts and organs composed by atoms certain organs is under the wise supervision of these intelligences keeping each organ in the material body functioning and doing its own work most complicated work in the human body just to keep a human body in good health for a person to live in it which is independent from the life of the material body now this is a branch of study for the seeker of the truth and you have now more serious work to do who am I living in a material body in a body I call it my body and making the mistake to think that I am that body how can I come out of this illusion this confusion that I am not really the body you have a different way of studying in between we have to study how this material body is kept in good order is built up by the holy archangels that means be aware of what we call our etheric double another branch of study very serious then we start now to understand that we are not the material body because as I said in a lesson the material bodies of all men is just the same in shape, in form just a bit taller, shorter it doesn't matter but in the whole complexion all the male bodies and the female bodies are the same functioning the same way this is the general thing you come to know but then you come to the conclusion that you are not the material body neither two persons living in a material body are the same so we have just to see that so called time and place self and put a question, who am I? as just a person what are my characteristics? I behave in this way why do I behave in this way? and I find in myself now, I am using the word self now even the little petty time and place self I have in it a kind of struggle between essentially the idea of what is good and what is not good of course, if things are going right you don't observe this struggle but if you overdo it then you have this struggle so we study that in our self what you call stinks of conscience and seeing what it is in the other people sometimes this stinks of conscience leads a person to commit suicide so many things so, the greatest science that should occupy the mind of a seeker of the truth is to study the individual life of people around him and of himself and come to his conclusions how can he do that? start making good use of the divine gift called the mind start to understand that he is privileged phenomenon of life to use the mind at will which the animals all around him are not entitled to do are these people living now, today not the countries of the world called them civilized, non-civilized or everything like that I find all the countries are non-civilized and stupid because whether one is calling himself a scientist and he is living in America or in England or anywhere else and an up origin is the same they are under the same pressure of their desires and their petty little devilish personality studying them will come to conclusions what is really making them separate entities from all the others we said the way they are living is there not a common thing to observe using it in various degrees and just making this petty little self you are different from the other of course it is and by observation and using the mind properly we find that in that present day petty little self we call our personality are certain impulses we might call them which we call desires emotions reading where? you have to study the nature of desire the old greeks and the old egyptians were making in their semiles the story of the many headed snake and serpent of hydra and you must study the nature of desire generally and what we find out that this kind of behavior