Daskalos - Living the Gospel of Christ 1 As it is in heaven, give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our transgressions, as you forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love, and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We repeat that what is always is the absolute, infinite beingness, God. This absolute, infinite beingness is the eternal life. So it's life. God, the absolute beingness, is life. But what is life? This is something we must try to understand. But can we understand what is life only by studying the phenomena of life? We can see the phenomena of life all around us on the material plane. We are a phenomenon of life as human beings. Yes. We can just understand to some extent what is life. Now, using just a handful of matter of Earth, which is our material brains, which are not, of course, the best means to understand the reality. So, life is the reality and the truth. Because unless that reality was not, nothing would exist in it. So, we can try to trace and understand what is the world of existence, so that we'll understand what is the infinity. So, we repeat again, what is, always was, and always will be, is the absolute, infinite beingness, life. Now, what are these characteristics of this absolute, infinite beingness? As far as the human intelligence can see and trace. But this absolute, infinite beingness has in it its multiplicity. You can see in the absolute, infinite beingness, beings. Beyond number. And these beings are just not inferior, similar to this absolute, infinite beingness. In all the qualities of the absolute, infinite beingness. And now, in groups, these beings, in the absolute, infinite beingness, are expressing other qualities of the absolute beingness, which is the total wisdom. And each of these groups, these are the archangelic orders, are expressing this absolute, infinite beingness, total wisdom, in their own way. And expressing it, they prove us the almightiness of the absolute beingness, and their almightiness. Nothing is beyond their control. These things can be known by a human being, using what I call his mind. Again, the mind is not that handful of matter in our skull we call the brains. You'll find it out, after you are able to make your first self-conscious exosomatosis. Find out that you don't need to use the material brains. Again, I say that handful of matter in the skull. That helps, of course, as a means of moving our material body. But it's not the only means we can use, nor the mind. What's the mind? We said in a lesson that in the absolute, infinite beingness is also, apart from the self-sufficiency, also the will-pleasure of expressing itself in itself through these beings, the archangelic orders. That will-pleasure causes the emanation from the absolute, infinite beingness, and from these beings, the mind, the means. So we said many times that the mind is not God. It is the manifestation of God. It's holy. It's the words of existence. All the words of the various dimensions we can human brains detect are made of mind. So I have what is beingness and expression, the will-pleasure, which is the mind. So everything is built up by the mind as formless super-substance, substance, ether, and mind-matter. All these are various vibrations and frequencies of the mind. Nothing exists which is not made from the mind. Yes, made from the mind, but who is making them? Who is using the mind to make things? Is the mind giving forth the forms, or are the forms the wisdom of the beings using the mind? Now we can trace it. We have the mind as formless super-substance. In this formless super-substance, which is everywhere, we have the total wisdom of the infinite beingness and these beings, the archangelic beings, and there I have the will- pleasure as laws, causes, and principles. The reflection in those vibrations now of the mind, I see the forms. So the forms is the result of the causes, of the principles, of the laws, being not yet existing, being in the total wisdom of the all-mightiness, and now existing in the manifestation of this total wisdom of the absolute beingness, which is the locus. Locus means manifestation. I don't see a second God now. I see the same God, the absolute infinite beingness, manifesting using the total wisdom and then manifesting the will-pleasure of the infinite beingness through now the principles, the laws, and the causes as forms. Billions and billions and billions of forms from the atom, the world, everything existing. Nothing can exist not having a form. So the forms are creating the world of existence. And we can find the forms now in the mind matter, I mean the material plane, as the planet, the solar system, the galaxies, and everything, everything manifesting a living form, living form, because everywhere is life. The absolute infinite beingness is life. So manifesting itself in a form. Now we see the forms on the material plane. But that's not all the material plane, the world of existence, because we have also what we call the ethereal planes. And nothing can exist materially unless it has the etheric counterpart, the will-pleasure of the infinite beingness, which I call it desire, emotion, we don't have the proper words to use, which is causing the vibrations of the so-called now substance, creating the so-called psychical world, or the emotional world. Nothing material, ethereal, can exist unless it has in it this will-pleasure, desire, emotion, call it whatever you like, of the absolute infinite beingness and of the beings working with it, which are the Archangels. So you have the psychical world, but you have also the noetical world. In the noetical world, it's just the real world of the forms. This is what we call the mind world. The world of thought forms. What are beyond the noetical world? A super substance. Yes, we said that. The world of the principles, of the laws, of the ideas. So far we can reach with our human intelligence. There are things beyond that. Which a human being cannot conceive. A human being. But we are not only human beings. We are gods. We are spirit, soul, egos. That's a different thing. So we can use the mind world expressing, now, as human beings, a human intelligence. And can express also, in the material world, all around us here, a kind of petty little self. The shadow of our real self. Yet that self, of a man or a woman, centered in a name and in a form, and in a kind of understanding and conceiving things, that petty little self, the personality, has in it life. So its nature is God. Its expressions are human. So through that gate, which is the heart of our personality, we can pierce through that gate to find our real beingness. To find that we are beings, spirit, soul, egos. These are the teachings of Christ, of Joshua the Christ, the God-man. That was the purpose of his incarnation into a human body. To teach us that we are not just all the other animals all around us, just only a little step forward. But that we are gods and sons of the Almighty. So, yes, good theory. But theories, without practical proof, apart from being dangerous and illusionary, they are not worthy of anything unless we can prove it. Unless there is a proof. Unless we find the truth in it. Even that Joshua the Christ says, know the truth and the truth will set you free from the illusions and lead you to the knowledge, to the wisdom. Christ is not teaching us to believe with closed eyes and blindly. And if some priests do suggest that, tell them they are not Christians. Because these suggestions of Christ, the locus, Joshua, we are not just believe blindly. But seek the truth, find the truth and the truth will liberate us from all illusions. And what are his instructions? You are gods. But it's not enough just to believe it, only that you are gods because you wish to believe that, but you must be perfect as your Heavenly Father. Be ye perfect as your Heavenly Father. This is the instruction. Not simply believing it without having the proof. He had shown his divine nature in the works he was doing. We call them miracles. They are not miracles, they are phenomena in life. The only miracle is life. He had shown many, many things, proving them. He was not just presenting theories only. He had also the proof of it. He said, I am God. They took stones to stone him, calling himself God and Son of God. Then he said, but what is written in the Bible? It's written God through the mouth of the prophets didn't say, you are God, you, every one of you. He was addressing people and saying, you are gods. He was proving it. He says, if you don't believe to what I say, believe at least to what I am doing. You see what I am doing. Not only that, he who believes in me, in him, who, Joshua, that human being there, no, in the Christhood, because he was representing the Christhood, that who believes because he knows the Christhood, what I am doing, that one will do the same and still more and greater things will do. He didn't say, I am doing that and I am the only Son of God. And going departing, he says, I'm going to my father and your father, to my God and you are God, meaning the absolute infinite beingness. So we have the proof that what is God, the eternal life, the absolute infinite beingness. I am the way, the truth, and life. That's clear. He called himself life. So he had shown the way. Not only that, the persuasion, here is the way. He who wants to follow me, let him shoulder his cross and follow me. His cross, which cross? The way we are living in life. And the cross of everyone is not the same with the crosses of others. Follow him. Great meaning in these sayings, which people really never engage themselves with the thought to see what he meant, Joshua, the Godman Christ. So, now we have the statement, we had the proof, and we had also, not the suggestion, the persuasion to follow him. Follow him in what? Just finding out, even as human beings, as a personality, being gods in nature and human in expression, to find our divine inheritance. So this is stressed quite clearly, the way, how. We have the means, the mind. We have also the instructions how to use the mind. Watch ye and pray so that we'll not enter into temptation. Then we are asking, what is temptation? And how is it that we should watch and pray? What does it mean, watch and pray? Now, let us not use it in the church language, but scientifically. Temptation is the desire, are the emotion, what we call temptation. So, we should use the mind in meditating, be watchful to the emotion, to the thought, to the emotional side of our human nature, control it, to find our way. Now, in the Gospel, you find everything stated, with the difference that Joshua the Christ was using different words than what we are using now. So, watch is what I call be aware of, study, concentrate, meditate, watch and pray, meditate. That's a different thing. That will not enter into temptation, that will not be misguided by the desires, the emotions and what follows the emotions and the desires, the weaknesses, enmity, cruelty, the feeling of taking revenge, aggressiveness. He spoke even for all that, describing them, Christ. He was the first who clearly spoke about the elementals, calling them evil spirits, the elementals. He not only described them, but he said also how they are created and how they behave. He says that evil spirit coming out from the human body, from the human mind, goes to waterless places, space. He described just the surroundings and then returns back home, coming back to the mind. Coming with it, seven other spirits worse than it, entering, finding its home, clean. That means that moment there were no more evil thoughts, but it found its way back. The seven gates are the seven centers of energy in the etheric double, seven. He even described the number when it enters, what happens in what we call now possession. We had what they called being influenced and possessed by the evil spirits. People throwing themselves down, just showing the signs of epilepsy and all things. You can find everything in the Bible, in the New Testament. And these civil court spirits, we call them bad elementals, had their own intelligence, which was just the intelligence of the fellow who had projected them. In one case, when he met a fellow just on the ground showing signs of epilepsy and approaching him, that man was speaking, expressing the elementals which were in him. And they took the first part, yes, we know you, you are the son of God and you came just to torture us. So that means that even these elementals have ill feelings, the feeling of being tortured, knowing it because they were torturing the fellow who accepted them. They have even suggestions, don't cast us to the darkness, but allow us to go to this herd of the swine, stated in the Bible. He said, all right, who are you? Say who you are. They said, we are a legion, we are too many, torturing the fellow. Of course, he ordered them to leave that man. And they entered in the herd of the swine. Even the swine didn't accept them, and they threw their material bodies in the sea and had been drowned. Even the swine didn't like to accept them. So it's what describes the elementals. And what they do. Now, what do we know? Don't think that things have changed. There are many amongst us, around us, who are possessed by these elementals. Now, they think they are devils. No, these are their own elementals. And they are responsible either for their creation or for their revitalization from slaughtering elementals of the kind in their group, elemental. Because like seeks like. No evil elemental can torture or enter in any innocent and clean person. We must have that in mind. Vibrating in those rates and frequencies of the vibration of these elementals, we attract them, just like a magnet, and allow them to come and find entrance through the centers of vitality of our etheric double. That's clear. So, to protect ourselves from these elementals is not by being afraid of them, but by being clean ourselves. Clean, not to attract them. I assure you, no bad elemental can influence anyone who is not vibrating in the same frequency and vibrations with them. Vibrating how? Feeling certain desires, emotions, which are not in reality clean. So, we are responsible. Because evil elementals, they are good elementals also, are attracted by the rate and frequency of the vibrations of the etheric double of our psychical body. So, we have to work on the psychical body to keep it clean. Now, can we meet these elementals on a higher level, which is what I call the noetical plane? Yes, in the lower noetical plane, we can find them. But not in higher planes. Usually, these elementals have as their main body, the emotion, the desire of the fellow who is just creating them, and very little mind. I call it cunningness. How to carry out the aims of that elemental? Very, very little mind and much emotion. So, elementals with reasoning and just the only emotional part of it is to create them and make them of some service to humanity and to us, is creating, now I'll call them angelic elementals, constructive elementals, real thought forms and not emotion thought forms. So, we classify now their quality as, let us use a more plain word, good and bad elementals. So, in the same way, we can give life, create or revitalize a bad elemental, we can do a good elemental. Why not do a good elemental, positive, constructive and create a bad elemental, torturing us and others who are vibrating at the same rate of vibrations with those elementals. Now, where are these elementals stored up in our personality? First of all, our personality, is the sum total of these elementals good or bad? These elementals are composing our present day personality, personality of Mary, Helen, George or Peter. So, where are these elementals, good and bad, stored up in our personality? In the esoteric double of our material body, in the esoteric double which coincides in space, of our psychical body, mainly there. And in the esoteric double of our noetical body, in the lower parts of the noetical body, coinciding in what I say place, place. Where is the place? The personality of man. And what do we call that storehouse which is in the personality? People are calling it subconsciousness. Now, we'll call it subconscious mind which is in every personality, in every person and I would rather say it is the three-fourths of that personality. The one-fourth is what I would call consciousness. Consciousness or subconsciousness? Because a human being now is living subconsciously, thinking and believing that he's living consciously. Being all the time under the influence of the subconscious mind. When one should live consciously? When one will develop the self-consciousness. When one will understand what is the self. Because we are living, but who is really self-conscious even of his present personality? As Mary or as Peter. So we have to develop our subconsciousness, thinking it is our consciousness, into what I call self-consciousness on its lowest level, which is the personality. Yet, and that is not the self. It is the shadow of our self, our present personality. How? Now I use the right word. Through awareness. Is that the word? Awareness? So awareness will wake us up from this subconscious condition to our self-conscious condition. This awareness. Is this awareness the self? Even as the present personality? In nature it's God. This awareness. Yes, it is the self. In nature. But in expression? It's human. Which means we start as Helen, Mary, George and Constance. Our concentration and our work. And we must find the qualities. And the nature of the self even in the personality. Because according to the sayings of Joshua the Christ, the God-man, the perishable should become imperishable. Because in reality it is imperishable. It's life. And the continuously changing of the personality will become steady. As self-consciousness now. So this called awareness will lead us to the self- consciousness. Or put another word. Getting the habit of observation. Yes, that leads to self-awareness. Don't try in Eastern schools to find this truth. They don't know them. They make great fakirs and yogis of cheap quality. Getting out to show phenomena so that you remain with open mouth. They don't lead you to the truth. The truth, you can find it through the gospel. Through the Christhood. Through the instructions and the life of Joshua Emmanuel the Christ. Unfortunately in Europe, being influenced by the stupidity of certain priests, people are rejecting Christianity. That's very bad. Priests and narrow-minded and hard-hearted priests are not representing the Lord, the God of love and mercy and compassion. You will find it. The church, which church? Yes, of course, all churches. The Eastern churches, the Western churches, all the dogmas. Yes, there are centers where people may go according to their own mentality to pray. But for a real Christian there is only one church. As a place. The planet. There is only the Holy of Holies in this church. Your own heart. You have to make your heart the Holy of Holies. So that you will understand and know what is God. Joshua the Christ said, Blessed are the pure in heart. You are Holy of Holies. For they shall see God. They shall understand what is life. Eternal life. Everlasting life. The absolute infinite beingness. And in your sanctuary you will find your real self and God. That is the place. Not just exercising certain kind of training to use a little bit of the etheric double of your material body and show phenomena of telekinesis by using thought. This anybody can do. With just a little training. And in our center this is prohibited. Showing phenomena is magic. And we are not going to create magicians. You must have that in your mind. At least myself, I am the worst opponent of magic. And let Fuchs call me Magus. I am against it. Phenomena, why? Our first aim is first of all to exterminate and annihilate completely our personality's egoism. Which is this egoism? Just the subtotal of these elementals composing our present day personality. And showing phenomena to others. What is the aim behind it? Just to please your human egoism? What else? That means you are still the slave of a human egoism. How will you find out your real self then? How will you reach self-realization? By being slave of an idol which bears your name and the way you are thinking as a human being. So first of all we should get rid of this personal egoism. To see the way. Did Joshua the Christ show any egoism even as a human being? No. He was presenting the Christhood. He was not presenting a personality. He was presenting God. Being God. So we must find the real way back to our real nature. To our real self. And I said God gave us as human beings very very precious gifts. Without asking anything from us. Not even to acknowledge it and thank him. He doesn't care about it. He has given to each one of us, man or a woman, a perfect human body. In form. He, or rather it, the absolute beingness is not male or female. Life is not male or female. He gave us a material body. Expressing his total wisdom and love and all-mightiness. So that we, now, as a shadow of our real self, spirit, soul, express and develop a time and place personality. Personality, a kind of self. I repeat, in nature God. In expression human. And I gave an example yesterday. A line. With two ends. There can never be a line without two ends. The divine and the human. Because we must draw it until we find that center.