Daskalos-Sep-16-1991-A-Lucifer-Shamael Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our transgressions. As we forgive those who are transgressing against us. And lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Absolute, infinite beingness, God. Everlasting life, love and mercy. Manifesting yourself in yourself as the total wisdom and the all-mightiness. Enlighten our minds to understand you as the truth. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards all other human beings. Amen. We said what is, always, was and will ever be in eternity is the absolute beingness. But then what is this absolute beingness? Is this absolute beingness self-conscious? To express the total wisdom, it means this absolute beingness has its nature. The total wisdom and the all-mightiness, definitely. The absolute, infinite beingness has as its nature the total wisdom and the all- mightiness. That means God. Yes, but what else we can observe in the absolute beingness apart from the total wisdom and the all-mightiness? This is what the human intelligence can comprehend and understand. That the total wisdom expresses the will as motion in itself. The scientists call it the primum mobile. And all schools of metaphysics speak about the so-called primum mobile, which you cannot understand what it is. It's motion, movement without anything moving yet. What else we can see in the absolute beingness? We said it is the total wisdom, the all-mightiness, motion as willpower. What else? First, the self-sufficiency. The absolute beingness is in need of nothing. It has in itself the self-sufficiency. And so our spirit soul has its self-sufficiency also because our self, the real self, the spirit, is God. Now, what else we can see apart from the self-sufficiency? The self-pleasure of expressing itself in itself. Now, from this moment, the absolute beingness vibrates vibrates on what you say, the pleasure of expressing itself in itself, it emanates in the mind. Because there must be the means by which the absolute beingness will express itself in itself. Now, what else we can see and understand in the absolute beingness? That the absolute beingness has its multiplicity. As a human body has hundreds of blood cells composing the material body, the absolute beingness has a billion number of beings in it, similar to it, composing the whole absolute beingness. So, the word being is an expression of the absolute beingness. We don't have many gods, we have only one god, the absolute infinite beingness, yet in its multiplicity. Now, what is the multiplicity of the absolute beingness? If we call the absolute beingness God, then we are gods. All expressions of the beings in the absolute beingness are gods, but they are expressing the will, the pleasure of the absolute beingness. By obligation? No, as their own pleasure. Because when the absolute beingness, in its infinite total wisdom, feels that pleasure, immediately those vibrations are presented in all the beings there, which partake to the absolute beingness. So, this is not an order, not even an obligation. It is the nature of the absolute beingness, which vibrates in the other absolute beings the same nature of presenting themselves. But now, from that very moment, from the absolute beingness as a whole, and from the absolute beings who are me, all the orders of the holy archangels emanate the means of expression, which is the mind. And now, the mind is holy, it's not divine. One must not make the mistake that the mind is God, or the mind is the Holy Spirit. And we can explain it later, why. This is impossible. So, the human intelligence can reach as far as that. Human nature, those who can develop in their personality, what we call the self-superconsciousness, that means express themselves as souls, not as a present day personality, the creation of time and certain place in time. So, what is the absolute infinite beingness, God? We call it eternal life. It's life. And God exists now in the world of existence, which is the manifestation of the absolute beingness. It's the world of existence to exist. Worlds, not one. Universes, not one. The material universe is only one heaven. Now, what do we see? According to the work to be undertaken by certain class of these beings, the holy archangels, it is how we classify them. So, it is manifold the way the archangels are manifesting themselves as their will and the will of the absolute beingness. Why the will of the absolute beingness? Because the total wisdom is in the absolute beingness and being in them also. They express themselves, but they choose now the way to express themselves creatively. And so, as human intelligence, we can see these beings, the holy archangels, classified in certain orders. We have, first of all, the three divine orders, which nobody can know much about them. Maybe there are other orders unknown to us. These orders, which very little we can know about them, are the principalities, the authorities, and the thrones. This is what the Church and all the serious religions do believe. Now, for the principalities and the authorities, we cannot know anything. But we know that these orders do exist. Now, these thrones, about them we know many things. First, that when a spirit soul is going to be incarnated and humanized, from the order of the thrones, one within a metathron, as now the Greek word, comes and joins that spirit soul of the man, ekofied. Now, I'm using the word ego, which means I, the I-ness, the self-consciousness. Ekofied means attaching itself to the spirit soul who's going to be incarnated, becoming one with it, yet having its own identity. They gave an example the other day. Have a candle. I light it. They have another candle. I light it. I have two flames. When you join the candles, you have one flame. Yet it is two flames in one flame. You separate the candles, then you have two flames. So, this metathroneus, ekofied to the spirit soul which will be humanized, keeps its nature and is getting also all the experiences of the humanized spirit ego, who is God again. Now, spirit ego, our self, and the metathroneus are one God. And we said that in the absolute beingness, that beyond number, archangels of all the orders. Now, from their work as the total wisdom, we classify them according to their vibrations, expressing the total wisdom, the all-mightiness. They possess the all-mightiness because they are gods. So, what can we see in these archangels? What classifies these archangels? The use they make of the mind. In their creative work in the universes. So, we call them lords of the elements. Now, what are the elements? Certain frequency and vibrations of the mind. Because everything, all the universes are the mind. So, we have the mind as a super substance, formless, without any form. We have the mind as substance, reflection of the ideas who are in the formless mind, now as a form, any form. We have billions of forms, living forms all around us in the material universe. But we have millions of other forms which are not existing on our material plane, which are in the psychical universe. Those who can move about freely in the psychical world, they can see them, contact them, learn them in the same way they do in the material plane. So, according to the work and the vibration of these archangels, we classify them to Michaels, name given from the old times by the Egyptians and then other civilizations, who are the lords of light, fire, and heat. We have the other elves. The name just is telling its nature, which are not, is the nature of the element as mist, water, which is around the planet and on the planet. Governor is the lord of the liquids. We have the Raphaels, billions in number, which are the lords of what we call magnetism, etheric vitality, energy, call it whatever you like, electricity, and many, many other names. The orthodox scientists will find out in due course, cosmic rays. Doesn't matter what name we give it, it is energy, it is the etheric vitality. And we have also these three archangels working together. Now I have a question. Olivia brought me that question. Why don't I speak anything about the lord of the earth? When they say the earth, they mean, of course, matter. Because matter is not only the planet and the earth. Matter is the moon, and the stars, the galaxies, everywhere. And we say that matter is solid mind. That means mind vibrating at the lowest frequencies. Good. Our material earth doesn't have an archangel to the degree of the other archangels, but they have a kind of archangel, which is called Shamael. Shamael, in the old Egyptian language, means Lucifer. I'm telling you, Lucifer is not the devil. He's an archangel. So, the orders of the Lucifers, the carriers of the light, are archangels. But Shamael is an expression of the Lucifer. And that expression is not as full as the expression of Michael, Gabriel, and Raphael, who we are speaking about. So, conducting Shamael, we see that Shamael is and is not an archangel. Because he's divided to certain intelligences, which some are considered by man as evil, and some are considered as good. While all the manifestations and expressions of the Michaels, Gabriels, Raphaels are holy. That's why we don't mention much about Shamael. I say and repeat, he's not evil. Good. Why not? But he's antagonistic. That's why we don't mention him about too much. Now, evil and good. What is evil and what is good? We judge it from our own human interests. So, we are in the world of the bitterest illusion. Why? As human beings, if a beast, a monster comes in our house, many times bigger than us, and kills our children, eating them. What do we call that being? A devil. Yes. For us, that entity is a devil. What are we doing to our brothers, the animals all around us? Not killing them, to eat them. So, who is the devil for the animal kingdom? Not the human being. Yet, we are good. Very good. We are very good human beings. So, what is good and what is evil is according to the human interest. And we should be just sincere with ourselves. So, we will not speak more about Shamael. Many times, Shamael is hostile to us. Why? Because we are hostile to nature. That's what I said. We are sometimes antagonistic. And Shamael is antagonistic to us. While really, a seeker of the truth approaching Shamael, he will approach him as a friend. And a loving brother. But I'm telling you, because he's antagonistic. Human beings do not consider Shamael as an angel, archangel, as Michael, Raphael and Gabriel. Why? Because Shamael is giving to us the material body, the bones, without doing anything. While all the other three classes of the archangels are working with the material, with the stuff Shamael is providing, which means matter. Now I have the lord of heat, light, warmth, Michael, working with that substance. Giving warmth to the cross-material body. They have the lord of the liquids. Gabriel working, cooperating with Michael. They have also Raphael working, giving the magnetism, the energy, the etheric vitality in the body. While these three archangels are doing their work as their nature and the pleasure of the infinite beingness, they are always good. They are not antagonistic. Why? Because in building, in the material body, they don't care if that personality of a man is considered good or bad. We inflict a wound, deep wound, on the leg of a fellow. That fellow may be a saint or he might be a criminal. The Michaels, the Kapplers, the Raphaels are doing their creative work. They don't care if the personality living in that body is a criminal or a saint. That wound will be cured. Will cross up. It won't stay. So they don't criticize. They simply work creatively. While Shamael is antagonistic. He has a kind of instinctive consciousness which is antagonistic to the personality of the man. More I cannot say about it. Because no need to say. And we are antagonistic to it. Because Shamael is the cause of all the human illnesses. If a person is counteracting to the laws of what we call the etheric vitality. While the other archangels are building and building and creatively doing. Shamael is antagonistic, presents illnesses in the material body. That's why I would not speak more about it. Coming in contact. A man without being in that state. Or considered to be very, very good. Killing the egoism. Shamael is antagonistic. When is he creatively working for the man who approaches him. When that man has killed completely his egoism. That means antagonist in each surface of personality to be affected by the law of Shamael. And then the archangels are giving him the authority of materialization. He can be master of the materialization. That means ordering Shamael. Controlling Shamael. Because we are not going just to create black magicians or brown magicians or anything like that. So the less we say, coming in contact with Shamael, the better. Unless one, seeker of the truth, reaches higher levels of consciousness. When Shamael will come and offer him the authority. So then and only then one can be master of materialization and dematerialization. And even of transmuting matter from one state to other. Because the lord of the matter is what we call matter, is Shamael. So more we cannot say about that. Now a man raising his consciousness. By controlling the mind, comes first in touch with his guardian angel. Always you are in touch with your guardian angel without knowing it. Sometimes you talk to yourself and try to reason. Do you think it's to yourself you are talking? Or you have a conversation with your guardian angel without understanding it? What makes you feel that this is good or this is bad? Don't do it and do it. In you, your guardian angel. And because that guardian angel is sycophant, you think you speak with yourself. Now is it with yourself really? Others do it and he will interfere in another way. By creating in you distinct subconsciousness. Which means counteracting to your decisions. Presenting himself your guardian angel. That he's opposing you. Just study what are these things of consciousness. In making the introspection of self-analysis, we have to study all these conditions of our personality. Now, in the bible, the holy bible, one reads in Genesis, and God said to whom? To his multiplicity. Said, what does it mean said? Expressed in vibrations his own pleasure and the total wisdom. Said, in which language? Of course it was not in any human language. It was the highest vibrations having in it the total wisdom and the almightiness. God said, let us create. Create, bring forward man. So a human being, a human being is a creation. Just as all other creatures all around us. The vegetable kingdom and all the animal kingdom. To have a material body. Create a man, but he continues. To our imagination according to our likeness. To be like us. As spirit, soul, ego. This is what makes a difference between us and all the animal life all around us. We have a self-consciousness. Self-consciousness. Yes. Created in time and place. But still we have weak self-consciousness, which is our spirit, soul, ego. Insane. An immortal God. Immortal God. But as human beings, I present the personality. We are a creation having in it the self- consciousness. Self-consciousness now. And it says, he breathed in the nostrils of the man. His breath got the absolute being. That means in the material body enters our spirit, soul, sense. Now it is symbolically, but clearly stated in the Holy Bible, this great truth. So, our material body, our psychical body, our nautical body, with the etheric tables, are created. But our self, even as a present day personality, you are God and God's manifestation. Because even the personality of a human being, of a man or a woman, is a self. And St. John the Evangelist, writing his gospel, writing about the locus, says the locus is the light which lighted every human being, every human being coming to the world. So, manifesting ourselves also as self-consciousnesses, because we are a negro, an aborigine, or anything, we are not an animal. We are a self-consciousness. We are not the descendants of the monkeys and the apes. Let's say we start to God. Charles Darwin expressed, and I say, we belong to a different circle of possibilities and probabilities, which is the law and is total wisdom, which we can study. Now, another question we have. We said everything emanates and is expressed by the Holy Spirit. Definitely the Holy Spirit is not Geist. It's a mistake to say, hi again, Geist, and mean the Holy Spirit. Geist means the mind only. And the mind is not God, it is the expression of God. Now, what's the Holy Spirit? The Holy Spirit is the absolute beingness in a certain kind of expression, dynamically. So, I have not three Gods, infinite beingness, the Lord Christ as the locus, and then the Holy Spirit. It's the same infinite, absolute beingness in different expressions. There it is on the symbol of life. You can see that triangle, equidistant, having in it three other triangles, equidistant. But yet it's one triangle. That's the Trinity in one. So, all expressions, lokoikali, by the absolute beingness, the locus, are coming from the infinite beingness. Christ, as the locus said, my Father is greater than I am. I express my Father. And the Holy Spirit, which is impersonal manifestation of the infinite beingness, is the infinite beingness. So, whatever is done, carrying the all-mightiness of the infinite beingness, as the Holy Spirit, is the absolute beingness. So, there are not two infinite beingnesses. And the Holy Spirit, it's one, in a different way of manifestation. So, we have only one God. We don't present the polytheistic system by speaking about Gods, because all those Gods are manifesting the absolute beingness in its multiplicity. When I say multiplicity, it doesn't mean the absolute beingness is multiplied. No. The absolute beingness has in its demultiplicity already all beings have ever been and will ever be, and who are not created. Because they are not creatures, the holy beings. They are the infinite beingness in its multiplicity. Now, you can understand that when you reach that state of atonement, in a super self-consciousness, to understand what is. One in all. So, there is only one God. The absolute infinite beingness in its multiplicity. Now, we said this general lesson. What is the mind? We said, the pleasure of the infinite beingness, expressed also by the pleasure of the being, the archangelic orders, manifests the mind. As the stuff by which they will create and build. So, what they are doing is from inside them. It is their nature. Creative nature. So, this manifestation of the holy beings and the absolute holy beingness, of the Logos and the Holy Spirit, is the infinite beingness, call it whatever you like. This manifestation emanates the mind. But was there any time in the past when this was not done? No. Because the everlasting life, which is the infinite beingness, always had the manifestation of the infinite beingness as the pleasure of the infinite beingness. And of the holy archangels. So, always the mind was emanating, is emanating, and will be emanating from the holy absolute beingness. The mind. What is the mind? Said the mind is super-consciousness, formless. There is not any form in it. Yet, there are the laws, the causes of the total wisdom of the infinite beingness. And there are working the principalities and the authorities. And we cannot approach and see what they express there. We must study the laws of cause, then. From the laws of cause. We have in lower grade what we call the ideas. What are the ideas, now? Laws. Causes. But their reflection is given as the forms. So, the causes of the manifestation of everything to be created, and which has been created, are the ideas. Now, what are the ideas? One should understand, not by words from a primary instructor, but after raising his consciousness to the highest levels of super- consciousness, to partake of the nature of the ideas, which is beyond the manifestation. No more I cannot speak about these states. Of super-consciousness. So, the reflection of these causes, ideas, are creating the forms. Now, I have the forms in the lower nature of the mind, which is what we call the noetika. What do we say sometimes for the mind? Noetika. And noetika, it's not a mistake. They are two different states. In the noetika, I have the ideas, and the causes, and the laws. In the noetika, I have their reflection, which is the forms. Forms. How many forms? At least you have billions on the material plane. You have billions in the psychical plane. Billions in the noetika plane, which are not now existing on the material. And one, when raising his self, super-consciousness to this level, he can live in the same way he is living in the material plane, and in the other planes, the psychical plane, the noetika plane, that he will know, not by being taught by a brother, instructor, or guide, but now being in a state to see, observe, and come to the reality. So, no human help is needed in those levels of the super-self-consciousness. The brother, instructor and guide, can lead somebody until the level of the noetika level. But then, the one who reaches there, man or a woman, has to go himself further. Because every one of us is a spirit, soul, ego. In those states of the self-super- consciousness, there are no distinctions. All are gods. So, now, how do we reach there? It's a very reasonable question. Since we say we are gods, we, as a personality, Mary and George, are gods. In nature, yes. In expression, no. In nature, expressing a self-consciousness, of course they are gods. To the same self-consciousness, they are, not they have, a spirit soul. But now, as human beings, having a material body, a psychical body, and a noetical body, they express and create a personality. And this personality, under the loss of continuous changes, because the loss of the material world, of the psychical world, and the noetical world, are the loss of changes. Changing, everything changes. Developing, growing, coming to existence, and passing out of existence. The body can't violate this alone, which we need to study. So, each one of us, man or a woman, having as its nature and its self, ego, even as a personality now, is authorized to develop itself, freeing itself from the bodies, and realize who you are. Because you are not what you think you are. The material body, or the psychical body, that means your emotions, your desires, and your weaknesses, they are not that. Or your thoughts, serving desires and emotions, you are not even that. What are you? Here is just the work and the training. You must learn what is concentration, that means fixing your attention, your observation on a certain thing, in a certain period of time, you choose, but unbroken, undisturbed, concentration. That's difficult, but not impossible. And each one has to train himself in that. Before starting, what do we say? Meditation. Meditation. What does it mean now, meditation? What can we meditate? Anything. Now we shall speak about this circle of possibilities. The next question, thereafter. We said that everything existing as a living form, from the amoeba, the ant, the fly, the bee, the cows, the lambs, the goats, the elephant, has a beginning and an end. That beginning and an end, they complete a circle of possibilities. But the end is the beginning, because it's a circle. That's why we say it's a circle. And for a man, it is the reincarnation. So, let us take this circle of a human being. First of all, it is the creation by the holy Archangels of the spermatozoa in the body of a male person. Male person makes love with a woman, giving this spermatozoa, the woman, the opportunities, a new being and creature to come in the world. See, being and creature. What does it mean, being and creature? The body is the creature, the being is the spirit, soul, which will be reincarnated. So, that personality now, in the world of existence, starts birth, growing, growing, becoming an adult, becoming a young man or a young woman, it depends, then becoming himself or herself to cause new beginning and an end of circles of possibilities for another creature, another being. And then it comes to the end, which is passing over. So, that person covers part of the circle of possibilities, not the whole circle. Continues in the psychical plane, the life. Goes on. Continues the life in the nautical plane. Goes on. So, the rest, the incarnate again, entering in a spermatozoa, as he does the first time. Now, new body, new circumstances, new places. But in that creature is the spirit, soul, ego, to adapt itself to the circumstances, create a personality. Live in different circumstances as a person, yet having in that person its nature. I am I.