



THE  ESOTERIC  TEACHINGS  
A Christian Approach to   Truth 
Stylianos  Atteshlis  
PhD,  DD,  MPsy,  MMcs  
A  Teacher  of What  Is  Within  
(known  as  'Daskalos')  
'At   Thine   immaculate feet,   O  Logos,   be   all  authority'  

Published  by  
The    Stoa    Series    
P.O.  Box  8347  
Strovolos,  Cyprus  
ISBN  9963-7740-0-8  
PRINTING  HISTORY  
Greek  Original  1987  
First English  Trans.  1989*  
Revised  English  Edition  1992**  
©  Copyright  October  1992  by  Panayiota  Atteshli  Theotoki  
All  rights  reserved  
*Translated  from the Greek original by 
Robert  and  Audrey  Browning  
**This edition features extensive revisions,  additions,  
and  rephrasing from  that  of all  earlier versions. 
The  work  was  performed by  an editorial 
team composed  of students  of the  System,  
under the  guidance  of Stylianos  Atteshlis.  
Printed   in    Cyprus    
by    IMPRINT A,    Ltd.    
P.O.    Box  4105,  
Nicosia 

DEDICATION 
by  the Author 
It   is  with  great joy  that  I  place  this  work  in  the  hands  of  
my  readers,  so  that  they  may  become  aware  of the  difficulties  
which  surround  the  Research  of  Truth.  When  I  speak  of  the  
Research   of  Truth,   I   do   not  mean   those   'Circles   for   the   
Research  of Truth'  of  which  I  am  a  Brother  Guide,  but  to  the  
right—indeed  the  necessity  of  every  human  being  to  concern  
himself with  the  great truths,  which  will  lead  each  one  of us  to  
seek  real  knowledge;  about  life  and  about  our  own  individual  
being. 
Some  of  my  colleagues   in  the   'Inner  Circles'   of  the  
Research  of Truth,  to their  and  to  my  own delight,  have  found  
through  their knowledge  and the experience  it    has  brought,  the  
truth  about  life.  Why  should  not  all  humanity,  all   sincere,   
thinking  people,  concern  themselves  with  something  beyond  
the  material  things  of Earth? 
I  also  wish  to  express  my  thanks  to  all  who  have  helped  
with  the  preparation  and  printing  of  this  book.  I  dedicate  this  
text  to  my   sixteen-year  old  grandson—a  future  teacher  of  
Truth—Stylianos   Spyrou   Papakyriakou   and   to   his   mother   
Irene  Stylianou  Atteshli.  
Stylianos  Atteshlis  

THE LEGEND  OF THE  UNPOINTED  SWORD  
(A note  on the  cover picture) 
Now  when  Jesus  was  born  in  Bethlehem  of Judaea  in  the  days  
of Herod  the  king,  behold,  there  came  wise  men from  the  east  to  
Jerusalem.  Saying,  where  is  he  that  is  born  King  of  the  Jews?  
for  we  have  seen  his  star  in  the  east,  and  are  come  to  worship  
him.                                                                                          (Matt.  2:1-2)  
It    is   related   that   the   Lord   Buddha   told   his   disciple   
Ananda   that   in   five   hundred   years'   time   God   would   be   
directly  incarnated  upon  Earth.  He  made  it  clear  that  he  was  
not  referring  to  an  ordinary  human  being  reaching  perfection  
through  incarnations,  but  that  God  Himself  would  be  directly  
incarnate. 
Before  the  birth  of  Joshua,  or  Jesus  as  we  know  Him,  
certain  wise  men  in  the  East,  who  knew  of the  Lord  Buddha's  
prophecy,  had  followed—through  clairvoyance—the  birth  of  
the  Virgin  Mary   and  were   awaiting  the  Incarnation  of  the  
Logos—God  in  expression.  
One  of  these  wise  men  was  the  Maharajah  Ram,  who  
with  his  friend  and  counsellor  Chekitana,  had  calculated  the  
time  and place  in  Palestine  where  they  must  be  in  order to  pay  
homage  to  the  incarnate God. 
Ram  appointed  his  mother  and  brother as joint regents  in  
his  kingdom  and  set  out for  Palestine,  accompanied  by  Cheki-
tana.  Their  way  took  them  through  Armenia,  which  in  those  
days  was  divided  into  two  warring  kingdoms,  ruled  by  two  

brothers,  Kaspar  and  Dikran.  When  Ram  had  reconciled  the  
two  brothers,  Kaspar appointed  Dikran  to  rule  both  kingdoms  
and joined Ram  and   Chekitana  on  their pilgrimage. 
As  they  journeyed  south,  they  met  an  astrologer,  Baal  
Das   Ashur  ('servant  of  God'),   who   wanted  to   accompany   
them,  and they  accepted him  as  their companion. 
At   the   appointed   time,   they   reached   Palestine   and   
although  they  were  aware  of  Herod's  intentions,  since  they  
were  able to read his  thoughts,  and had no  need of information 
from him,  Baal  Das  Ashur  insisted   that they  should  visit him. 
In  the hope  that their visit might  alter his plans,  Ram  and Kas-
par  agreed.  
Then  they  journeyed  on  to  Bethlehem,  where  the  three  
Magi  found  the  stable  in  which Jesus  had been  born.  The  first  
to   kneel  before  the  manger  was  Ram.  He  took  off  his  outer  
cloak  and  laid  it     at Christ's  feet,  so  that  only  his  white  under-
garment remained.  This  is  why  the  teachers  of the  Researchers  
of   Truth  wear  a white  robe,  as  a  symbol  of purity  of intent  and  
dedication.  Ram  then  drew  his  sword,  broke  off  the  tip  and  
placed  it    before  the  infant God,  saying,  'At  Thine  immaculate  
feet,  O  Logos,  be  all  authority.'   This  is  the  origin  of  the  
Sword  of Initiation,  which  is  without its  sharp  point.  
As  the   other  two   wise   men  offered  their  gifts,  Ram  
exclaimed,  'Ham  El  khior!'  which,  in  his  language,  meant,  'I  
have  seen  God.'  From  then  on  he  was  known  by  the  name  
which has come down to us  as Melchior. 

PROLOGUE 
This  book provides  such information as  is permissible 
about   the  Truth,  setting  out  not  only  what  we  already  know  
from  the  Bible,
1
  but  making  use  also  of first-hand experience; 
'For  the  gospel  came  not  unto  you  in  word  only,  but  also  in  
power'  (1  Thes  1:5).  The  Truth  of  which  we  speak  is  a  hun-
dred-faceted    diamond.    On    the    material    plane    one    can    
approach—but  not  acquire—the  relative  truth,  by  penetrating  
through the  comprehensible to the reality. 
Of course,  the  keys  to  the  mysteries   cannot  be  given  to  
irresponsible  or  merely  curious  persons,  because  that  knowl-
edge—like  a  two-edged  dagger—can  kill.  On  the  other  hand,  
we  would  not  remove  such  an  instrument  from  a  surgeon,  
whose intent is   to save lives. 
We   cannot   claim   that   the   system   followed   by   the   
Researchers  of  Truth  is  the  only  one  leading  to  perfection.  
There  are  many  other  systems,  just  as  there  are  many  roads  
and  paths  towards  the  same  goal.  Flowers  in  our  neighbour's  
garden  are  as  precious  as  the  same  kind of flowers  in  our own 
garden  and  we  appreciate  the  work  and   toil  of those  who  can  
present  them  to  the  world.  We  are  not  against  any  system  or  
religion,  in so far as these are paths towards knowing God (the 
Absolute  Beingness),  but  we  are  definitely  Christians  and  the  
Lord of Wisdom  and Love has  given us  enough.  
We  do  not  claim  to  be  the  only  ones  who  know  the  
truths,  but  nobody  can  claim  to  have  understood  them  better  
than  we  do.  Everyone,  including  ourselves,  still  has  a  long  
way  to  go  to  understand  the  truths.  For  the  time  being,  living  
1
  We  have  selected  the  Authorized  King  James  Version,  published  by  OxfordUniversity  
Press,  for all  the  biblical  citations  appearing  herein.  

in   the  material  world,  we  do  our  best  through  the phenomenon 
of   life  (the  comprehensible)  to  penetrate  as  far  as  we  can  into  
the  deep  oceans  of  Life  and  Truth,  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven  
which is within us  and everywhere  around  us.  
We  love  and  appreciate  the  endeavours  and  the  work  of  
all     who  try  to  show  the human race the  way  to  conquer matter, 
to   control  emotions  and  desires,  and  to  make  good  use  of  the  
Divine  gift—holy  Mind.  There  is  no  other  way  of  reaching  
once  again  the  relative  reality  concerning  man,  God  and  the  
universes. 

CONTENTS 
Introductory Notes                                                                  13                                                                  
1.     Absolute Beingness                                                                17                                                                
2.     The Christ Logos                                                                     25                                                                     
3.     The  Holy  Spirit                                                                        33                                                                        
4.     Humanity                                                                                  39                                                                                  
5.     The  Archangelic Orders                                                        59                                                        
6.     Mind  and Etheric  Vitality                                                      69                                                      
7.     Creation                                                                                    77                                                                                    
8.     Space-Place-Time                                                                   85                                                                   
9.     The  Worlds                                                                               95                                                                               
10.   Light  and Superlight                                                             107                                                             
11.   How  the Human Body is Constructed                               111                               
12.   The Etheric Double                                                               115                                                               
13.   Our Three Bodies                                                                  131                                                                  
14.   The  Relationship  between  our Temporary 
and Permanent Personalities                                               141                                               
15.   Elementals                                                                              145                                                                              
16.   The  Subconscious                                                                 155                                                                 
17.   The Law  of Cause  and Effect                                              163                                              
18.   Looking Within                                                                     167                                                                     
Instead of an Epilogue                                                          179                                                          
The  Traveler of Dreams'                                                     180                                                     
Glossary                                                                                  184                                                                                  

INTRODUCTORY  NOTES  
There  is  a  common  conviction  among  us  that,  as  living  
beings,  we  are  something  very  different from  what  we  appear  
to   be.  That  is  to  say  that  we  are  not  merely  a  material  body,  
not  simply  a  collection  of  organic  and  inorganic  ingredients,  
in    whatever  miraculous   order   and   harmonious   interdepen-
dence,  which  produces  the  phenomenon  of  life,  in  the  sense  
that  we  all  know.  And,  indeed,  we  are  not  in  a direct morpho-
logical  line,  we  would  say,  with myriads  of other forms  which  
fill  our planet. 
If   the  biological  cycle  of  the  animals  is  called  'life'  and  
we  accept  that  the  word  includes  the  meaning  of  'beginning'  
and  'ending',  for  humanity  the  same  word  in  capital  letters  
expresses  eternity.  Human  beings  are  eternal  and  immortal  
because  the  Spirit of God  lives  in  us.  
Our  epoch,  however,  tends  to  deify  matter.  Humanity  
makes  poor  use  of  Mind.  We  use  the  holy  'supersubstance'  
only for material  ends,  which frequently  prove  to be  in  excess  
of    our  needs—sometimes  to  a  precariously  dangerous  level.  
We   multiply  knowledge   unthinkingly   and   create   situations   
which  continually  divert  us  from  our  true  nature  and  make  
more difficult our attainment of perfection. 
The  new  achievements  of technology,  which  accumulate  
at    a  great  pace,  are  drowning  humanity  in  a  swamp  of  total  
doubt  and  are  creating  for  us  a  fragile  illusion  of power  over  
everything.  This  separates  human  thought,  belief  and  activity  
even further from  our Divine nature. 
13 

This  leads  us  nowhere.  Humanity  ought  to  be  searching,  
seriously  and  carefully,  for  the  well-spring  of Life.  We  ought  
to   be  returning  again  and  again  to  our  source  and  to  be  exam-
ining  with rational  thought,  each  and every  step  upon  our way. 
We  will  be  surprised,  if  we  do,  how  wrongly  we  have  used  
our rationality  in  the  conduct  of our  affairs.  At  the  same  time  
we  will  be  attracted  by  the  grandeur  of  the  promise  of  God,  
which  holds  in  store  for  humanity  a  primary  role  in  the  pro-
cess  of Creation. 
It   is  not  with  our  sight—that  miraculous  sense  which  is  
of    such  importance  in  the  three  dimensional  world—that  we  
shall   comprehend   the   Divine.   Our  material   eyes   are   very   
poorly equipped to receive  the  light of the  infinite goodness  of  
Godliness.  God  the  Father  is  beyond  our comprehension.  It  is  
through  the  Christ  Logos  and  not  with  our  sight  but  with  our  
emotions—which  are  characteristic  of  the  psychic  body—that  
we  can begin to understand.  We feel the Christ Logos  with the 
heart,  and our beingness  is  wholly  attuned to Christ,  while  our  
minds  are  aflame  with  longing  to  become  one  with  God.  The  
longing   for   our   attunement   and   at-one-ment   with   God   is   
unspeakably  pleasing  and  delightful,   since  the  human-ego-
personality  feels  ashamed  when  it  spends  its  time  in  circum-
stances  which  constitute  a  denial  of  God.  Whoever  has  spent  
their life  at the  lowest  level  of existence,  or  without  any  light,  
is  miserable indeed. 
But  this  is  the  basis  of wisdom.  Anyone  who has  experi-
enced  such  conditions  now  has  a  measure  by  which  to judge 
and  discard  them.  It  is  no  longer  possible  for  them  to  be  
tempted,  because  they  know  well  how  deceptive  and  mali-
cious  are  the  promises  of  an  evil  one.  So  they  are  invulnera-
ble. 
14 

The purpose of this book,  therefore,  is to reintroduce into 
human  consciousness  these  important  considerations,  to  clear  
away  the  dirt  on  the  mirror  of  the  Soul  in  order  to  show  its  
polished  and  gleaming  surface  and  to  see  the  real  nature  of  
humanity.  Then,  like  the  Prodigal  Son,  we  will  remember  our  
Father's house  and be filled  with longing to return. 
Step by  step  we  will  move forward,  with increasing hope 
and  exultation,  till  we  reach  the  impatient  embrace  of  our  
Father and  are  enfolded  by the compassionate  arms,  which  are  
always  held out to receive us  and always merciful. 
And  so we  will  enter into  the Joy  of the Lord. 
Khristos  Karagiorgas.  
(Researcher  of Truth) 
Note:  Throughout  the  text,  an  asterisk*  is  used  to  denote  a  
word,  or  term,  defined  in  the  Glossary  when  it     occurs  for  the  
first time,  but not thereafter. 
15 

CHAPTER  ONE  
ABSOLUTE  BEINGNESS  
God  is  Love;  and  he  that  dwelleth  in  love  dwelleth  in  God,  and  
God in  him.                                                                 (1  John 4:16) 
I  believe  in  one  God,  the  Father Almighty,  maker  of heaven  and  
earth  and of all things  visible  and invisible.            (Nicene Creed) 
In  the first times,  when  the voice  of the Lord came to the 
ears   of  humanity   to  tell   them   of  His   most   Divine*   Will-
pleasure*  to  institute  His  Divine  moral  Laws*,  from  extreme  
devotion  and  with  a full  understanding of the  ineffable  superi-
ority  of  the  Eternal,  they  called  him  'He  who  has  no  name.'  
For  what name  could  contain  and  properly  express  the  Infinite  
and Absolute  of the  First  and  Only  Being?  
Only  one—and  that  purely  to  help  our  limited  human  
understanding—can,  with  obvious  inadequacy,  answer  to  the  
Magnificence  of  the  Divine  Unity.   'I  am  Beingness'   (lycb   
eifil  o QN. Ex.  3:14), It     said  and  we,  after exhausting the lim-
its    of  human  possibilities,  have  called  It   'Absolute  Being-
ness'*. 
This  is  the  Great  God.  'He  who  is  everywhere,  filling  
everything,  the  source  of all  good  and  the  provider of life'(tra-
ditional  Greek  prayer).  This  is  the  Eternal  Authority,  which  
extends  unchanged  into  all  created  universes,  all  heavens  and  
hells. 
17 

We  find  Beingness,  in  full  Power  and  Glory,  in  the  infinitely  
small  atoms  of matter  and  in  the  vast  and  boundless  galaxies;  
in   the depths  of the  sea  and  on  the cloud-capped mountains.  It  
is   everywhere,  in  full  and  eternal  Authority,  from  the  utmost  
depths of the abyss to the throne  of Its ineffable Glory. 
Absolute  Beingness,  we  would  say,  is  a  State  of  Self-
aware*  Absolute  Super-consciousness*,  in  which  everything  
is   and  finds  and  draws  upon  the  energy  needed  for  its  exis-
tence  and  expression.  It  is  the  One  and  Only  God,  Who  in  Its  
Absolute   Self-sufficiency*   meditates   and   expresses   Itself.   
Every  thing,  visible   and  invisible,  above  and  below,  is  as  
God's expression,  the  result of Its  Divine  Will-pleasure.  
What  types  of  Self-awareness,  however,  does  Absolute  
Beingness  have?  Certainly  Absolute  Self-awareness,  in  all  its  
states,  from  the  static  and  unexpressed  to  its  most  complete  
Super-conscious   expression.   Absolute   Beingness   has   Self-
sufficiency,  without  the  slightest  need  to  express  Itself.  It  is  
Absolute  Blessedness.  For us,  Blessedness  is the final  rung in 
the  ladder  of becoming  a  complete  Being  and  of entering  our  
real  life.  Blessedness,  however,  is  not  exactly   a  nature  of  
Absolute  Beingness,  since  as  regards  Absolute  Beingness,  we  
must  view   Blessedness  in  conjunction  with  Overlordship*.  
However,  the  eyes  of a  human  being,  whether  material  or  spi-
ritual,    cannot    contemplate    anything    beyond    Blessedness    
within  Absolute  Beingness.  
It   is  inconceivable  that  there  is  any  part  of  the  Infinite  
which  does  not  contain  within  it  Absolute  Beingness.  How-
ever,  the Infinite  is  not God,  nor does God confine Itself to  the  
Infinite.  God  is  beyond  the  concept  of  any  sort  of  space.  It  is  
Life  itself—Life  which  is  the  expression  of  Absolute  Being-
ness  within  Itself,  with  a  special  vehicle  which  It  creates  for  
18 

this  very  purpose.  One  such  manifestation  is  Mind*.   With   
Mind,  Absolute  Beingness  expresses  Itself  as  Multiplicity  in  
the  worlds  of separation. 
Before  we  move  on  to  the  expression  of Its  Divine  Mul-
tiplicity,  it  is  necessary  that  we  first  dwell  upon  the  meaning  
of    God,  as  concerns  Its  incomprehensible  Oneness   and  Its  
Infinite  Mercy*,  so  that  we  may  never  develop  a  fear  of It     in  
our  hearts,  but  only  love,  boundless  and  without  thought  of  
self.  For God,  while  being  all  things,  without  any  reservation,  
is,     at  the  same  time  and  before  all,  total  and  inexhaustible  
Love.  Naturally  the  material  human  brain  is  quite  inadequate  
for  understanding  the  concept  of  Absolute  Beingness.   Nev-
ertheless,  up to  a point,  it    can perceive  It.  
We  have  said  that  Absolute  Beingness  is  everything,  the  
One,  in Its  Multiplicity.  Now  we must perceive  this  Multiplic-
ity  within  the  One.  How  can  this  be?  The  One  contains  the  
Multiplicity,  but  every  part  of  this  Multiplicity  is  'by  nature  
all  alike,'  undifferentiated  in  form,  within  Absolute  Being-
ness,  without however it    being possible  to  define  the  Absolute  
either in  terms  of the undifferentiated  or the  particular.  
Let   us   now   see   what   we   may   meet   within  Absolute  
Beingness,  so  that  we  may  have  a  perception  of  Multiplicity.  
Certainly,  Absolute  Self-aware  Super-consciousness.   Let  us  
take,  as  an  example,  the    ocean,  which  consists  of  atoms  of  
oxygen  and  hydrogen.  It  is  a  vast  expanse  of water.  When  we  
speak  of 'ocean',   however,  our brain  does  not merely  think  of  
the  water,  it  includes  a  more  general  meaning,  with  special  
characteristics—depth,  vast waves,  dark blue colour,  fish,  sea-
weed  and  so  on.  What  is  the  multiplicity  of  the  ocean?  We  
should meditate  on  this.  
Multiplicity,  however,  is  found  everywhere  in  nature.  A  
19 

plant,  a  tree,  an  insignificant  organism  like  a  worm,  or  a large 
animal,  any  organism  and  man  himself  all  contain  this  multi-
plicity.  An  organism  is  a  unit—a  human  being  is  one—and  
every  organism  consists  of  many  millions  of  cells  or  atoms.  
Yet each  atom  and  each cell  has  its  own  consciousness.  
There  is  a  great  difference  between  the  multiplicity  we  
find  in  the  world  of  things,  existences  and  Beings,  and  the  
multiplicity  which  we  shall  meet  within  Absolute  Beingness.  
If   we  consider  that  we  remain  within  Absolute  Beingness,  
even  while  we  are  descended  into  the  worlds  of existence,  we  
can begin to entertain this difference. 
Yet   Divine   Multiplicity   is   incomprehensible   to   the   
human  intellect,  which—because  of  its  limitations—sees  eve-
rything  from  the  angle  of  separation.  Nevertheless,  the  Total  
Wisdom  of  Absolute  Beingness  is  also  within  Its  expression  
as    Christ  Logos*  and  Holy  Spirit*,  as  Logoic  Love  and  the  
Holy  Spiritual  Total  Power.  
The  expression  of Absolute  Beingness  is  the  result  of Its 
Divine  Will  and  has  two  arms—the  Logoic  and  the  Holy  Spi-
ritual.  In  every  single  thing  in  existence—such  as  living  sys-
tems  of  the  natural  world,  all  types  of  consciousnesses  and  
self-awarenesses—we  find  these  two  Divine  Overlords,  vary-
ing  only  in degree  of expression  and  activity.  
One  additional  element,  which  can  give  us  a  clearer  and  
more  complete  understanding  of  the  Divine  is  the  notion  of  
Self-sufficiency.  Self-sufficiency,  in  its  absolute  meaning,  is  
the  Nature  of  Absolute  Beingness  and  leads  to  Divine  Will-
pleasure.  We  can  perceive,  then,  because  of  Self-sufficiency,  
the  presence  of  all  things  within  Absolute  Beingness.  It  is  not  
possible  to  imagine  anything  existing  outside  Absolute  Being-
ness.  All  things  are  within  It,  and  therefore  express  Its  Divine  
20 

Self-sufficiency  and Total  Wisdom.  Even in Will-pleasure  and  
expression,  there  is  Self-sufficiency,  because  if  it     were  miss-
ing,  nothing  whatever  would  be  able  to  evolve  in  due  order  
and  according  to  immutable  Laws.  By  studying  these  cycles  
of   expression,  of living  existences,  we  see  Self-sufficiency  as  
the Law  and First Cause. 
A  Nature  of Absolute  Beingness  is  Self-sufficiency,  fol-
lowed  by  another  Divine  Nature,  the  Will-pleasure  of  Abso-
lute  Beingness.  The  Will-pleasure  begins  with  the  expression  
of    Absolute  Beingness   within  its  Own  Self,   as   the   Christ   
Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit.  That  is  exactly  the  point  of Divine 
Expression   which   lies   between   Self-sufficiency   and   Will-
pleasure,  without  Will-pleasure  failing  to  have  within  it,  Self-
sufficiency. 
As  far  as  Creation  is  concerned,  which  is  the  expression  
of   Absolute  Beingness  as  a product of Divine  Will-pleasure,  it  
contains  all  the  characteristics  of Absolute  Beingness,  such  as  
the [Christ  Logos   (The  Universal   Super  Self-consciousness)  
and the  Holy  Spirit  (The  Universal  Super-consciousness).  And  
when  we  speak  of  Creation,  we  do  not  mean  only  that  of  the  
gross  material  world,  but  the  Pan-Universal  Logoic  and  Holy  
Spiritual Expression in  all  universes  and  worlds.  
A  primary  characteristic  of  Absolute  Beingness,  within  
Its   absolutely   stable   state,   is   the   Divine   Will.   We   have   
referred  to  Its  state  as  being  stable  because  at  this  point  It     has  
not  created  vibration.  However,  vibration  exists  within  Abso-
lute  Beingness  as  a  state  not  yet made  manifest.  Everything  is  
within  the  Divine  Self-sufficiency  and  appears  as  a  result  of  
Will,  of Reason  and  of Love. 
Absolute  Beingness,  for  the  sake  of the  Divine  Plan*,  is  
well  pleased  to  express  Itself.  The  Triadic  God  which  was  
21 

expressed  appears  to   us,  therefore,  as  Absolute  Beingness-
Christ  Logos  and  Absolute  Beingness-Holy  Spirit,  which  we  
can  also  describe  as  Absolute  Self-awareness  and  Absolute  
Superconsciousness. 
This  certainly  does  not  mean  that  Absolute  Beingness,  
before  It    had given expression to  them,  did not have  within  Its  
Divine  Self-sufficiency,  the  Christ Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit.  
It   is  the  Nature  of God,  which  we  have  called  Absolute  Self-
sufficiency,  that Absolute  Beingness,  the  Christ Logos  and  the  
Holy  Spirit are  One.  
Within   Absolute   Beingness   we   may   also   distinguish   
Divine  Power,  Divine  Wisdom  and  Divine  Love.  It  was  from  
exceedingly   great   Love   that   God   emanated  humanity   and   
endowed  it  with  the  possibility  of  developing  Self-awareness  
and  Divine  understanding.  
We have  said, finally, that God is Life.  Life, however,  in  
order  to  be  understood,  must  include  Self-sufficiency  as  one  
of    its  most  important  characteristics  and,  consequently,  Total  
Power,  Total Wisdom and Total  Love.  
Does  Absolute  Beingness  love  Itself?  Of course,  since  It  
is   Absolute  Love.  If  Absolute  Beingness  were  not  first  and  
primarily  Love,  other  states  or  conditions  endowed  with  the  
gift  of  free  expression  would  not  have  been  allowed  to  be  
born,  since  It  Itself  is  everywhere  present  and  filling  every  
thing.  If the  Divine  Nature  of Total  Love  had  not  existed,  nei-
ther would  there  have existed  in  the  material  world the Law  of  
Coherence,  nor  would  we  have  had  our  emotional  (psychic*)  
world.  And  this  is  what  mankind  must  chiefly  learn.  With  our  
studies,  it    is   possible  to be  guided  to reality,  to  a sensitivity  of  
God's  Total  Goodness   and  Total  Love.   Once   this  is  con-
firmed,   the   path   is   easier   and—no   longer   as   rough   and   
22 

unpleasant—but  straighter  and  smoother  to  tread.  Humanity  
can now worry  about  something  else!  
In   view  of  the  above  we  may  try  to  describe,  as  far  as  
possible,   the   most   complete   dimensions   of   God's   Love.   
Humanity  will  never  be  able  to  understand  the  majesty  and  
fullness  of the  creative  work of this  Divine Force. 
On  this  basis  and  given  the  fact  that  every  human  being  
has  some  kind  of understanding  of God  from  his  or  her
1
  con-
tact,  at whatever level,  with the Inner Self*,  we  suggest that in 
order  to  achieve  the  indispensable  kindling  of desire  to  know  
more,  it  is  enough  to  meditate  deeply  and  seriously  on  the  
Natures  of Absolute  Beingness.  
The  result  of  such  meditation  will  be  the  revelation  that  
we  have  within   us  Total  Power,  Total  Wisdom  and  Total  
Love*.  Absolute  Beingness,  the  Christ  Logos  and  the  Holy  
Spirit  are  continuously  within  us,  just  as  there  is  no  moment  
when we  are not  within  Absolute  Beingness.  
The   wisdom   that  is  from   above   is  first  pure,   then  peaceable,  
gentle,  and  easy  to  be  entreated, full  of mercy  and  good fruits, 
without  partiality,  and  without  hypocrisy.  And  the fruit  of   righ-
teousness  is  sown  in  peace  of them  that  make  peace.  
(James  3:17,18)  
'  For  the  sake  of  simplicity,  in  the  remainder  of  this  book  the  author  has  decided  to  
employ  the  male  pronoun.  
23 

CHAPTER  TWO  
THE  CHRIST LOGOS 
I  believe...  and  in  one  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  only-begotten  Son  
of  God,  begotten  of  his  Father  before  all  worlds;  God  of God, 
Light  of Light,  very  God  of very  God,  begotten  not  made,  being  
of  one   substance   with   the   Father,   by   whom   all   things   were   
made:   who for  us  men  and for  our  salvation  came  down  from  
heaven,   and  was   incarnate   by   the   Holy   Ghost   of  the   Virgin   
Mary and was made man.                                         (Nicene  Creed)  
Absolute  Beingness  is  the  only  Reality  there  is.  It  is  
Truth and Life,  the totality  of everything.  It    is    Self-sufficiency  
in   the  One  and  Self-sufficiency  in  Multiplicity.  It  is  the  one  
God,  beyond  time  and  space,  Who  is  expressed  and  emanated  
unceasingly  as  Christ Logos  and Holy  Spirit.  
No  space  exists  which  is  not  God,  in  the  shape  of Abso-
lute  Beingness  in Its  Self-sufficiency  and  in,  at the  same  time,  
Its   Multiplicity   and   in   Its   creative   Expressions,   as   Christ   
Logos  and Holy  Spirit.  
Absolute  Beingness  is  Total  Reality,  within  which  we  
can  distinguish  two  Natures:  Total  Wisdom  with  Total  Love  
and  Total  Power  with  Total  Love,  that  is  to  say  the  Christ  
Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  in  Their  as  yet  unexpressed  State.  
And  we  must  not  imagine  that  the  Christ  Logos  came  into  
being  from  the  moment  when  Absolute  Beingness  projected  
Total  Wisdom  from  within  Itself,  because  then  the  Immacu-
late Logos  would be  a construction,  a result.  It is   not. 
25 

'The  Logos  is  in  authority  and  the  Logos  is  in  harmony  
with  God  and  the  Logos  is God'  (John  111).
1
   Overlordship  of  
the  Logos  existed  within  the  Absolute  Overlordship  of  Abso-
lute  Beingness,  before  the  hills  and  mountains  were  formed  
(cf.  John  17:5).  This  is  to  say  that  the  Christ  Logos  and  the  
Holy  Spirit  too  are  the  same  as  Absolute  Beingness,  'of  one  
substance with  the  Father.'  
However,  at  some  point  the  expression  began  and  that  
expression  is  Work.  And  that  Work  is  Creation,  in  all  its  
forms,  which  is  accomplished  by  the  Christ  Logos  and  the  
Holy  Spirit,  without  this  form  of  words   implying  that  the  
beginning  of  the  expression  was   also  the  beginning  of  the  
Logos,  of Life  and  of Truth.  Something  indeed  did  begin,  but  
that was  only the Way.  Life and Truth  are Absolute  Beingness  
and no time  ever existed  when  they  were  not.  
It   is  quite  right  that  the  God-Man  Jesus  put  matters  in  
their  place  when  He  said,  'I  am  the  Way,  the  Truth  and  the  
Life'  (John   14:6).   'I  am  the  Way,'    He  said,  meaning  His  
Man-Self,  and  'the  Truth  and  the  Life'  meaning  His  God-
Logos-Self. 
On  the  one  hand,  we  have  the  Absolute  Reality-Life-
Absolute  Beingness,  as  Absolute  Beingness,  Christ  Logos  and  
Holy  Spirit  in  Divine  Authority,  Self-sufficiency  and  Blessed-
ness;  while on the  other,  we have  the  same  states of the One  in  
expression,  in Creation. 
Within  the  framework  of expression  is  included  the  crea-
tion  of  the  universes,  with  the  supersubstance  Mind,  and  this  
creation   arose   from  Absolute   Beingness   as   a  result  of  Its  
i 
This  is  a  translation  from  the  Greek  (See also  note #2). 
26 

Divine  Will-pleasure.  Within  substance  and  supersubstance,  
matter  and  supermatter,  which  express  completely  the  Divine  
Total Wisdom,  is present Absolute  Beingness,  as  Christ Logos 
and  Holy  Spirit,  'by  Whom  all  things  were made.' 
Let  us  now  try  to  understand  the  exact  meaning.  Take,  
for example,  a  sculptor,  who  creates  a work  of art.  In  the  case  
of    the  Divine  labour,  the  work  of art  is  the  universes.  We  see  
the  sculptor who  created  the  work,  while  at  the  same  time  we  
can  also  see  the  chisel  in  his  hands,  with  which  he formed  the  
statue.  Who  made  the  statue—the  hands  or the  sculptor?  Who  
created  the  universes—the  Christ Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit or 
the Absolute Beingness,  as  the  Lord  of All? 
It   must  be  fully  understood  that  the  Christ  Logos  does  
not  begin,  It  rules} The  Christ  Logos  is  Absolute  Beingness,  
of    which  the  expression  in  humans  is  self-awareness,  reason  
and  love.  
The  Holy  Spirit,    in  the  service  of  the  Divine  Will  of  
Absolute  Beingness,  is  enriched  with  Total  Wisdom,  Total  
Power  and  Total  Love.  It  is  the  Orchestrator,  which  keeps  the  
universes  in  harmony.  
Order  and  harmony  in  the  universes,  in  a  microbe  and  in  
a  galaxy,  are  the  result  of the  Total  Wisdom  and  Total  Power  
of     Absolute   Beingness   and   of   the   complete   cooperation   
between  the  Christ Logos  and the  Holy  Spirit.  
Absolute    Beingness,    as    Absolute    Beingness-Christ    
Logos  and  as  Absolute  Beingness-Holy  Spirit  creates  the  uni-
verses.   However,  we  cannot  completely  separate  either  the  
Christ  Logos   or  the  Holy   Spirit  from  Absolute  Beingness  
2                                                                                                     >     i     
There  is  a  play  on  words  here  in  the  original.  The  Greek  word    aoxT]  can  have  the  
meaning  of  'beginning'  or  of  'authority'.  
27 

because  then  we  would  have  three  Gods.  Reality,  Life  and  
Truth  are  One;  'For there  are  three  that  bear  record  in  heaven,  
the  Father,  the  Word,  and  the  Holy  Ghost:  and  these  three  are  
one'  (1  John 5:7). 
The    universes    themselves,    together   with    substance,    
supersubstance,  matter  and  supermatter  of which  the  universes  
are  constructed,  are  an  expression  of  the  Reality  of  the  One  
Creator.  Of course,  the  worlds  of  space-place-time  and  what-
ever  exists  in  the  noetical*,  psychic  and  gross  material*  uni-
verses,  are  set  in  motion  within  most  wisely  defined  cycles  
and  are  governed  by  immutable  Laws,  in  order to demonstrate 
the phenomenon of life,  as  the  Divine Will expresses  it.  
The  universes  are  the  common  creation  of  the   Christ   
Logos   and   the   Holy   Spirit.   However,   before   they   were   
created,  before  there  was  any  other  form  of  expression,  all  
things whatsoever were within the  Divine Self-sufficiency  in  a  
static  and unmanifest  state.  
There  is  also  within Divine  Self-sufficiency  Divine  Will-
pleasure,  the  result  of  which  is  Creation.  All  things  that  ever  
were  or  shall  be,  are.  
The   Christ  Logos,   of   all   things   holy   the   most   Holy   
Logos,  together  with  all  the  Logos-Holy  Monads,  the  Princi-
palities,   Dominions,   Overlordships,   the   other   Archangelic   
Orders*,  are  Absolute  Beingness  in  Its  Multiplicity  irrespec-
tive  of what  expression,  great  or  small,  we  find  them.  For  we  
shall  see the perfect, the absolute,  the complete,  at their minut-
est  or  most  majestic.  We  shall  see  Divine  Total  Wisdom  of  
Absolute  Beingness,   of  the  Logos,   and  of  the  Holy   Spirit,   
complete  and absolute  in  all  the  universes,  in  a single cell,  in  a  
sun  or in  a galaxy. 
We  are  an  image  and  likeness  of  Absolute  Beingness—  
28 

in   quality,   alike;  in  quantity,  certainly  not.  The  difference  
between  us  consists  in  the  way  we  interpret  the  Nature  of  
Absolute  Beingness,  which  we,  as  Researchers,  will  under-
stand  in  quite  a  different  way  from  the  understanding  of  the  
majority  of humanity. 
The  Christian  religion  has  all  the  answers  and  meanings.  
God-Logos  Jesus  came  into  the  world  to disperse  the  darkness  
which  had  invaded  the  hearts  of men  and  to  teach  us  the  way  
which  leads  to  Truth  and  Life.  Humanity,  in  His  day,  pos-
sessed  God  within  their  flesh,  but  could  neither  understand  
nor  properly  conceive  Absolute  Beingness.  They  had  to  be  
taught.  This  teaching  was  what  Jesus  did,  by  word  and  by  
deed.    His  words  are  a  moral  storehouse,  while  His  deeds,  
whether  achieved  or  attempted,  form  the  foundation  and  point  
the  way  to perfection  and  salvation.  
Jesus,  in  order  to  strengthen  His  message,  performed  
some  miracles,  because  it  was  the  only  way  to  attract  the  
attention  of the  people  of His  day.  The  Lord  Jesus  performed  
these  miracles,  however,  not  in  order  to  impress  or  to  arouse  
humanity's  admiration,  but  simply  in  order  to  wake  them  up  
and  to  activate  their   spiritual  powers,  as  an  inescapable  pre-
condition  for  the  search  and  understanding  of  the  Truth.  He  
had  no  need  to  be  surrounded  by  followers.  His  purpose  was  
to  show  the  way.  
For  the  first  time,  we  hear  the  Divine  Words,  such  as  'I  
and  the  Father are one'  (John  10:30).  Jesus  speaks  to  us  of the 
Father-God  who  is  His Father  and ours  too,  His  God  and  ours.  
He  demonstrates  to  us  and  explains  the  indissoluble  bonds  
which  we  have  with  God.  With  which  God?  'God  is  a  spirit  
and  they  that  worship  Him  must  worship  Him  in  spirit  and  in  
truth'  (John 4:24).  He  tells  us,  in other  words, who God  is  and  
29 

confirms  that we  too  are  Spirits.  'I    have  said,  Ye  are  gods  and  
all     of  you  are  children  of  the  Most  High'   (Psalm  82:6  and  
John  10:34).  The  words  of the  ancient Prophets  are  explained  
anew and the Old Law  is made new  and fulfilled. 
In   this  way  the  Nazarene  consecrated  the  Christian  reli-
gion,  whose  purpose  is  to  transmute  humanity  into  spiritual  
light,  as  a  torch  for  conversion  and  salvation.  The  Teachings  
of   Jesus  are  complete  and  contain  all  the  necessary philosophy 
which  lead  to  true  knowledge  of  the  Nature  of God,  whether  
as   Absolute Beingness,  as Christ Logos  or as  the  Holy  Spirit.  
So,  true  Christianity  is  not  just  any  religion,  but  a  full  
reflection  of the Truth.  It is    a continuous  and vital  exhortation  
to   the  understanding  of  Truth.  The  Lord  Jesus  Himself  says,  
'You  shall  know  the Truth  and  the  Truth  shall  make  you free' 
(John  8:32).  He  calls  Himself,  'the  Way,  the  Truth  and  the  
Life'  (John  14:6).  
Most  sweet Jesus,  of all holiness the  most Holy  Logos,  is  
the  hope  and refuge  of us  all.  His  desire  to  lead  all  humanity  
to   the  Heavenly  Father  is  boundless.  Whatever  is  a  part  of  
Christ  is  also  a  part  of  us,  because  each  of  us  has  the  Christ  
within us, just as  we  all  live  within Christ. 
Saint  Paul,  who  was  carried  up  to  the  'third  heaven'  (2  
Cor.  12:2),  tells  us,  'For  all  things  are  yours;  whether  Paul  or  
Apollos,  or  Cephas,  or  the  world,  or  life,  or  death,  or  things  
present,  or  things  to  come:  all  are  yours,  and  you  are  Christ's  
and Christ is God's'  (1  Cor.  3:21-23).  
It   is  up  to  us  to  'knock'  or  to  'seek'  and,  if our faith  has  
the  size  even  of a  grain  of mustard  seed,  what  we  seek  will  be  
given  to  us.  
In   the  Gospels,  the  Acts  of the  Apostles  and  the  Epistles  
30 

of    Paul,  there   is   an  infinity  of  spiritual  wisdom.   There   is   
Divine  Wisdom  and  Divine  Love  in  their  entirety.  Blessed  be  
the  devout  Researchers  of Truth! 
In  the  beginning  [authority]  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  
with  God,  and  the  Word  was  God.  The  same  was  in  the  begin-
ning  with  God.  All  things  were  made  by  him;  and  without  him  
was  not  any  thing  made  that  was  made.  In  him  was  life;  and  
the  life  was  the  light  of  men.                                           (John  1:1)  
31 

CHAPTER   THREE   
THE  HOLY  SPIRIT  
But  the  Comforter,  which  is  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  the  Father  
will  send  in  my  name,  he  shall  teach  you  all  things,  and  bring  
all  things  to  your  remembrance,   whatsoever  I  have  said  unto  
you.                                                                                (John  14:26)  
But   when   they   shall   lead  you,   and  deliver  you   up,   take   no   
thought  beforehand  what  ye  shall  speak,  neither  do  ye  premedi-
tate  but  whatsoever  shall  be  given  you  in  that  hour,  that  speak  
ye:  for  it  is  not ye  that  speak,  but   the  Holy  Ghost.  
(Mark  13:11)  
Now  the  God  of hope fill  you  with  all joy  and peace  in  believing  
that ye  abound  in  hope,  through   the   power  of the  Holy  Ghost.  
(Romans  15:13)  
The  Holy  Spirit  is  the  Lord  God.  We  find  It  as  much  
within the  Self-sufficiency  of Absolute Beingness  as  a state  of  
authority,  together  with  the  Christ  Logos,  as  in  the  expression  
of   Absolute  Beingness  as  a creative  agent.  
The One  and  Absolute God is  All.  By  It,  as  Christ Logos 
and  Holy  Spirit,  are  created  the  universes,  as  a  result  of  the  
Divine  Will,  in  order  to  manifest  goodness  and  beauty.  'And  
God saw  that it   was good'  (Gen.  1:18).  
The  Holy  Spirit  is  everywhere  present,  the  all-fulfilling  
Law  and  Conserving  Principle  of Absolute  Beingness.  It is  the  
33 

provider of life  and  the  phenomenon  of life:  Life,  by reason of 
Its  nature.  Together  with  the  Father  and  the  most  Holy  Logos,  
It  controls  Life  in  its  absolute  nature  and  the  expression  of the 
phenomenon  of life.  Ether*,  as  substance  and  supersubstance,  
is   subject  to  the  direction  and  control  of the  Holy  Spirit,  when  
it   is  used  by  the  Archangels  and  angels  to  express  Total  Wis-
dom  within  the  expression  of  the  Divine  Ideas*.  This  is  not  
only  within  the  Human  Idea,  but  in  other  Ideas,  such  as  har-
mony,  movement,   composition,   analysis   and  other  abstract  
Ideas. 
The   Holy   Spirit  and   Its   co-workers   (the   Archangels)   
work   with   Total   Wisdom   and   Super-consciousness   in   the   
material body  and  the related  worlds,  to engender the phenom-
enon  of life. 
Each  expression  is  held  within  both  the  Logos  and  the  
Holy  Spirit.  There  is  no  part  of  Infinity  which  does  not  con-
tain  both  the  Holy  Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit.  Nevertheless,  
They  are  not  separate  gods,  but  expressions  of  One  and  the  
same  Absolute  Lord.  
Absolute   Beingness  is  Lord  of All,  the  Great  Father.  In  
the  human  body  we  have  the  head  and  heart,  which  express  
thought,  reason  and  love  (Christ  Logos)  and  the  solar  plexus,  
which   provides   power   and   instinctive   intelligence   (Holy   
Spirit). 
A  human  being  is  both  Logoic  and  Holy  Spiritual  and  
even  something beyond these  appellations.  It  is  a Holy  Monad  
within  Absolute  Beingness,  and  there  has  never  existed  any  
period  in  which  it     was  not.  The  Holy  Monad*  is  of the  eternal  
Nature  and  Condition  of Absolute  Beingness.  This  fact,  how-
ever,   is  fully  comprehensible  only  after  Theosis*,   when   a   
human  being's  centres  for receiving  impressions  are  no  longer  
34 

within  the  worlds  of the  phenomenon  of life. 
A  human  being,  as  an  emanation  of  a  Holy  Monad,  is  a  
most  valued  expression  of  Absolute  Beingness.  As  a  Being  
Spirit,  however,  when  It  is  passing  through  the  Human  Idea,  
which  is  a  part  of  the  Divine  Meditation,  It  begins  to  express  
Itself  within  the  universes  in  a  Logoic  way  as  a  Self-aware  
Soul. 
Subsequently,  when  it  descends  to  the  lower  vibratory  
pattern  of supermatter  and  matter,  in  order   to  live  through  the  
phenomenon  of  life,  it  also  becomes  a  Holy  Spiritual  expres-
sion.  This  means  that  the  gross  material  body,  and  the  higher  
bodies,  are  Holy  Spiritual  expressions,  through  the  medium  of  
Mind.  The  Holy  Spirit  constructs,  from  substance  and  super-
substance,  the  three  bodies  in  a  perfect  way,  so  as  to  reflect  
the  Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  Total  Love  of  God.  The  
Christ  Logos   uses   the   bodies   to  express   Its   own   Self  as,  
firstly,  a  self-aware  personality   and,   later,   as   a  Self-aware  
Soul.  We  are  all  miniature  Christ  Logoi  and  express  ourselves  
within  It.  The  Christ  Logos  is  the  light  'which  lighteth  every  
man  that  cometh  into  the  world'  (John  1:9),  and  the  universes  
resound in  harmony  with  Its  expression.  
Within  our  selves  there  is  an  area  of the  mind,  which  we  
call  the  subconscious*,  which  acts  as  a  creative  centre  for  
Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  Total  Love.  God  the  Holy  
Spirit   expresses   Itself   within   humanity   and,   although   It   
appears   to   be   impersonal,   It   builds   and   maintains   on   the   
matrix  of  the  subconscious,  the  material  and  other  bodies.  It  
provides  them  with  super-physical  qualities,  such  as  the  capa-
bility  of  matter  to  form  spermatozoa  and  the  impregnation  of  
the  latter  with  life  for  the  perpetuation  of the  species.  In  con-
sequence,  we  must  not  underestimate  that  part  of  the  Holy  
35 

Spirit's  work,  which  we call  subconscious  super-intelligence.  
We  have  said  that  the  gross  material  body  is  constructed  
according  to  a  model.  This  model  is  based  on  the  psychic  
body.  Subconsciously,  the  gross  material  body  has  a  psychic  
(an  emotional)  and  a  noetical  (a  reasoning)  body  which  have  
been  built  by  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  Christ  Logos  in  accor-
dance  with  Heavenly  Man*,  the  Human  Idea.  
So,  in  parallel with this model, which is    a significant fac-
tor  in  the  construction  of  the  psychic   and  noetical  bodies,  
there  is  also  the  work of the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  work of Arch-
angelic  Man,  who,  apart  from  the  characteristics  which  they  
bestow  in  common  upon  the  human  race,  transfer  faithfully  
every  detail  brought  by  the  permanent  personality,  which  the  
Permanant  Atom has  impressed  upon  it.  
The  Holy  Spirit,  we  might  say,  creates  in  us  a  subcon-
scious  Self-awareness.  We  call  this  Self-awareness  'subcon-
scious   absolute   Self-awareness',   because   the   Holy   Spirit   
works  within  us  in  an  impersonal  way.  When  we  use  the  term  
'Holy  Spirit',  we  intend  this  word  to  include  Total  Wisdom,  
Total  Power  and  Total  Love  and  to  express,  in  the  fullest  
sense,  the One  and  Only  Indivisible God. 
The  Holy  Spirit  is  God,  the  Provider  of  life.  However,  
Holy  Spiritual  life  is  a  phenomenon—an  appearance—in  the  
worlds  of Creation.  All  forms  of life  within  the  gross  material  
world—the  vast  blazing   sun,   the  galaxies,  the  planets,   all   
forms  of  the  animal,  vegetable  and  mineral  kingdoms—these  
are  expressions  of  the  Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  Total  
Love  of Absolute  Beingness.  They  possess  no  Self-awareness,  
in   the  sense  which  we  understand  today,  that  is  to  say  the  
Self-awareness  of  our  own  personality  selves.  Self-awareness  
is    a  part   of  Absolute   Super-consciousness,   in   a  particular  
36 

locality  within  time  and  space.  The  self-aware  self-conscious-
ness  of  humanity,  however,  is  at  different  stages.  It  varies  
from  total  ignorance,  where  there  is  very  little  light  as  far  as  
knowledge  is  concerned,  right  up  to  the  limits  of the  Everlast-
ing Light,  which we  call  Self-Realization*.  
We,  as  human  beings,  possess  what  we  have  called  Holy  
Spiritual  subconsciousness,  which  refines  in  our  gross  materi-
al    body   the  psychic  and  noetical   bodies  and  empowers  them  
with  Total  Wisdom.  It  is  that  part  of  Mind  within  our person-
ality  which  we  call  the  subconscious  mind.  Each  cell   and   
atom  of  our  gross  material  body  also  possesses  instinctual  
consciousness.  And,  as  we  have  said,  the  Holy  Spirit,  God,  
who  is  everywhere  present,  works  from  the  centre  of  each  
atom  and  cell,  apparently  beneath  Self-consciousness,  but  in  
reality  in  a super-conscious  way.  It  is  from  an infinite number 
of    points  that  It  simultaneously  manifests  Its  creative  force.  
We  have  seen  It  as  impersonal,  though  nevertheless  omnipo-
tent   and   totally   loving,   working   together   with   the   Christ   
Logos,  within  the  universes—from  the  material  to  the  mental  
and beyond—as  provided for in  the  Divine  Plan.  
That  part  of  our  self  which  we  call  the  present  day  or  
temporary  personality*  and  which  is  a  centre  for  the  collec-
tion  of  understandings  and  impressions  by  means  of the  sense  
organs,  has been  constructed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  and  is  primar-
ily  a  subconscious  self.  We  also,  opening  the  concept  to  a  
wider  meaning,  call  it  the  instinctive  ego.  It  does,  however,  
form the centre  of our Holy  Spiritual  life.  
So,  every  human  being,  animal  and  plant,  every  form  
which  is  provided  for us  by  the  phenomenon  of life,  also  con-
tains  the  Logoic  expression  (Self-awareness  in  the  case  of  
humanity),  which  is  always  within  the  Holy  Spiritual  ocean,  
37 

as    a  type  of  subconsciousness,  and  is  at  the  same  time  super-
conscious life. 
The  use  here  of  the  term  'subconscious'  arises  from  the  
fact  that  the  Holy  Spirit's  work  is  impersonal,  although  giving  
the  fullest  expression  to  God's  Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  
and  Total  Love.  In  the  gross  material  body,  the  Holy  Spirit  
works  beneath  conscious  awareness,  but  it  cooperates  con-
sciously   in   building  within  the  permanent  personality*   the   
phenomenon  of self-knowledge  and  self-awareness,  which  we  
call the ego  self.  
However, the Ego*  (with  a capital E)  is not what the per-
sonality   interprets   as   the   self.   Our   self-awareness   in   the   
worlds  of  separation  is  both  Holy  Spiritual  and  Logoic  in  its  
expression. 
The  development  of our  self,  at  the  various  stages  of  its  
expression,  from  the  shadows  of  ignorance  and  the  domina-
tion  of instinct to knowledge,  wisdom  and  Theosis,  is  nurtured  
with  the  care  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  Christ  Logos,  within  
the  universes  and  within  our  selves  too.  This  is  the  phenome-
non  of  life,  which  consists  of  continuous  change,  constantly  
giving  new form to matter. 
We  are,  however,  our eternal  Ego  Self, which has  not yet 
been made  manifest  in  most human  beings.  It  is  manifested  in  
Theosis  after  Self-Realization,  and  becomes  assimilated  with  
our Holy  Monadic  Self,  which  has  never  left  Absolute  Being-
ness. 
38 

CHAPTER  FOUR  
HUMANITY 
And  God said,  Let  us  make  man  in  our  own  image  and  after  our  
likeness;  and  let  them  have  dominion  over  the  fish  of  the  sea  
and  over  the fowl  of the  air  and  over  the  beasts  and  over  all  the  
earth   and  over   every   creeping   thing   that   creepeth   upon   the   
earth.  So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image  of  
God  created  He  him;  male  and female  created He  them.  
(Genesis  1:26,27)  
These  verses  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  are  full  of  wisdom.  
Before  anything  else  was  created,  humanity  had  been  con-
ceived  within  the  Divine  Meditation  of  Absolute  Beingness  
and  had  been  impressed  upon  the  causal  and  noetic  worlds  of  
Ideas.  These  Ideas,  the  work  of  God's  Total  Wisdom,  Total  
Power and Total Love,  are  the  super-perfect models,  on which 
all  Creation  is  built.  Absolute  Beingness,  by  Its  word,  created  
the  heavens—all  the  universes;  the  causal*,  noetic,  noetical,  
psychic  and  gross  material.  
All   the   phenomena   of  life   are   created   solely   by   Its   
'word',  with  the  exception,  that  is,  of humanity  and  the  other  
Beings.  Humanity  is  not  created;  it  is  emanated.  God  Himself  
conceived  the  material  form  of humanity,  from  the  clay  mod-
elled  with  His  own  saliva.  And  He  did  not  tell  the  soulless  
shape   simply   to   live,   He  transfused   it  with  breath   of  His  
Breath  and  life  of  His  Life  (cf.  Gen.  2:7).  For  this  reason,  
39 

humanity  is  less  a  creation  and  more  an  offspring.  A  human  
being  is  the  beloved  child,  destined  by  its  Parent  to  taste  the  
good  and  the  bad,  so  that  it  can  shape  its  own  judgement  of  
what  to  accept and  what to reject. 
A  human  being  as  the  Microcosm,  a faithful  likeness  of  
the  Macrocosm,  is  the  image  and  likeness  of Absolute  Being-
ness.  'As  above,  so below.'
1  
It   is  one  of  the  infinite  Holy  Monads  which  are  within  
Absolute   Beingness,   as   elements   of   Its   Multiplicity,   and   
which  project  and  express  themselves  as  a  result  of  Divine  
Will-pleasure.   For   the   Will-pleasure   of  God,   is   our   will-
pleasure  as  well.  
As   a   Holy   Monad,   the   Self  as   a   Spirit-Ego-Being*,   
humanity  differs  little  from  the  Archangels.  It  is  the  Archan-
gelic  Man*.  It  projects  itself,  however,  through  the  Human  
Idea  and  from  that moment  takes  on  its  own  separate  radiance  
within  Absolute  Beingness.  It     enters  into  a separate  domain  of  
Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  Total  Love  as  a  Self-aware  
Soul.  Now  we  have  two  foundations  for  the  Inner  Self:  the  
Holy  Monadic  Self within  Absolute  Beingness  and  its  projec-
tion  which  has  passed  through  the  Human  Idea  as  a  Self-
aware  Soul.  Our  Holy  Monadic  Self takes  on  a  rather  separate  
existence  from  that  of  the  Archangels,  when  they  too  have  
passed  through  an  Idea  (of  the  Archangelic  Orders)  which  is  
Theirs  to express. 
The  Human  Idea  and  Archangelic  Man  provide  human-
ity   privileges   which   the   Archangels   do  not  enjoy.   In   the   
Human  Idea  we  have  a mould  of a  sort,  within  which  the  Holy  
Monad  takes  on  form,  (even  though  in  reality  what  takes  on  
1
  From  The  Emerald  Tablets  of Hermes  Trismegistus.  
40 

form  is  not  the  Holy  Monad  itself,  which  remains  unchanged,  
but its  projection).  This  projection  is  what we call  our  perma-
nent personality  and  is  our personality's  Ego.  
This Ego  has  been  projected  in  incarnations  by  our  Self-
aware  Soul  Self,   into  the  worlds  of  space-place-time.  This  
Ego,  our  permanent  personality,  is  eternal  and  made  of  im-
mortal   supersubstance.   
The  permanent  personality,  descending  into  the  worlds  
of    experience,  takes  on  its  own  colour  and  designs  its  own  
projections.  As  long  as  it  remains  in  the  worlds  of  time  and  
space-place,  it  assumes  many  names,  dons  many  temporary  
personalities   and   expresses   itself   in   many   ways   in   these   
worlds. 
Let us  try to  understand  this  point.  Just as  our Self-aware 
Soul  has  projected  from  the  Spirit-Ego-Being  that  part  which  
we  call  the  permanent  personality,  the  permanent  personality  
in   turn  projects  into  the  worlds  its  shadow,  which  is  endowed  
with  the phenomenon  of life,  our  temporary  personalities.  Our  
permanent  personality  self is    not  entirely  within  the  worlds  of  
separation,  as  it     partakes  in the  Soul.  Only  a part of it    is.  How-
ever,  the  permanent  personality  must  record  the  impressions  
and   experiences   it   has   received   in   the   space-place-time   
worlds.  It  designs,  therefore,  with  matter-substance  of  which  
it  is  itself constructed  as  a gross  material,  psychic  and noetical 
body,  a  centre.  This  centre  is  situated  in  our  etheric  heart,  
whose  position  in  the  bodies  is  exactly  the  same  as  that  of our 
material  heart.  We call  this  centre  the permanent  atom*.  
The   permanent  atom,   which   is   material,   psychic   and   
noetical,  is  established  from  the  moment  the  Self-aware  Soul  
has  first  expressed  Itself  as  a  permanent  personality.  It  is  a  
book  in  which  the  permanent  personality  records,  from  the  
41 

moment  of  its  first  incarnation,   its  experiences,  behaviour,  
emotions  and  thoughts.  
Everything  is  written  in  the  permanent  atom  in  our  per-
manent  personality,  which  keeps  the  book  of  records  in  its  
possession.  The  records  of the  permanent atom  develop  simul-
taneously  in  the  material,  psychic  and  noetical  bodies.  In  the  
gross  material  world  the  records  can  differ  according  to  the  
degree  of  development  of  the  separate  personalities,  the  per-
manent and  the  temporary.  In  the  psychic  and  noetical  worlds,  
the  records  are  held  by  the  Guardian  Archangel*  and  the  per-
manent  personality.  
Later,  when  a  human  being  passes  over ('dies'),  the  pre-
sent  day  and  the  permanent  personality  withdraw  into  the  psy-
chic  world  and  there  study  and  evaluate  the  various  records  
which  have  been  made,  and  derive  the  necessary  judgements  
and  corrections.  This  is  why  some  have  termed  the  psychic  
world,  'The  great  halls  of  learning'.  Subsequently,  after  they  
have  remained  in  the  psychic  world  long  enough  to  form  the  
necessary  balance,  they  withdraw  to the  noetical  world,  where  
they  carry  out  corresponding  work  and  absorb  the  required  
lessons,  in  order  to  be  better  prepared  for  their  next  incarna-
tion.  For most of us  these  transitions  are  comforting.  The  path  
is   always  one  of development,  however  varied  the  rhythms  of  
such  development  may  seem.  
The  Holy  Monadic  human,  one  of  the  infinity  of  Holy  
Monads   within   Absolute   Beingness,   is   a  characteristic   of   
Divine  Multiplicity.  It  is  the  Microcosm,  the  image  and  like-
ness  of  the  Macrocosm,  and  expresses  itself  within  its  own  
Selfhood,  within Absolute  Beingness.  
There  is  nothing  in  the  way  of gross  matter,  which  is  not  
within  the  body  of a human.  There  is  no  psychic  matter  what-
42 

ever,  which  is  not  within  its psychic  body  and there  is  nothing  
in   the  mental  worlds,  which  does  not  exist  within  its  noetical  
body.  This  is  the Divine Magnificence. 
The  Whole  exists  in  the  least  as  it  does  in  the  largest.  
Everything  in  Creation,  however  humble  it  may  seem  to  be,  
contains  in  full  measure  the  Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  
Total Love  of Absolute  Beingness.  
Humanity   as   a   Holy   Monad   is   imperishable.   Both   
humanity   and   the   Archangels   are   emanations   of  Absolute  
Beingness  within  Itself.  
Let  us  now  return  our attention  to  our permanent  person-
ality  which  projects  into  the  place-time  worlds  present-day  
personalities  in  order to  gain  experience  and  to  clothe  itself in 
knowledge,    so  as  to  travel  safely  towards  at-one-ment  with  
the  Divine.  
We  can  conceive  that  our  earthly  self  is  not  simply  our  
temporary  personality.  If  it     were,  it  would  have  no  meaning  
apart  from  a  random  name,  desires,  thoughts  and  interests,  
which  are  continually  changing.  The  latter,  as  we have  said,  is  
called  the  phenomenon  of  life  and  from  this  point  of  view  
humanity  differs  very  little  from  the  various  forms  of  life  in  
the  animal  kingdom.  
What,  then,  is  the  relationship  between  the  permanent  
personality  and  present  personalities?  And  what  is  the  rela-
tionship  between  our  selves  of  past  incarnations  and  the  self  
of   the  permanent  personality?  We  think  it     is  sufficient  to  say  
that  each  incarnation  is  simply  a  mask,  which  the  permanent  
personality  puts  on.  
If   we  reckon  that  our  permanent  personality  self has  put  
on  many  personalities,  in  time  and  space-place,  in  different  
43 

epochs,  and  that  it  has  lived  in  many  different  ways,  and,  if  
we  could  simultaneously  call  to  mind  all the experiences  it    has 
had,  right  up  to  the  latest,  we  would  see  that  all  these  are  
merely  impressions  in  the  worlds  of  pain  and  joy.  Who  is  it  
that feels? Who  thinks?  Is  our  self of yesterday  different from 
that  of today?  Who  had  yesterday's  experiences?  
Using  the  permanent  personality  we  can  make  compari-
sons  between  the  impressions  from  the  distant  past  and  those  
of   the  present,  and  begin  to  understand  the  nature  of the  Eter-
nal  Now.  There is  no great significance for our permanent per-
sonality  in  the name  it     will  be  known  by  in  later incarnations, 
or    the circumstances  in  which  it     will exist. 
We  think  of  our  temporary  selves  as  flawed,  because  
they  are  perishable,  but  there  is  an  immortal  part  of  them,  
which,  by  means  of some  exercises  and  by  an  examination  of  
our  Inner  Being,  we  can  discover  and  with  which  we  can  
establish  continuous   communication.   
We  know  that  the  gross  material  body  is  perishable,  in  
the  sense  that  matter  is  always  in  a  state  of change.  Our  psy-
chic  body,  through  which  we  receive  impressions  of  the  psy-
chic   world,   the   world   of   desires   and   emotions,   is   also   
changeable  and  perishable.  The  noetical  body,  though  more  
rarefied  than  the  other  bodies,  is,  as  well,  malleable  and,  with  
each  passing  over,  is  dissolved  into  the  noetic  state.  It  is  our  
Spirit-Ego-Being that  is  eternal.  
What,  then,  is  the  relationship  of our  Spirit-Ego-Being  to  
our  Self-aware  Soul?  What  is  the  relationship  between  the  
Self-aware  Soul  and  the  permanent personality? 
Our  permanent  personality  enters  the  worlds  of  separa-
tion  as  temporary  personalities,  which  live  the  sort  of lives  we  
are  all familiar with,  receiving lessons  along the  way.  The per-
44 

manent  personality  Self  is  the  small  circle,  which  opens  out  
until  it     reaches,  some  day,  the  circumference  of the  large  cir-
cle, which is   called the Self-aware  Soul.  
Thus  we  can  see,  in  every  human  being,  two  concentric  
circles.  One,  which  has  a  vast  circumference,  is  our  Soul  in  
Self-awareness.  Within  that  vast  circle  and  starting  from  its  
centre, we  will  see  another small circle.  This circle  is our Self-
aware  Soul  permanent personality.  Why  do  we  call  it    the  Self-
aware   Soul-permanent   personality?   Because   the   circle   is   
within  the  larger  circle  and  there  is  no  part  of  it    which  is  not  
also part  of that  larger circle  and having  the  same  centre.  
The  small  circle  widens  continuously  to  the  point  where  
its    circumference  is  the  same  as  that  of the  larger circle.  Does  
the  small  circle  get  lost  when  it     is  absorbed  by  the  larger  cir-
cle?  Will  any  of the experience  of the  small  circle  be  lost?  No.  
The   smaller,   within   the   larger,   expands   until   it   becomes   
assimilated.  Our  permanent  personality  self,  by  means  of dif-
ferent  incarnations  and  experiences,  will  enlarge  itself  to  the  
point  where  it  becomes  one  with  our  Self-aware  Soul.  'For  
this  corruptible  must  put  on  incorruption,  and  this  mortal  must  
put on immortality'  (1  Cor.  15:53).  
Our  self  of  today,  the  one  we  think  of  when  we  say  'I  
am,  I feel,  I  think,  I  understand  this  or that',  we  shall  not lose, 
as    it  belongs  to  our  eternal  Selfhood.  By  looking  within,  we  
undertand  that  the  impressions  and  experiences  which  make  
up  our  daily  self are  continually  criss-crossed  by  others  which  
come  to  us.  We  shall  see  that  the  thoughts,  desires  and  emo-
tions   of   the   past   have   little   connection   with   the   desires,   
thoughts  and  emotions  we  are  living  through  this  day.  Nev-
ertheless,  we who were thinking in the past are the  same  as we 
who  are  thinking  today.  Can  we  now  define  our  permanent  
45 

personality  self  as  a  centre  which  can  receive  impressions?  
The  permanent  atom,  we  have  said,  contains  all  experience  
and  knowledge   and   is,   according   to  the   Law,   that   which   
creates  the  ability  to  compare  our  understanding   of  events  
with  the  greater  reality.  It  is  there  that  each  personality  re-
cords the  behaviour,  the  way  of thinking,  of feeling  and  living  
of   every  human  existence.  
When  a  cycle  of  earthly  life  is  complete,  the  permanent  
personality  of  a  human  being   dissolves  the  gross   material   
body  and  withdraws  the  permanent  atom  along  with  the  tem-
porary  personality  into  the  psychic  world.  There,  our  tempo-
rary  personality,  according  to  its  composition  and  the  quality  
of    its  permanent  atom,  will  arrive  at  the  corresponding  plane  
or   sub-plane  of the  psychic  world.  
In    the   psychic   world,   the   permanent   personality,   by   
means  of  the  permanent  atom,  will  begin  to  record  experi-
ences,  still  wearing  the  mask  of  its  last  incarnation.  Our  self,  
within  the  psychic  world,  has  a  double  existence,  as  perma-
nent  and  present  personalities.  This  duality  is  difficult  for  us  
to   understand  from  the  viewpoint  of  gross  material  existence.  
Nevertheless,  it     is  easy  to  find,  once  we  are  living  in  the  psy-
chic  body.  It  is  our permanent  personality—our  right-thinking  
self—which  comforts  our  last  temporary  personality  self  as  it  
feels,  even  here,  pain  and  joy,  according  to  its  thoughts  and  
behaviour while  in  the  gross  material  world.  
There   are   indeed   hells   and   paradises   (humanly   con-
structed  places  of experience  and  valuable  lessons).  Our   tem-
porary   personality   (name,   nationality,   the   totality   of   our   
desires,  thoughts  and  ambitions)  creates  and  experiences  these  
environments,  while  our  permanent  personality,   along   with   
our  Guardian  Archangel,  observes  and  is  edified.  We  must  
46 

remember  though,   that   the   permanent   personality   and   our   
Guardian  Archangel  are  not  apart  from  us  looking  down,   but   
are  within  us  all  along.  By  means  of searching  within  we  can  
know  Them.  When  we  do,  we  shall  be  among  those  who  will  
not 'see death',  as our Lord Jesus Christ  says  (cf.  John  8:51).  
The  permanent  personality,  when  it     has  no  further expe-
riences  to  collect  in  the  psychic  world,  withdraws  the  tempo-
rary  personality  into  the  noetical  world,  to  the  relevant  plane  
or    sub-plane  of that  world.  
In   the  psychic  world  there  are  seven  planes  and  forty-
nine sub-planes,  as there are  also in the  noetical.  
From   the   noetical   planes,   the   present   personality   is   
moved  into  the  noetic  state,  now  having  dissolved  the  remain-
ing  discernable  body.  The  essentials  of  personality  are  now  
contained  within  the  permanent  atom.  
After  having  absorbed  the  impressions  from  the  noetic  
state,  the  temporary  personality  has  fulfilled  an  incarnation.  
For  those  whose  experience  throughout  this  process  was  trau-
matic  and  sobering,  they  are  allowed to  withdraw  and fall  into  
a  state  of blissful  rest.  Others  are  prepared  to  move  on,  with-
out delay,  and begin  a new  cycle,  a new descent. 
During  this  period,  to which  all  are subject,  the  Lords  of  
Destiny,  the  Lords  of Cause  and Effect,  give  to  the  permanent  
personality  of  each  human  being,  even  those  in  the  deepest  
hells,  the  noetical  substance  it     needs,  which  will  later  be  used  
by  the  personality  and  the  Archangels  of  Creation,  together  
with the  Holy  Spirit,  to  build  its new noetical body. 
Subsequently,  it  projects  again  into  the  psychic  world  
and  waits  in  an  expectant  state  till  the  Lords  of  Destiny  once  
again  give  it  psychic  substance,  with  which  to  build  its  psy-
47 

chic  body.  After that,  the  new  temporary  personality  descends  
into  the  etheric  double  of  the  gross  material  world  and  the  
Lords   of  Destiny,  having   in  mind   the   individual's   karmic   
state,  the Laws  of Love,  Compassion  and  Mercy,  will  give  the  
permanent  personality  the  environment  in  which  to  incarnate  
its    new  temporary  personality.  
Those  who  have  developed  their  psycho-noetical  facul-
ties   to   a   sufficent   state   of  heightened   consciousness   and   
awareness  (you  may  call  them  masters)  have  control  over this 
process  and  remain  fully  conscious  throughout  the  whole  pro-
cedure.  Furthermore,  such  individuals  can  often  decide  where  
and when  they   will   return   to  the   lower planes.  Some   mas-
ters  decide  they  are  of  more  help  out  of  the  gross  material  
world,  while  others continue to work with us in body. 
The  great  Lords  of  Mercy  and  Destiny  have  given  our  
personality  material  corresponding  to the  quality  of the perma-
nent atom.  They  also  give the opportunity,  in  the new  incarna-
tion,   to  use   more  and  purer  substance  in  order  to  further  
develop.  Having  been  given  this  opportunity,  it    is  through  our  
own  efforts,  our   own  understanding  and  our   own  free  will  
that  our  personalities  must  pursue  purification.  This  is  the  
inestimable  Law  of Divine  Mercy.  
We  are  subject to Law.  We  also have free  will, however, 
and  every  possibility  and  probability  for  repentence*  and  rep-
aration.  From  the  permanent  personality  and  from  the  new  
temporary  personality  which  is  to  be  constructed,  effort  and  
will-power  will  be  required,  in  order  to  achieve  the  necessary  
purification. 
By  looking  within,  we  can  see  the  differences  which  
exist  between  our  temporary  personality,  as  the  sum  of  our  
desires   and  thoughts   in  the   gross  material  world,   and  our  
48 

Self-aware  Soul in  the  Eternal Now. 
We  can  clearly  discern  our  permanent   personality  in  the  
gross  material,  psychic  and  noetical  worlds.  We  can  examine  
its    wisdom,  study  its  love;  we  can  extend  it     and  assimilate  it  
into  our  Self-aware  Soul.  There  will  be  a  moment  when  we  
are  baptised,  not  with  water,  but  with  fire  and  with  Spirit.  
What  that  moment  will  be  for  us  is  not  easy  to  describe.  Will  
it  be,  perhaps,  a deliverance?  It    is  not,  however,  the end  of our 
road. 
It   is  a  resting-place;  the first,  perhaps,  of the  shining  and  
beautiful  staging posts.  We  will  understand, for  the  first time, 
that we  are now  on  our way  to  the  worlds  of light  and life.  We  
have  left  behind  the  worlds  of  separation  and  are  entering,  
with  our  experience  under  our  arms,  into  the  worlds  of  deliv-
erance. 
We  still  have  to  continue  along  the  path  until  we  realize  
our   Self-aware  Soul-Self,  with  the  difference,  however,  that  
this  Self  is  now  known  to  us.  That  happens  through  our  own  
efforts  as  a personality.  The purpose of our efforts,  as humans, 
is   Self-Realization,  and  subsequently,  at-one-ment  and  unifi-
cation  with Absolute  Beingness  (Theosis*).  
The  Immortal  Human  is  threefold,  as  is  Absolute  Being-
ness.  It  too  has  its  Beingness,  the  Logos  and  a  Holy  Spiritual  
counterpart. 
Whatsoever   exists   in   the   universes,   whatever   exists   
within  Creation,  exists  also  in  humanity.  Every  single  thing,  
and that includes humanity,  is  in Absolute  Beingness.  
The  Christ  Logos   says,   'My  father  is   greater  than  I'  
(John  14:28).  This is the truth, even though it   is difficult for us 
to   comprehend.  We  have,  however,  a  link  between  Absolute  
49 

Beingness,  the  Father,  and  Its  expression  as  the  Holy  Spirit.  
This  link  is  Its  expression  as  Logos,  which  proceeds  from  the  
Father-Absolute  Beingness  and  contains  absolute  Total  Wis-
dom,  Total  Power  and  Total  Love  as   well  as  many  other  
things  to  which  the  human  intellect  has  little  access.  It  is  
omnipotent,  omnipresent  and  omniscient  and  Its  projections  
are infinite.  It    is   God beyond any comprehensible concept. 
In   a  similar  way,  our  Innermost  Self  is  formless  Spirit,  
eternal,  infinite,  from  which  we  draw,  after  our  emanation,  
Total  Power,  Total  Wisdom  and  Total  Love.  Let  us  not  ima-
gine  that,  before  humanity  as  Spirit  has  passed  through  the  
Human  Idea,  it  is  something  insignificant  or  small.  No!  It  is  
God,  God-Logos  as  a Spirit-Ego-Being. 
Now,  let  us  pause  for  a  little  in  the  world  of Ideas.  The  
Human  Idea,  like  all  the  other  Ideas,  is  within  the  Divine  
Meditation   of  Absolute   Beingness.   But   what   is   an   Idea?   
Surely  it  is  something  which  a  Logos-Spirit  is  expressing  in  
the  Eternal  Now.  Who  decides  which  of  the  Holy  Monadic  
Beings  will  pass  through  the  Human  Idea?  We  ourselves,  of  
our  own  free  will,  decide  and  it  is,  at  this  point,  where  the  
absolute  freedom  of  humanity  is  established  and  authorised.  
Hereafter  we  choose  the  way  in  which  we  create  our  Self-
awarenesses,  which is  essential  for our eventual return to The-
osis. 
Humanity  passes  through  the  Archangelic  Idea,  which  is  
a matrix  containing  the  Human Idea.  This  matrix  is  a  creation  
of    Absolute   Beingness,   through   which   the   Holy   Monadic   
Beings  can  pass,  in  order  to  become,  from  that  instant,  Self-
aware  Souls.  Our  Self  as  a  Spirit-Ego-Being  before  it  passed  
through  the  Human  Idea,  was  Self-aware  Life.  It  was  not,  
however,    Self-awareness    in    space-place-time,    which    is    
50 

something  desirable  to  the  Spirit.  It  was  within  the  All,  and  
although  it    was  a  Holy  Monad,  it     could not comprehend  itself  
as    something  separate  within  Absolute  Beingness.  From  the  
moment  that  it  passes  through  the  Human  Idea  it  gains  Soul  
Self-awareness. 
We  see  Self-awareness  at  different  stages.  We  see  it  as  
Subconscious  self-awareness,  as  conscious  self-awareness  and  
as    super-conscious  Self-awareness.  
A  Spirit-Ego-Being  within Absolute  Beingness,  that  is  to  
say  before  Its  emanation,  lives  in  Absolute  Blessedness.  But  
Holy  Monadic  Beings have to pass  through the Human Idea in 
order to incarnate,  to know  the phenomenon of life,  to become 
an    individuated  Being  so  as  to  return  to  Absolute  Beingness,  
in  order to  create  the  condition  where  'All  is  in  all'  (cf.l  Cor.  
15:26).  This  is  the  privilege  solely  of  those  Holy  Monadic  
Beings  who  pass  through  the  Human  Idea  and  no  others,  not  
even  the  Archangels,  can  reach  this  type  of  Self-Realization  
within  individuation.  This  is  why  it  is  essential  for  the  Holy  
Monadic   Beings   to  know   the  phenomenon   of  life   in   the   
worlds  of space-place-time. 
When  the  Spirit  enters  the  Human  Idea,  a  part  of it    pro-
jects  Itself and  becomes  the  wondrous  Soul  in  Self-awareness.  
The  stature  of the  Self-aware  Soul  is  of small  account  in com-
parison  with  the   Spirit.   Our  Spirit-Ego-Being,   in  size   and   
brightness,  resembles  the  Sun.  The  Self-aware  Soul,  though,  
can only  be likened to  a bundle of the  Sun's rays. 
Our   Holy  Monadic  Self,  as  a  whole,  does  not  enter into 
the  Human  Idea,  nor  will  it  incarnate.  Its  ray,  nevertheless,  
which  descends  into  the  worlds  of experience  is  qualitatively  
the same  as  the eternal  Holy  Monadic  Spirit-Ego-Being.  
Who  has  created  the  human  form?  Who  has  formed  the  
51 

three  bodies,  in  such  a complex  way,  to  allow  a  Being  to  live  
there comfortably? 
The  Human  form,  a  most  cherished  child  of God's  Will,  
is  created by  Absolute  Beingness  Itself,  fashioned  in the  'like-
ness'  of its Creator (cf.  Gen.  1:26).  
The  expression  of  the  form  as  a  phenomenon  of  life,  is  
possible  thanks  to  the  Archangels  of  the  elements  who  con-
struct  and  help  maintain  each  of  our  bodies.  They,  together  
with  the  permanent  personality  and  the  Guardian  Archangel,  
allow  the  process  of incarnations,  of sowing  a  series  of tempo-
rary  personalities  into the  worlds  of separation. 
Each  new  temporary  personality—no  more  than  a  mask  
worn  by  the  permanent  personality—is  the  joint  creation  of  
the Guardian Archangel  and  the  permanent personality. 
The  present  day  personality  is  capable,  thoughtful  and  
desirous  of  projecting  etheric  energy  in  the  creation  of  ele-
mentals.  Its  appointed  task,  however,  is  to  supply  the  perma-
nent  personality  with  knowledge  and  experience  and  nothing  
more  than  that.  
As  temporary  personalities   we   are   shortlived.   In  this  
case,  though,  the  limits  of  the  personality  include  the  three  
bodies,  desires,  thoughts,  ambitions  and,  in  general,  the  total-
ity  of the  phenomenon  of life. 
We  must  not  be  concerned  by  the  knowledge  that,  at  
some  point,  our  temporary  personality  and  our  material  body  
will  be dissolved.  For the  same  will happen to our psychic  and  
noetical   bodies.   Nevertheless,   something   remains.   We   our   
selves remain!  We, who at this moment  say  'I   am I',  who feel, 
without  thinking  of  our  name,  and  who  function  as  an  inner  
nature  beyond  the  ebb  and flow  of emotion and desires. 
52 

How  many  thoughts  and  desires  have  we  not  cast  away,  
only  for them  to  be  succeeded  by  purer  and more  mature  ones  
and  how  much  material  have  we  not  thrown  out  when  we  
judged  it  to  be  useless?  As  we  receive,  we  also  discard.  But  
who receives? Who  chooses?  Who  discards?  Our  own person-
ality!  Our name  today,  our desires,  our thoughts,  our interests, 
all     these  will  continue,  after  the  dissolution  of  our  material  
body,  to  exist  in  the  psychic  world  and  later  in  the  noetical  
world.  Man  is  not  only  projected  in  the  gross  material  world,  
but in the  psychic  and noetical  worlds too. 
We  are  terrified,  living  on  Earth,  when  we  see  a person-
ality  pass  over  ('die')  and  its  material  body  dissolve.  How-
ever,   the   one   who   leaves   does   not  have   this   impression,   
because he  does not perceive  the phenomenon of death, just  as  
we  do  not  take  notice  of  the  phenomenon  of  slipping  into  
sleep.  While  sleeping,  we  all  leave  our  material  bodies  (in  
subconscious  exosomatosis*),  but  we  feel  no  discomfort.  It  is  
;
 indeed  a necessary  condition.  
Often  human  beings,  seeing  fellow  human  beings  depart  
and  leave  behind  the  material  body  ask,  'Are  they  suffering?  
Are  they  feeling  any  pain?'  Certainly  not!  Physical  pain  is  a  
concept  which  we  find  only  in  the  material  world  and  not  in  
the  moment  of passing  over  to  the  other  side.  Let  us  not  mis-
judge  our  personality's  Divine  state  of  deliverance  from  the  
material body,  when it   has  no further need of it. 
After  so-called   'death',   the  permanent   atom  is  trans-
formed  from  the  substance  and  material  it  has  been  till  then,  
into light.  Knowledge  is  converted into wisdom. 
We  have,  as  an  example,  fire,  which  gives  a  flame  as  
long  as  it    has  some material  to burn.  When it    has exhausted  its  
fuel, the light ceases to exist for our material eyes. 
53 

We  can  see  that  a  sick  man  does  undergo  pain  before  
departing  in  accordance  with  the  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect*  
(karma).  'Death',  even  after  an  illness  of many  years,  is  pain-
less.  The  departed  feels  lighter,  freer  and  if his  physical  body  
is    wounded,   its   psychic   counterpart   will   not   have   these   
wounds. 
When  he  has  departed,  he  will  find  himself on  the  rele-
vant  plane  or  subplane  of the  psychic  world,  according  to  the  
life   lived   by   his   last   personality   coupled   with   whatever   
impressions  his  permanent  atom  has  collected.  
The  permanent  atom  and  the  permanent  personality  self  
are  constructed  of  etheric  vitality.   Our  lower  bodies  grow  
increasingly  Holy  Spiritual  according  to  density  of ether.  The  
permanent  personality  and  the  Self-aware  Soul  are  predomi-
nantly  Logoic.  Do  not  suppose,  however,  that we  are  begotten  
of   the  Christ Logos,  which  is  not  our True  Father.  Christ  calls  
us    brothers.  'I  ascend  unto  my  Father  and  your  Father  and  to  
my  God  and  your God'  (John  20:17).  
He  is  the  Absolute  Logos.  Each  of  us,  as  a  Self-aware  
Soul  is  a  Logos.  Are  there  then  many  Logoi?  As  many  as  
there  are  Archangels.  Each Archangel,  the  myriads  of Archan-
gels  of  the  same  kind,  are  Logoic  and  Holy  Spiritual.  The  
Christ  Logos,  though,  is  the  fullest  expression  of  Absolute  
Beingness.  He  is,  according  to  the  Church,  'Of  all  Holies  the  
Most  Holy  Logos.'  
But  let  us  not  underestimate  ourselves,  when  we  live  in  
the  gross  material  world  as  temporary  personalities  and  are  
exposed   to   suffering   and   desire.   We   are   Holy   Monadic   
Beings,  Spirit-Ego-Beings,  integral  parts  of  Absolute  Being-
ness,  'Sons  of Man'. 
Let  us  not,  on  the  other  hand,  worship  the  Human  Idea,  
54 

but   Absolute   Beingness   who   with   Its   Divine   Meditation   
creates  the  Ideas  and  the  universes.  The  Majesty  of the  Crea-
tor  is  visible  in  the  heaven  of  the  gross  material  world.  It  is  
made  clearer  and  more  apparent  in  the  psychic  worlds.  And  
even  more  does  the  noetical  world  declare  it  to  us.  No  one  
beyond  the  worlds,  whether  human  being,  Archangel  or  angel  
needs  to  be  told  of  the  Majesty  of the  Eternal  One.  The  Holy  
Monads   live   with   the   Majesty   of   the   Highest,   at   every   
moment,  being  'within  the Joy of the Lord.' 
Earthly  joy  is  nothing  in  comparison  with  Divine  Bles-
sedness.  But  what Divine  Blessedness  is,  no human  words  can  
express.   'Eye   hath   not   seen,   nor   ear   heard,   neither  have  
entered  into  the  heart  of  man  the  things  which  God  hath  pre-
pared for them  that love Him'  (Luke  3:16).  
Our  permanent  atom  is  greater  than  are  our  different  
bodies  (material,  psychic  and  noetical).   It  is,  so  to  speak,  the  
diary  of our  permanent  personality.  This  book  always  accom-
panies  the  permanent  personality,  who  inscribes  upon  it—the  
pain  and joy—during  its journey towards  reunion.  
Now,  this  raises  the  question  of  what  name  the  perma-
nent personality  should  bear,  since  within  the  permanent  atom  
hundreds  of  names  have  been  recorded.  What  desires,  emo-
tions  and  thoughts  does  it  bring  with  it,  since  they  change  
daily  at  every  stage?  What  thoughts  does  it  have?    When    
returning,  the  permanent  personality  carries  with  it  only  the  
experience.  Nothing else. 
Here  we  should  note  that  human  beings,  in  the  noetic  
state,  keep   only   the  experience  they  have   acquired  in  the  
worlds  of  space-place-time  but  tend  not  to  remember  many  
details. 
55 

Selfhood as  a General   Concept   
The  Selfhood  of each  of us  extends  from  ourselves  as  a  
Spirit-Ego-Being  (our  unexpressed  Holy  Monadic  Self)  as  it  
remains  in  at-one-ment  with  Absolute  Beingness,  and  reaches  
down to the  often  struggling  present  day  personality.  The  cen-
tral  task  of  each  Soul  is  to  reunify  the  self—after  its  enrich-
ment  through  the  cycles  of incarnations—into  the  unified  Self  
in   Theosis.  
The  Selfhood,  accounting  for  the  various  expressions,  is  
in   the  image  and  likeness  of  Absolute  Beingness.  In  what  
way, though,  are we Its image  and likeness? 
Firstly,  we  have  Self-sufficiency.  As  Absolute  Beingness  is  
without  any  needs,  we,  macrocosmically,  contain  within  us  
everything;  'The  Kingdom  of Heavens  is  within you.' 
Secondly,  we  can,  as  a Logoic  expression  of Absolute  Being-
ness,  express  ourselves  within  our   own  universe,  which  is  a  
microcosm, just  as  It  expresses  Its  Logoic  Self within  Its  uni-
verses,   the macrocosm. 
Thirdly,  we  have  the  power  of  thought,  of  emotion  and  of  
love.  We  can,  indeed,  express  our  Self as  will,  independently  
of   an  environment.  
Fourthly,  We  have  been  blessed  with  the  gift  and the  respon-
sibility  of   procreation.  In  this  way  we  are  co-creators  within  
the Divine Plan,  with  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  Holy Logos. 
The Selfhood is  a single  umbrella,  encompassing four discern-
able  expressions:  
Spirit-Ego-Being 
Our  Real  Self,  in  at-one-ment  with  the  Multiplicity  and  
56 

the  Self-sufficiency  of  Absolute  Beingness.  The  Spirit-Ego-
Being  projects  a  ray  of Itself into  Creation.  The  Will-pleasure  
of   Absolute  Beingness  to  express  Itself in  Itself,  is  identical  to  
the  Will-pleasure  of  the  Spirit-Ego-Being  to  express  Itself.  
The  Spirit-Ego-Being  is  not  properly  considered  an  expres-
sion of the Selfhood,  rather it   is    a creator of the Selfhood. 
Self-aware  Soul  
We  become  a  Self-aware  Soul  the  moment  a  ray  of  the  
Sprit-Ego-Being  passes  through  the  Human  Idea,  at  which  
point   we   understand   our   Self  as   something   complete,   but   
which is, however,   seemingly  separated from the Whole. 
The  Self-aware  Soul  with  its  projections  is  both  Being-
ness  and  existence.  Beingness,  as  our  real  nature,  is  the  start-
ing-point.  That  of existence  is  the  other end  of the  continuum,  
where  it  plunges  into  the  worlds  of  experience  and  develop-
ment. 
Permanent   Personality   
Described  by  some  as,  'the  feet  of  the  soul',  this  self  is  
an    expression  of,  and  in  union  with,  the  Self-aware  Soul  (our  
Inner  Self)  in  the  worlds  of  time  and  place.  The  permanent  
personality  contains   within  its   being   all   the  Divine  Laws,  
Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  Total  Love.  It  is  the  task  of  
the  permanent  personality  to  select  and  supervise  the  lives  and  
experiences  of the  temporary  personalities,  and  through  this  
process  itself becomes fuller,  more  edified.  
Temporary  Personality  
This   is   what  we   meet   as   the  present   personality   or,   
simply,  our  personality.  It  is  the  projection  of  the  permanent  
personality  into  the  three  worlds  of  separation  and  their  sub-
planes.  It  is  this  aspect  of  the  Self  which  experiences  emo-
57 

tions,  appetites  and  tastes,  of  which  a  character  is  formed.  In  
time  this  personality  learns  to  interpret  the  impressions,  cor-
rect  the  reactions,  so  that  gradually  a  refined  eclecticism  is  
formed.  The  evolution  of this  process  will  relieve  us from  our  
burdens,  raising us  to  finer  levels  of ether. 
Let  us  sum  up,  so  as  to  better  understand  the  concept  of Self-
hood,  in  its  different  expressions.  Our  Selfhood  is  one,  even  
though   we  meet  it  in  four  stages:   Spirit-Ego-Being,   Self-
aware  Soul,  permanent   personality  and   temporary   personal-
ity. 
We  can  imagine  the  pure  Spirit  of humanity  as  a  ray  pro-
jected  from  the  sun  (Absolute  Beingness).  This  ray  passes  
through  the  Idea  of the  Archangelic  Man,  continuing  on  to  the  
Human  Idea.  
Picture  this  ray  now  approaching  a  window.  On  one  side  
of    the  window  we  have  the  Self-aware  Soul.  Passing  through  
the  pane  the  permanent  personality  is  formed,  partly  within  
the  Soul's  home  in  the Eternal  Now,  and  partly  projected  into  
the  worlds  of separation. 
The  ray  continues  beyond  the  window  and hits  the  floor.  
Here  we  have  what  we  have  termed  our  present  personalities.  
The  light from  its  source  is  pure  and  luminous.  Filtered  down  
through  Ideas,  universes,  and  layers  of the  self,  it     remains  the  
same  light,  only  diffused.  The  floor,  where  the  pattern  of the 
Spirit Soul  is  laid,  is what we  should keep  clean  and swept. 
58 

CHAPTER  FIVE  
THE  ARCHANGELIC  ORDERS  
He  shall  give  his  angels  charge  over  thee,  to  keep  thee:  And  in  
•     their  hands  they  shall  bear  thee  up,  lest  at  any  time  thou  dash  
thy foot against a stone.                                             (Luke  4:10,11)  
And  the  Angel  said  unto  them,  Fear  not: for,  behold,  I  bring  you  
good  tidings   of  great  joy,  which  shall  be  to  all people. 
(Luke  2:10)  
The  Archangels  are  Logoic  and  Holy  Spiritual  Beings,  
who  build,  govern  over  and  project  themselves  into  the  uni-
verses.  We  know,  furthermore,  that  humanity,  before  passing  
through  the  Human  Idea,  is  an  Archangel  within  the  Archan-
gelic  Orders.  From  the moment  of passing  through  the  Idea  of  
Archangelic  Man,  a ray  of the  Spirit  is  formed  into  Heavenly  
Man. 
Thus,   as   Holy  Monads,   both  Human  Beings   and   the   
Archangels  as  well  as  every  other  Being,  are  within  Absolute  
Beingness. 
It  would  be  naive  and  rather unrealistic  to  say  that  higher  
scrutiny  results  in  the  realization  that  Absolute  Beingness  is  
the   sum   of   the   Archangels,   whether   they   are   known   as   
Archangels  of  the  elements  or  Logoi,  and  to  believe  that  Its  
Total  Wisdom  is  not  something  beyond  the  sum  of the  natures  
of   Logoi  and  Archangels.  
Nothing  is  unknown  to  Absolute  Beingness,  nor  can  the  
59 

experiences  of  Logoi  and  Archangels  add  anything  to  Total  
Wisdom,   Total   Power   and   Total   Love.   However,   these   
Beings,  emanating  into  the  Eternal  Now,  express  the  Divine  
qualities   of  Holy  Monadic  Beings.  
But  what  is   an  Archangel?   Perhaps   it  is  energy   and   
power  of  a  particular  charge,   which   is   only   apparent   and   
expressed  in  the  worlds  of  opposites?  But  let  us  examine  the  
nature  of  opposites.  Take  the  phenomena  we  call  heat  and  
cold.  There  is,  of  course,   a  central  point  midway  between  
these two  states.  From either  side  of this central point,  the  var-
ious  degrees  of each  state  grow  more  pronounced  (cool,  luke-
warm,  hot,  boiling,  etc.).  The  central  point,  however,  is  the  
useful  one.  Everything  is  defined  and  given  value  in  propor-
tion to  its  distance from  the  centre.  If we  take  electricity  as  an  
example,  we  find  that positive  and  negative,  provided  they  are  
kept  a  safe  distance  apart,  are  as  though  they  did  not  exist  
(latent  forces).  When  the  distance  is  decreased,  however,  to  a  
point  approaching  conjunction,  we  get  a  spark,  lightning  and  
other  phenomena.  So,  even  when  we  think  there  is  nothing,  
there  is  that central point and the  Law   of opposites. 
Does  an  Archangel  possess  Self-awareness?  Certainly,  
but  not  the  Self-awareness  common  to  human  beings.  The  
Archangel  possesses  Total  Wisdom,  and  knows  the  Laws  and  
the  Causes  and  their expression.  It  does  not,  however,  display  
the   phenomenon   of   Self-awareness   in   various   stages   as   
humanity  does.  The  Archangel  has  no  subconscious,  nor  self-
conscious,  nor  super-conscious  Self-awareness.  It  has  Abso-
lute  Self-awareness.  Perhaps  Total  Wisdom  knows  the  nature  
of   Total Wisdom?  Perhaps  light knows  the  nature  of light? 
We  must  understand  that  their  Self-awareness  is  not  the  
same   as   ours,   unless   some   Archangels   pass   through   the   
60 

Human  Idea  for  a  particular  purpose  and  become  'Sons  of  
Man'.  But  even  those,  when  they  have  finished  their  work,  
will  have  no  memory  of  particular  events,  since  the  Archan-
gelic  Idea  was  not  formed  within  Divine  Meditation  in  such  a  
way as  to  receive place-time  impressions.  
Before  their  expression,  Human  Beings  and  Archangels,  
as   Holy Monads,  differ little from each other.  Later, however, 
when  they  return  to  be  within  Absolute  Beingness,  the  differ-
ence  is  great.  The  Archangels  of  the  elements  (of  fire,  of  li-
quids,   of   earth,   of   ether)   do   not   obtain   conscious   Self-
awareness  in  any  of  their  expressions.  This  is  because  they  
had  their  Being  and  were  exposed  to  whatever  experiences  
they   had,   without   being   able   to   make   comparisons.   An   
Archangel  of  fire  uses  this  element  with  total  wisdom,  but  
does  not  know  the  emotions  and  thoughts,  which  are  aroused  
by  the  presence  of  the  element.  These  are  experiences  that  
allow  complete  Beingness  to  human beings. 
So,  we  see  that  the  Archangels  of  the  elements  are  all-
Wise,  without  possessing  human  Self-awareness.  One  is  like  
another;  one lives  within all  and  all live within one. 
This,  however,  does  not  happen  in  the  kingdom  of  life,  
where  humanity  is  concerned.  A  human  being  sinks  very  low  
and  suffers,  as  a  Prodigal  Son.  But  when  he  returns,  he  has  
gained  much  more  than  any  Archangel  could  ever  gain.  The  
Archangel  indeed  possesses  everything,  except  the  capacity  to  
measure  and  compare.  
In   the  parable  of  the  Prodigal  Son  (cf.  Luke  15:11-32),  
the father gives  the  returning  son  a ring.  This  ring  is  a symbol 
for mastery  over time  and  space,  as  a circle  with  no beginning 
nor  end  (eternity).  His  brother  (an  Archangel),  who  never  left  
his father's  side, complains that he  is offered nothing in return 
61 

for  his  obedience.  Yet  the  gift  to  the  Prodigal  Son  is  well  
earned, for he has  toiled long  and hard  in the worlds  of separa-
tion. 
For  anyone  to  determine  the  nature  of  the  Archangels,  
the  angels  or  human  beings  within  Absolute  Beingness,  it  is  
essential  to  acquire  the  capability  of  total  attunement  and  at-
one-ment.  It  is  necessary  to  go  beyond  the  nature  of  human  
Self-awareness,  which  is  focussed   upon  place-time  events,  
and  to  enter  the  reality  of  life,  by  achieving  super-conscious  
Self-awareness, which extends  into the   stages  of ecstasy. 
This   is   essential   in   order   to   be   able,   in   full   Self-
awareness,  to  understand  the  frequencies  of  the  vibrations  of  
the  various  sources  around  and to come into conscious  contact  
with  all  the  Orders  of our Archangelic  brothers.  
St.  Paul,  the  mystic  Apostle,  tells  us:  'I  may  speak  in  
tongues  of men  or  of angels,  but  if    I  am  without  love,  I  am  ....  
a  clanging  cymbal'  (1  Cor.  13:1).  What  does  this  mean  with  
regard  to  language?  That  the  Archangels  communicate  with  
each  other,  but  in  a  language  different  from  our  own;  their  
communication  is  primarily  through the  medium  of love. 
For  humanity,  meaning  is  generally  communicated  by  
sounds.  Among  humans,  problems  of  communications  arise  
because  of the  great  variety  of words,  concepts,  and  languages  
in   the  world.  For  the  Archangels,  however,  words  have  no  
meaning,  as  every  communication  is  emitted  and  absorbed  as  
an    universal  idea-shape.  
The  language  of the  Archangels  covers  a broad  spectrum  
of   colours  and  sounds.  The  sounds  uttered  by  the  Archangels  
bring  about  the  creation  of  the  universes.  They  use  the  super-
substance  of  Mind  in   a  perfect   way   and  produce  creative  
vibrations,  which  shape  and  put  matter  into  place  and  order  
62 

according  to  the  Law.  When  a  human  being  develops  to  the  
point  at  which  he  learns  of these  vibrations,  which  require  no  
material  tongue  for their production,  but  only  that the  heart  be  
attuned  to  them,  then  he  can  produce  the  same  sounds  and  
become   a   master   of   materialization   and   dematerialization   
among  other  abilities.  
There  is  significant  difficulty  when  trying  to  transmit  
impressions  to  fellow  human  beings,  using  the  dull  colours  
available  to  us  on  earth.  Because  of  this,  what  any  human  
being  can  understand  regarding  the  themes  of these  teachings  
depends  entirely  on  the  degree  of  psycho-noetical  develop-
ment  which  that  person  has  obtained,  through  living  experi-
ence,  and not solely  based on theoretical understanding. 
The  extent  to  which  anyone  can  come  to  know  these  
conditions,  as  long  as his  consciousness is confined within  the  
worlds  of  place  and  time,  is  also  a  matter  of  the  degree  of  
development. 
Within  the  Absolute  Super  Self-aware  Self-sufficiency  
of    Absolute  Beingness  are  the  Holy  Monadic  Beings,  Orders  
of     Archangels   with   each   Order   containing   myriad   upon   
myriad  of Beings  of the  same  type.  
We  know  of the  existence  of twelve  Archangelic  Orders:  
of   Thrones,  of Authorities,  of  Dominions,  of Principalities,  of  
Overlords,  Seraphims  along  with  others,  named  and  unnamed.  
No  one  has  ever  spoken  in  detail  of  the  kind  of vibrations  of  
the   Archangels   who  belong  to  the  higher  echelons   of  the  
Orders,  because  few  have  come  close  enough  to  these  Orders  
to  be  attuned to them. 
The  Dominions  or  Overlordships  are,  by  their  nature,  
beyond  any  research  because  they  differ  little  from  Absolute  
Beingness,  from  the  human  point  of  view.  Most  of  us  cannot  
63 

understand    the    vibrations    of   these    Archangels,    perhaps    
because  they  are  more  within  Divine  Self-sufficiency  than  
within  Divine  Will-pleasure.  
Let  us  turn  to  the  subject  of  our  Guardian  Archangel,  
who  is  from  the  Order of the  Thrones,
1
  and  who  accompanies  
us    during  all  our  incarnations.  This  Archangel  is  in  no  way  
different  from  the  Archangels  of  the  Order  of  the  Thrones,  
while  also  in  at-one-ment  with  all  the  Archangels.  In  a  similar  
manner  the  Self-aware  Soul  is  an  expression  of the  Human  as  
Holy  Monad.  What  we  can  say  about this  Archangel  from  the  
Thrones  is  that It    is  always  inside  us,  to  the  extent that  several  
systems  of research  call  It  the  'twin  soul'.  We  do  not resort  to  
any   such  conjectures,  however,  because  we  know  that  the  
Guardian  Archangel  is  not  identical  with  our  Ego-Self.  It  has  
its   own eternal nature  and existence.  It    can, however,  by attun-
ing to our senses, come to resemble  us.  
A  developed  human  being  (a  mystic)  is  in  continuous  
conscious    and    superconscious    communication    with    the    
Archangel  from  the  Thrones,  whose  exultation  in  this  contact  
is  unimaginable,  since  no  other earthly thing can move  it.  
Those  with  whom  we  come  into  most  contact  are  the  
Archangels  of the  elements,  who  use  Mind,  across  the  whole  
spectrum  of vibrations,  to  create  the  universes  and  worlds,  and  
express  the Ideas and forms. 
These  Archangels,  together  with  those from  the  Order of 
the  Thrones,  accompany  each  human  being  during  incarnat-
ion.  There  are  four  Archangelic  Orders  of the  elements,  each  
of   which contains  an  infinite number of Archangels. 
1
   The  Greek  word  is  'MEtaGgoviog'  (Metathronios).  Cf.  'And  I heard the voice  of  
many  angels  round  about the Throne'  (Revelation  5:11).  
64 

These  Archangels  appear  in  all  religions,  Eastern  and  
Western,  and  in  the  majority  of  theosophic  and  esoteric  sys-
tems   as  messiahs,  messengers,  demigods,  devas  and  the  like.  
To  the  Buddhists,  the  Hindus,  the  Aztecs   and  the  ancient  
Egyptians,  the  Archangels  are  known,  varying  in  form  and  
names,  but  the  duties,  responsibilities  and  the  forces  are  uni-
versal  and  identical.  
The Archangels  of the  Elements  
There  is  the  Archangel  of light  and  of fire,  who  is  called  
'Michael'—Ma-Ha-El,   'The  Great  God'.   In   sanskrit  Maha  
means  'great'  and  El  stands  for  God  (as  well  as  in  ancient  
Egyptian  and  Hebrew).  Appropriately  we  find  the  suffix El  in  
all  the  Archangelic  names.  
Then  there  is  the  Archangel  Gabriel,  or  in  the  ancient  
Egyptian   pronunciation,    Kha-Vir-El.    Ga    or   Kha   denotes   
desire,  sentiment,  and  expressed  love.  Bir  or  Vir  indicates  ele-
ment.  Gabriel  is  the  ruler  of water  and  the  liquids,  which  con-
stitutes  three  quarters  of the  planet.  Gabriel  is  the  steward  of  
the  whole  of  the  physical  kingdom.  The  above  two  Archan-
gels  cooperate  within  the  human  body  in  the  creation  of  red  
blood. 
Let  us   next  mention   'Raphael'—Ra-fa-El,   in  ancient  
Eygptian  Ra  stands  for  the  sun,  and  fa,  for  vibration:  Sun-
vibra-tion-God.  Raphael's  vibrations  express  a  violet  colour,  
in   all  its  shades.  This  colour  stems  from  the  mixture  of  red  
(Michael)  and  blue  (Gabriel),  which  tallies  with  the  role  of  
Raphael  as  fellow-worker with  the  other two.  The  planet  in  its  
entirety  is  within  Raphael's  domain,  who  controls  the  electro-
magnetic  forces—etheric  vitality,  as  we  call  it.  The  Hindus  
call  this  force  'prana',  while  others  give  it     different names. 
65 

Another  Archangel,  who  is  the  co-ordinator of the  work  
of     all   the   Archangels   within   the   gross   material   body,   is   
'Uriel'—U-Ra-El,  as  known  to  our  Eygptian  forefathers.  U  
stands for space and  Ra  for the  sun:  Space-Sun-God.  The col-
our  which  represents  It  is  silvery-white.  Uriel  holds  the  Law  
of   Order  and  Harmony.  
These  Archangels,  apart  from  meeting  in  full  creative  
action  in  the  material  body,  work  at  the  same  time  in  the  psy-
chic   and   noetical   bodies,   developing   and   harmonizing   the   
bodies. 
In   the  material  body  there  is  another  angel,  the  ruler  of  
the  element  of earth:  Sham-A-El:  Sham,  meaning  the  light;  A,  
feminity  or matter;  and  God  or  El.  The  production  of the  phe-
nomenon  of  life  in  those  kingdoms  is  the  work  of  all  the  
Archangels  of the  elements,  but  particularly  of the  angel  Sha-
mael. 
Encountering  the  Archangels  beyond  the  noetic  (mental)  
state,  they  are  relatively  undifferentiated  in  their  expressions.  
In   the  lower  worlds,  however,  they  appear  as  separate  expres-
sions,  without  losing  their  continuous  contact,  attunement  and  
co-operation.   A  shining  example  of  this   attunement  is   the   
work  which  is  carried  on  in  the  human  body,  in  which  all  the  
Archangels  take part. 
The  Archangels,  moreover,  keep  the  planets  in  balance  
in   space  and  control  their  relationship  with  their  parent  the  
Sun,  which  is  their  headquarters—as  far  as  we  earthlings  are  
concerned. 
The  total  and  absolute  cooperation  between  the  Archan-
gelic Orders provide  the ambrosic conditions  of life,  which  we  
witness  on  this  planet  of ours. 
Furthermore,  the  forms  which  make  up  the  phenomenon  
66 

of    life  on  this  planet  within  the  animal  and  vegetable  king-
doms,  from  the  humblest  amoeba  and  the  lowly  moss  to  the  
elephant  and  the  giant redwoods,  are countless. 
The  various  forms  of plants  and  animals  do  not  possess  
an    eternal  self-aware  nature,  but  are  breaths  of  life,  whose  
experiences  are  transferred  directly  to  the  Archangel  which  
represents  them.  However,  the  way  in  which  this  work  is  per-
formed  is  not  allowed  to  be  revealed  either  by  a  mystic  or  by  
the  Archangels  themselves.  
In   conclusion,  let  us  separate  the  Archangelic  Orders,  
which  are  systems,  from  Humanity,  which  is  a  race.  Human  
beings,  millions  of human  beings  making  up  the  human  race,  
are never exactly  alike  in  their present personalities. 
A  mystic,  who  has  reached  a very  high  degree  is  permit-
ted  to  identify  with  the  Archangel  of these  forms  and  to  learn  
whatever is   relevant to him. 
If,     however,  he  were  to  ask  the  Archangel:   'You,  as  
director—just  as  I  am  director,  as  an  ego,  of my  various  bod-
ies  and  can  see  one  or the  other expression  of Absolute  Being-
ness—tell  me,  what  exactly  is  your  position  and  duty?'  He  
would  probably  find  that  the  Archangel  could  not  understand  
What  he  was  being  asked,  since  the  language  used  is  of place 
and  time  human  construction  and  does  not  correspond  with  
tile  Divine Nature  and Will. 
67 

CHAPTER  SIX  
MIND  AND ETHERIC  VITALITY  
Give  us  this  day  our daily  bread...            (Matthew  6:11)  
The  'bread'  which  Jesus  spoke  of in  the  Lord's  Prayer  is  
Mind.  That is   to  say  it    is   the etheric vitality, which is    a state of 
Mind,  given  to  each  of  us  freely,  equally,  day  and  night,  at  
every  stage  of our development. 
It   is  essential  at  this  point  in  our  study  to examine  Mind.  
Mind  will  be  considered  with  every  other  subject  since  all  
things   owe   their   existence   to   Mind,    while   owing   their   
expression to God's Divine Will. 
Mind  extends  everywhere  throughout  infinity.  Have  you  
ever thought,  though,  what infinity  is?  What is  space  and what 
are  the  links between  space  and infinity? 
Infinity   is   one   of  the   States   of  Absolute   Beingness.   
There  is  no  part  of Absolute  Beingness,  which  is  not  both  in  
space  and  infinity.  Nor  is  there  any  part  of  infinity,  or  of  the  
concept  of  space,  in  which  God-Absolute  Beingness  is  not  
present. 
Absolute  Beingness  is  total  Self-sufficiency  with  Multi-
plicity  as  an  aspect  of  Its  Nature  whose  Will  it  is  to  express  
the Holy Monads  in  Creation.  
Similarly  each  Holy  Monad  is  both  Self-sufficient  and  
multiple.  The  Holy  Monads,  in  order  to  express  Themselves  
69 

in   the  worlds,  must  themselves  have  the  characteristics  of  
Absolute  Beingness.   Among  those  characteristics  the  more  
easily  comprehensible  are  Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  
Total  Love.  
These  three  states,  are  and  exist.  That  is  to  say  we  meet  
them  both  as  states  and  as  expressions—states  within  Divine  
Self-sufficiency    and    in    expression    within    Divine    Will-
pleasure. 
However,  there  is  a further  aspect  which  is  necessary  for  
Divine   Will-pleasure   to   find   expression.   That   is   the   holy   
Mind. 
Everything  is  Mind.  Everything  has  been  built  of  Mind,  
in    differing   degrees    and   frequencies    of   vibration.    The    
universes  are  creations,  within  which  the  radiation  of the  Holy  
Monads  expands,  in  the  form  of humanity,  Archangels  and  all  
such  expressions   of  Beingness.   Only   in   this   way   can   the   
universes  be  filled  with  the  Glory  of Absolute  Beingness.  The  
Church referred  to  this  centuries  ago,  in  the hymn,  which  says  
'Heaven  and  Earth  are  full  of Thy  glory...'  (Liturgical  Hymn).  
Is   Mind,  then,  born  of Total  Wisdom?  Or  is,  perhaps,  its  
source  of origin  in  Total  Power  or  Total  Love?  We  would  say  
that  the  source  of  Mind  is  the  Will-pleasure,  which  glorifies  
all  three  states.  
Mind  as  an  emanation  is  eternally  used,  though  not  an  
immortal  part  of Absolute  Beingness  as  are  the  Holy  Monads.  
Let  us  not  confuse  Mind,  then,  even  in  its  state  of  super-
substance   with   the   Holy   Spirit,   because   Mind   is   not   the   
Beingness. 
Mind,   which   is   movement,   oscillation   and   vibration   
within  Absolute  Beingness,  yet unexpressed,  also  came  out  of  
70 

the  One  Expressed  God  and  is  Divine  Supersubstance,  from  
which  all  things  are created.  But beware!  Mind  is  only  of God, 
it   is  not  God.  However,  the  gross  material  world  and  all  the  
universes  are  constructed  of Mind,  at  differing  frequencies  of  
vibration. 
Consequently,  within  infinity  and  space  we  have,  on  the  
one  hand,  Absolute   Beingness,  in  the  fullness  of  Its  Self-
sufficiency  and  Multiplicity,  as  Builder,  Parent,  Creator,  and  
on  the  other hand,  Mind,  the  universes  and  Creation  as  space-
place-time  expressions  of  Divine  Wisdom,  Divine  Power  and  
Divine  Love.  We  must  bear this  carefully  in  mind,  so  that  we  
do not worship nature,  but the  Creator.  
Many   philosophical   systems,   in   this   matter,   present   
Mind   as   the   Holy   Spirit.   Where   is   the   mistake   in   this   
deification  of  Mind?  We  would  reply  that  it  lies  in  the  fact  
that  different  mystics  have  not  dared  to  see  themselves  as  
without form.  They  succeeded  in  taming  their material  bodies,  
their  emotions,   their  desires   and   their  feelings   in   general.   
They  placed  all  their  sensations  and  their  senses  under  the  
strictest  control.  They  became  masters  of  thought  and  of  the  
imagination   and   created   paradises   filled   with   light.   They   
achieved,  finally,  ecstasy  in  the  highest  degree.  They  entered,  
that  is,  into  a  state  of enlightened  munificence.  However,  that  
is   where  they  stayed...  they  did  not  dare  to  enter  Divine  Self-
sufficiency,  suspend their form,  and taste Theosis. 
They   thought   that   if  they   fell   into   this   nirvana   and   
entered  into   Absolute   Beingness,   they  would   experience   a   
nothing-ness.  This  is  the  great  mistake.  Nirvana,  or Theosis,  is  
not  nothing-ness,  but  everything-ness.  These  mystics  are  like  
a   man   who   looks   at   himself  in   a  mirror   and   feels   great   
satisfaction  when he  sees his  likeness  smile  back at  him.  He  is  
71 

afraid  to  smash  the  mirror,  because  he  thinks  that  he  will  hurt  
not  only  the  image,  but  himself  too.  He  does  not  have  the  
courage   to   believe   that   he   runs   no   danger   whatever   in   
smashing  the  mirror.  He  is  afraid  to  set  free  his  true  Self,  
which  is   the   undoubted  reality,   from  the   image,   which  is  
nothing  but an  illusion.  
The  Researcher  of  Truth  will  eventually  realise,  when  
his  development  is  complete,  that  Theosis  is  not  annihilation  
in   Absolute  Beingness.  The  Innermost  Self  of  humanity,  the  
Holy  Monad,  is  one  with Absolute Beingness,  in total content-
ment,  yet  It  can  extend  Itself  with  full  power  whenever  and  
wherever  It  wishes.  It  never  loses  Its  experience,  Its  I-ness,  
nor  Its  Will,  and  will  always  have  at  Its  disposal  the  super-
substance  of Mind. 
Mind  is  the  ocean  in  which  everything  is  formed  and  
lives.  When,  however,  we  say  that  everything  is  Mind,  we  do  
not  include  Absolute  Beingness.  Absolute  Beingness,  the  in-
comprehensible  God,  is  Self-sufficient  within  Its  own  Self.  
Only  It  knows  the  purpose  and  delight  It  has  to  create  Mind,  
as    the primal fire,  the  light that never  sets,  the  ether.  
Within   Mind,   whether   we   call   it   supersubstance   or   
supermatter,   the   primal   fire,   the   unremitting   light,   or  the  
timeless  present,  are  the  Laws,  Principles  and  Idea-Causes,  of  
the  Divine  Meditation.  Within  the  Ideas,  the  Holy  Monads  are  
expressed,  to  honour  Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  Total  
Love.  Archangelic  and  human  cognition  can  only  understand  
a  limited  number of these  Ideas.  And  within  the  states  of Idea-
Causes,   there   are   truths   which   neither   humanity   nor   the   
Archangels  can  grasp.  Each  kingdom  of  the  phenomenon  of  
life  has  its  own  boundaries.  No  one  can  ever  fully  grasp  the  
majesty  of Absolute  Beingness.  
72 

We  can  say  of  Mind  that  it     is  a  necessary  expression  of  
Divine   Meditation.   We  find   it   in  different  frequencies   of   
vibration  from  Mind,  solidified  into  gross  matter  up  to  the  
ethereal  substances  (and  still finer states). 
It   is  through  Mind  that  Absolute  Beingness  expresses  
Itself,  Logoically  and  Holy  Spiritually.  
We  ourselves  are  endowed  with  the  authority  to  express  
Mind.  The  Holy  Monad,  both  while  within  Absolute  Being-
ness  as  well  as  in  the  course  of  projecting  a  part  of  Itself  
through   the   Human   Idea,   as   the   Self-aware   Soul,   and,   
thereafter  when  It  takes  on  form,  constantly  and  incessantly  
makes  use  of Mind, for better or worse. 
As   Mind  takes   form,   in   the   shape   of  superlight   and   
primal  fire,  which  we  may  call  cosmic  ether  or  radiation,  a  
vibration  begins.   We   see,  however,   the  vibrational   Causes   
within  Absolute  Beingness,  but  without  any  thing  vibrating.  
Now,   we  have   vibration   when   the   universes   and   the   
worlds  are  realized.  Of these  worlds,  humanity  can  only  come  
to   understand  the  gross  material,  the  psychic,  the  noetical  and  
the  noetic.  The  noetic  is  a  state,  and  resides  above  the  lower  
three  worlds  of  separation,  as   a  world  of  states  and  unex-
pressed forms.  It is    a world  of Ideas  and  not  yet the expression 
of   the  Ideas.  
The  noetic  and higher states,  we  can  study, not as earthly 
human   beings,   but   as   Self-aware   Souls,   and   not   through   
acquiring  common  knowledge,  but through  attunement  and  at-
one-ment. 
Now  we  begin  to  sense  what  Mind  is.  However,  what  
particular qualities  does  Mind  have?  Is  it     merely  a  medium  or  
is   it    endowed  with  a type  of consciousness? 
73 

Even  though  Mind  is  a  Divine  emanation,  to  serve  a  
particular   end,   which   in   our   case   is   the   creation   of  the  
universes,   this   medium   must   have   some   form   of   holy   
consciousness.   This   consciousness   consists   of   the   Divine   
Principles  (e.g.,  Love,  Goodness,  Order)  and  the  Laws  (e.g.,  
Cause  and Effect,  Harmony,  etc),  which  have  created  Mind  as  
the  indispensable element for the  building of the  universes.  
It   is  super-intelligent  consciousness  without  Beingness  
and  without  personality.   Something  similar  happens  in  our  
material    bodies.    Our    skin,    for    example,    has    its    own    
consciousness.  At  the  approach  of  an  insect,  it  reacts,  before  
the  brain has  taken  cognizance  of the  situation.  But  we  cannot  
say  that  the  skin  is  a  human  being.  In  the  same  way,  we  
cannot identify  Mind,  even  if it   displays  consciousness,  as  the  
Holy  Spirit.  The  Holy  Spirit,  which is  God  in  expression,  uses  
Mind  to  build the  universes.  
Let   us try to envisage  what Mind is  in the noetic  state.  It  
is     something    beyond    supersubstance,    something    incom-
prehensible  to  human  understanding.  It  is  the  shining  mantle  
of     Absolute   Beingness   Itself;    the   means   by   which   the   
perfected   world   of   Ideas   is   constructed;   the   crystal-clear   
mirror,  in  which  Absolute  Beingness  Itself can  discern Its  own  
reflection. 
However,  as  we  have  emphasized,  neither  Mind,  nor  the  
worlds   containing   the   phenomenon   of   life   are   anything   
essential  to  Absolute  Beingness,  which,  within  Itself,  is  Self-
sufficient  beyond  any  expression.  If It     expresses  a  portion  of  
Itself—the  Super-consciousness  which  we  call  Spirit-Souls,  
and  the  Archangels  themselves—this  does  not  come  about  of  
necessity.  Only  Absolute  Beingness  knows  exactly  why!  
We  must  believe  that  God-Absolute  Beingness  has  no  
74 

need   of  the  worlds   and  universes.   God   is   Absolute,   Self-
sufficient  and  complete   and  expresses   Itself  into  substance  
and  supersubstance  in  order to  build  Causal universes,  accord-
ing  to  Its most Divine Will-pleasure. 
Within  these  universes,  the  Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  
will  become  the  Caretakers  of  Its  Divine  Will,  creating  the  
worlds, which we as  Spirits,  the  Archangels, the  angels  and  all  
other  manifestations  receive  as  perfect.  Also  bestowed  on  us  
is   the  authority  to  use  Mind,  in  all  its  states,  in  order  to  play  
out  our own cherishable  roles  within Creation. 
Let  us  now  examine  that  part  of  Mind  which  is  more  or  
less  invisible,  which  can  solidify  into  material  substance  or  
can  be  transformed  into  psycho-noetical  substance.  This  is  
usually known  as the etheric  double  of the  human  body.  Many  
people  deny  its  existence.  Nevertheless,  a  study  of the  subject  
in   conjunction  with  the  appropriate  exercises,  can  persuade  us  
not  only   of  its  existence,  but  of  its   holy   quality.   This   is,   
indeed,  the  first  pointer  to  our  recognition  of  the  work  of  the  
Holy  Spirit  in  the  Divine  control  of  the  gross  material  body  
and  that,  later,  we  may  co-create,  within  the  material  body,  
together with the Holy  Spirit.  
Inside  our material  body,  there  is vital  energy,  which  we  
call  the  etheric  vitality,  which  serves  within  our  ego  person-
ality  as  the  raw  material  of creation. 
In   practical  terms,  we  draw  this  energy  in  large  quantity  
from  the  Sun.  Some  comes  from  the  Infinite  as  vibrational  
radiation,  and  quite  a  bit from  our  food.  In  general,  however,  
this energy  is Mind, either in a diffused or a focussed form. 
Each  molecule,  each  cell  of  our  gross  material  body  is  
alive  and  is  maintained  by  an  etheric  double.  And  it  is  the  
energy  in  this etheric  double  which provides  the power for  the  
75 

five  senses  to  function,  so  that  we  may  receive  and  record  
impressions.   The   etheric   double   regulates   the   autonomic   
functions  within  us,  which  include  the  operation  of the  heart,  
the   circulation   of   the   blood    and   other   fluids,   and   the   
coordination   of  the   many   other   activities   essential   to   the   
continued  expression  of the  phenomenon  of life. 
With   appropriate   training,   we   can   project   and   direct   
etheric  vitality  from  the etheric doubles  of the  bodies  and  send  
it   over  vast  distances,  and  perform  so-called   miracles.  To  do  
this   we   can   take   a  part   of  the   Mind-substance   of  etheric  
vitality,  give  it    form  and  project  it     as  a  mental  image,  outside  
both  our gross  material  body  and  our etheric  double.  
This  happens  consciously  when  we  form  what  we  call  
'thought-desires',  but  unconsciously  when  we  form  'desire-
thoughts'.  Jesus  Christ called  the  latter  'deaf and dumb  spirits'  
(Mark  9:25).  These  two  types  of thought  forms,  because  they  
are both living forms,  we  call  'elementals'*.  
Etheric  vitality  is  the  'Bread'  which  comes  to  us  from  
Heaven.  It  is  the  means  by  which  we  build,  when  rendered  
into  elementals,  the  present  day  personality.   It  is  also  the  
means   of   cleansing   and   purifying   the   character,    which    
ultimately  serves  to  assimilate  our  personality  into  the  Inner  
Self—our Self-aware  Soul.  
We   shall   learn   to   understand   more   about   Mind   and   
elementals  in  the  following  chapters,  because,  as  we  have  
explained,  it     is  holy  supersubstance  from  which  all  things  are  
made.  It  is,  indeed,  self-evident  that  in  conjunction  with  any  
other subject,  we  shall  also be dealing  with Mind. 
76 

CHAPTER  SEVEN  
CREATION 
For  by  him  were  all  things  created,  that  are  in  heaven,  and  that  
are  in  earth,  visible  and  invisible,  whether  they  be  thrones,  or  
dominions,  or  principalities,  or  powers  all  things  were  created  
by  him,  and for  him  and  he  is  before  all  things,  and  by  him  all  
things consist.                                                                   (Col.  1:16)  
And  God  said,   Let  there  be  light:  and  there  was  light.  
(Gen.  1:3)  
In   reality  nothing  became.  Everything  is!  Quite  simply,  
with   the   'said',   light   was   expressed   from   the   world   of   
Beingness  into  the  world  of  existence.  This  is  an  example  of  
something  that  is  expressed,  and  not  created;  something  that  
was  already  in  the  world  of Beingness.  Nothing  is  created  for  
the  first  time.  Everything  is.  We  must at  this  point explain  the  
distinction   of  the   world   of  Beingness   from   the   world   of   
existence. 
Absolute  Overlordship   is   a  characteristic   of  Absolute  
Beingness,  which is  expressed in  lesser degrees  in  other forms 
of   life.  Because  of Its  Overlordship,  it     is  the  Will  of Absolute 
Beingness  to  express  Itself as  Creation.  There  is  Overlordship  
as    a  state  of Being,  as  the  nature  of the  Christ  Logos  ('and  in  
one  Lord Jesus  Christ'—Nicene  Creed)  and  the  Holy  Spirit  in  
Its  Super-consciousness  ('the  Holy  Ghost;  the  Lord  and  Giver  
77 

of   Life'—ibidem)  and  this  includes  within  it  all  the  Archan-
gelic  Orders.  
God  as  a  state  of Beingness  is  Life,  while  in  the  state  of  
existence  It  is  the  expression  of  life.  Something  that  exists  
originates from  somewhere  and the  phenomenon of  life  in  the  
worlds  of  existence  begins  with  the  expression  of  the  Will-
pleasure  of Absolute  Beingness.  
We  have,  then,   the   world   of  Absolute   Beingness,   in   
which  everything  that  ever  was,  is,  or  will  be  already  is,  as  a  
Divine  Meditation.  All  types  of  expression  exist  and,  accord-
ing  to  the  type  of  expression  concerned,  they  each  take  their  
turn,  so to  speak,  so that  a succession of states  is created.  Thus  
we  have  the  advent  of time  and  place,  in  spite  of there  being  
no  conditions  of time  or place  within  Absolute  Beingness.  Let  
us    take  ourselves  as  an  example.  We  are,  first  of  all,  a  Holy  
Monad,  which  has  not  yet  expressed  itself  in  the  worlds  of  
form.  We  are  Life,  beyond time  and  place,  but  we have  as  yet  
no  existence  before  our emanation.  Existence  begins  from  the  
instant  a  ray  of  the  Holy  Monad  passes  through  the  Human  
Idea.  From that instant we exist as  a Self-aware  Soul.  
In   the  worlds  of  existence,  the  worlds  of  change,  the  
worlds  of time  and  place,  the  immortal  Self-aware  Soul  plays  
the  greatest  role.   We  must  not  think  that,   since  the   Holy   
Monad  has  entered  the  space-place-time  worlds  it  ceases,  for  
that  reason,  to  be,   as  immortal  substance   and  blessed  and  
unending  life.  Nothing  changes.  It  would  be  more  accurate  to  
say   that  the  Holy   Monad  expresses   a  part   of  Itself  in  the  
worlds  of  existence.  Which  part  of  Itself,  though?  We  would  
say only  a small  part,  a single ray from the  Spirit-Self.  
Something  similar  happens   with   all  other  forms.   The   
worlds  of  existence  include  the  noetical,  psychic  and  gross  
78 

material   worlds.   In   the   case   of  forms   other   than   that   of   
humanity, their creation  is  an expression  of a Being  such  as  an  
Archangel.   Thus   all   the   other  forms   of  living   things,   of   
planets,  of  all  other  things,  indeed  every  other  created  thing,  
are  projections   (as  elementals)   of  the  hosts   of  angels   and   
Archangels,  who  are  always ready  to be  of service  in this way. 
We  are  each  a  Holy  Monadic  Being,  without  name  or  
limit,  outside  any  concept  of  place  and  time.  We  are  within  
the  all-encompassing  presence  and  Total  Power  of  Absolute  
Beingness.  We  have  not  been  separated  from  It.  There  can  be  
waves  on  the  surface  of  the  sea  and  waves  can  be  created  
which   differ   from   one   another,   but   all   are   of   the   same   
substance.  It  does  not  mean,  because  we  are  Holy  Monads,  
that  we  are something  apart from Absolute Beingness. 
We  must  not,  therefore,  undervalue  any  single  thing  in  
the  worlds  of  existence.  Every  form  of  life's  phenomenon  
presents  a  miraculous  example  of  Divine  Expression,  of Total 
Power,  Total  Wisdom  and  Total  Love.  We  must  never  call  
any  fellow  human  being  an  enemy,  purely  and  simply  be-
cause,  in  the  muddy  worlds  of  space,  place  and  time,  our own 
interests  appear  to  clash  with  his  interests.  These  interests  are  
in   the  world  of  existence  and  have  no  ultimate  reality.  They  
are emotionally derived  and only  relatively  real.  
The  relative  reality  is  subject  to  constant  change.  Take  
some  existing  thing  and  develop  it     in  the  worlds  of existence. 
Somewhere  it  must  end.  It  anticipates  somewhere,  and  some-
time,   some   finality.   Such   conditions   are   perishable   and   
changeable.   We  cannot  see  our Holy  Monad  as different from 
the   Holy   Monad   of  someone   else.   We   cannot   divide   the   
indivisible.  Absolute  Beingness  is  everywhere  present  in  full  
Power.  We  must  disentangle  ourselves,  as  humanity,  from  the  
79 

attraction   of  conditions   which   are   insubstantial,   and   align   
ourselves  to  the  Divine.  Nevertheless,  these  insubstantial  con-
ditions   are   indispensable  and  we  must  pass  through  them,  
since  were  it  not  so,  Absolute  Beingness  would  not  allow  
them to be part of Its  Divine Plan. 
Thus   these   conditions   should  not  be  over  nor  under-
valued  by  us.  They  should  be  investigated  rationally,  to  see  
for  what  purpose  Absolute  Beingness,  and  our  Divine  Self  
within  Absolute  Beingness,  have  decided  upon  these  types  of  
expression  within the  worlds  of the phenomenon  of life. 
What  are  we,  now,  as  humanity?  Are  we  only  a  name,  
George   or   Mary,   with   vacillating   desires,   thoughts   and   
ambitions,  in  the  world  of  the  pleasant  and  the  unpleasant?  
No!  We  are  something  much,  much  more.  We  are  eternal  
Self-conscious    and    Self-aware    Beings    expressing    Mind,    
reason  and  love.  We  are  the  Researchers  who  have  at  our  
disposal    an    inexhaustible   workshop    of   possibilities    and    
probabilities   and   from   which   we   are   invited,   with   free   
judgement,  to  draw   to ourselves knowledge  and wisdom. 
For   this   purpose   we   must   make   a   full   and   minute   
examination   of   ourselves.   Let   us   divide   conditions   into   
pleasant  and  unpleasant,  into  those  which  give  us  relative joy 
and  those  which  give  us  pain  and  disillusion.  Let  us  then  dis-
tinguish  which  results  from  such  conditions  are  really  useful  
to  ourselves.  At this point,  we must take  great  care in what we 
accept  and  what  we  reject.  The  exercise  has  to  take  place  in  
the  worlds  of opposites.  Consciousness  fully  embedded  in  the  
material  world  generates  conditions  which  clothe  matter  in  an  
attractive garb  and distract us from Reality. 
The  same thing happens  in the psychic world. Wonderful 
conditions    give   us    the   feeling    of   paradise.    Unpleasant    
80 

conditions,  which  are  the  result  of  our  own  actions,  desires  
and  ambitions,  give  us  the  feeling  of hell.  Neither  the  one  nor  
the  other condition  is  eternal for humanity.  However,  in  so far 
as    they  are  conditions  which  arise  from  causes,  each  of  the  
hells   and   heavens   is   eternal   (as   etched   sn   the   cosmic   
consciousness),  because  they  are  under  the  Law  of Cause  and  
Effect.   As  humanity  we  are  bound  only  by  the  need  to  reach  
certain  understandings,  learn  the  lessons  and  fully  develop  all  
aspects   of  our  Selfhood.   A  human  being,   as   a  permanent  
personality,  creates  its  own  lower  self,  which  has  complete  
freedom  to   act  on   its  other  expressions,  to  be  pleased  or  
displeased by  the different conditions  and to know them.  Only  
when the  self is   purged of ignorance,  will  it    feel  entirely free. 
'And  ye  shall  know  the  Truth  and  the  Truth  shall  make  
you free'  (John 8:32),  says the Most Beloved Christ Logos.  Of  
course,  anyone  can  make  the  point  that  there  are  individuals,  
who  in  spite  of  living  in  ignorance,  feel  themselves  to  be  
happy.   But   that   is   not   true.   Such   beings   are   inwardly   
dissatisfied because  they  know  that  these  things  which  delight  
them   are   only   temporary.   Continually   satiating   desire   for   
temporal   things   leads   to   greater   and   greater   appetite   for   
material  objects.  
Within  Creation,  however,  there  is   a  precise  and  just  
Law,  which  always  gives  what  needs  to  be  given.  When  we  
exceed  the  limits  of what  is  permitted  in  the  infraction  of this 
Law   of   Divine   Harmony,   we   will   incur   correspondingly   
disturbing  results  in  our  gross  material  bodies,  appearing  as  
illness, just  as  we  will  in  our  psychic  and  noetical  bodies,  in  
the form of psychic  pain.  
We   must,   therefore,   study   the   Divine   Laws   which   
govern  the  different  worlds  (material,  psychic  and  noetical),  
81 

so    that we  may  know  the  universal  truths,  which  will  guide  us  
towards  Truth.  
'And  God  said,  Let  there  be  light;  and  there  was  light'  
(Genesis   1:3).  What  light  is  referred  to?  And  why  does  the  
Highest   express   light   in   the   worlds   of   time   and   space?   
Because,  without  it,  how  could  the  Souls  in  Self-awareness,  
when  they  were  expressed  as  what  we  call  personalities,  and  
who came endowed  with  the  ability to think,  feel  and cogitate, 
pull  themselves  away  from  gross  matter  and escape  the  strong  
attractions  of Circe,  in  order  to  follow  the  path  of their  return,  
as    incorruptible  Beings?  
Matter  is  as  Circe,  turning  men  into  pigs.  When  man  
tames  her  and  becomes  her  master,  she  turns  into  a  goddess,  
who  serves  and  assists  in  his  development.  The  basic  purpose  
of   Creation  is  to  serve  the  Holy  Monad  and  not  our temporary 
self,  which is no more than  a shadow. 
Furthermore,   humanity   having   mastered   the   material   
world  has  all  the  necessary  equipment to  enter into  the  'joy  of  
our  Lord'  (cf.  Neh.  8:10).  We  can  now  express  ourselves  in  
the  space-place-time  worlds  of  gross  material,  psychic   and   
noetical  matter,  as  a  small  Logos.  This  cannot  occur  until  the  
Holy  Monadic  projection  has  learnt  its  lessons  in  the  space-
place-time worlds.  'He  that is  faithful  in that which  is  least,  is  
faithful   also   in  much,'   says   the   Most  Holy  Logos   (Luke   
16:10). 
Thus  the  aim  of  our  existence  is  not  to  hoard  temporary  
things,  which  seem  to  us  such  desperate  necessities  in  our  
present  lives  (as  comfort,  wealth  and  entertainment),  but  the  
cultivation  of the  continuing  and  the  permanent.  It  is  Life  that  
is   to be  gained and not the phenomena of life. 
Human  beings  should  meditate  continuously  upon  these  
82 

premises   and  should  ask  for  Divine  illumination,   so  as  to  
establish  themselves  eventually  as  partners  of  the  One  Truth,  
with  its  infinite beauty  and endless continuity. 
Christ offers us this most profound advice  (Matt.6:19-
21): 
Lay    not    up   for    yourselves    treasures     upon     earth,     
where   moth   and   rust  doth   corrupt,   and  where   thieves   
break   through    and   steal:    But   lay    up  for   yourselves   
treasures    in    heaven,    where    neither    moth    nor    rust    
doth   corrupt,   and  where   thieves  do   not  break   through   
nor  steal:   For  where  your   treasure   is,   there   will  your  
heart   be   also.   
83 

CHAPTER  EIGHT  
SPACE-PLACE-TIME 
In  my  Father's  house  are  many  mansions:   if it  were  not  
so,  1  would  have   told  you.  I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for  
you.                                                                        (John  14:2)  
To  study  the  subject  of space  and  time  we  must enter,  as  
far as  is  possible,  into the  Nature  of Absolute  Beingness. Life, 
as    we  have  said,    is  the  Nature  of  Absolute  Beingness  and  
becomes  perceptible  in  the  first  place  as  movement,  waves,  
vibration,  without  however  anything  being  in  motion.  This  is  
the  State  of Divine  Self-sufficiency.  It  is  followed  by  Divine  
Will-pleasure—movement,  trembling,  vibration,  but  now  with  
something  that  is  actually  moving.  
Movement    is    the    new    element    from    which    the    
expression  of Absolute  Beingness  begins  within  Itself  and  we  
then  have  Absolute  Beingness  as  the  Universal  Logos  for  the  
creation   of   the   universes.    At   the   same   time,   Absolute   
Beingness expresses  Itself dynamically  too,  as  the  Holy  Spirit.  
It    is   thus   understandable   that   in   order   to   have   this   
expression,   there   must  first   be   the   creation   of  movement,  
which  is  Mind.  Thus  the  essential  factor for  the  expression  of  
Divine  Will-pleasure  is  the vibration of Mind. 
From   this   moment,   Mind   supersubstance,   which   was   
hitherto   part   of   the   Divine   Meditation,   becomes   etheric   
vitality   and   the   bearer   of   life.   If   we   think   of   Absolute   
Beingness,   for   a   moment,   in   the   shape   of  a   man,   Mind   
85 

supersubstance  is  used  by  Absolute  Beingness'   two  hands,  
which  are  the  Christ  Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit.  This  dual  
expression,   then,   is   essential  for  completion  of  the   'Great   
Work'.  What  is  the  Great  Work?  It  is  for  Absolute  Beingness  
to   express  Its  Absolute  Divine  Meditation,  within  a  compre-
hensible  condition  of time  and place. 
Somehow  time  began...    In  order  for  time  to  begin,  we  
must  first  postulate  the  concept  of  space.  What  is  space?  No  
one  can  comprehend  this,  unless  he  equates  space  with  place.  
Space  is  one  of  the  Natures  of  Absolute  Beingness  and,  as  
such,  is  beyond  humanity's  comprehension.  Does  space  exist  
as    a  concept?  Certainly,  not  only  does  it  exist  but  it  is.  But  
what  it  is,  no  intelligence,  be  it  human  or  Archangelic,  can  
understand.  The  Christ  Logos  Itself  understands  and  knows  
this  Nature.  So  there  is  no  intelligence  or  super-intelligence,  
apart  from  the  Triadic  Nature  of  Absolute  Beingness,  that  
knows fully  what space is. 
Nevertheless,  the  concept  of  space-place  can  be  grasped.  
How?  Within  incomprehensible  space  there  now  begins  some  
movement  of Mind,  which  will,  in  turn,  give  us  the  universes.  
First  there  are  the  universes  of  the  causal  and  noetic  states,  
after  that  of the noetical  and psychic  worlds,  and finally  of the 
gross  material  world.  
We  move  forward  now,  to  the  concept  of  'existence',  in  
its    complete  state,  however,  before  the  expression  of any  kind  
of    consciousness  or  activity.  We  are  not  yet  in  the  worlds  of  
separation.  We  are  still  in  a  state  before  separation,  because  it  
is   from  here  that  we  must  set  out,  from  the  State  of Absolute 
Beingness  which  we  call  the  Eternal  Now.  Absolute  Being-
ness  is  the  source  of all,  within  Its  Divine  Meditation,  within  
that which  we  call  the  Eternal Now  or the  Eternal Present. 
86 

From  the  revelation  of  Absolute  Beingness'  expression  
the  worlds  of  'existence'  take  shape.  The  conditions  of  place  
and   of   time   are   created.   We   leave   the   Absoluteness   of   
Beingness  and  enter place-time. 
We  see,  within  what  we  understand  as  space,  the  mental  
universes,   which   house   the   Principles,   Laws,   Causes   and   
Ideas  which  give  rise  to  the  forms  of  the  noetic  state.  The  
concept,  then,  of  time  takes  shape  within  the  Eternal  Present.  
Without  the  Eternal  Present,  it  is  not  possible  for  the  concept  
of   time  to  exist.  
Let  us  take  a  portion  of  the  space  within  the  universe  
where  myriad  upon  myriad  of  galaxies  are  in  motion.   We   
encircle  this  space  with  a  boundary  and  assign  it  a  definite  
size,  since  we  know  that  light  takes  thousands  of  years  to  
cross  our  galaxy.  If we  think,  now,  that  the  Sun's  light  takes  
13  minutes  to  reach  the  Earth,  we  can  easily  understand  the  
enormity  of the  Milky Way,  within which  there  are myriads  of  
other  solar  systems  in  motion.  And  there  are  myriads  of  such  
galaxies...   Does   that   not   illustrate   the   vastness   of  space?  
Certainly  it  does!  In  spite  of  that,  even  this  extreme  concept  
falls  wholly  short of what  space  is  all  about.  
Every  thing  is  in  motion.  Within  the  space  we  know  of  
we  see  movement,  waves  and  vibration.  Within  space,  all  is  
ruled  by  motion,  which  is  the  characteristic  of  life.  We  thus  
reach  an  understanding  of  space  by  means  of motion  and  the  
phenomenon  of  life,  so  that  by  the  same  means  we  have  the  
capacity  to  distinguish  the  concepts  of  space  as  place,  and  of  
time  as  development within  space.  
However,   this   understanding   cannot   take   us   to   the   
'beginning   of  things',   that   is   to   say   to   a  comprehensible  
concept  of  a  time  when  Absolute  Beingness  gave  birth  to  the  
87 

supersubstance  of Mind   and began  Creation.  
Within  boundless  space,  the  Super-conscious  and  Super  
Self-aware  Nature  of Absolute  Beingness  holds  sway  and  it     is  
that  which  creates  and  sustains  the  worlds,  without  any  thing  
being able to escape  Its  Divine Will. 
By  making  a  systematic  study  of  the  space-place-time  
expression  of living  forms  of every kind, from  the  amoebas  to  
the   galaxies,   we   find   that  nothing   can   be   separated  from  
Divine  Intelligence.  This  fact  leads  us  to  accept  Total  Power  
and   Total   Wisdom   as   the   obvious   Nature   of  the  First  of  
Beings. 
If  we  were  to  study,  with  very  deep  meditation  on  every  
detail,  some  of  the  cycles  of  probability  and  possibility  of  
existence,  concentrating   separately  on  every  life  form,   we   
would   comprehend   the   concept   of  space—in   the   sense  of  
place  or locality. 
What  place  is  occupied  by  one  amoeba  (space)  and  what  
are  its  cycles  of  probability*  and  possibility*  (time)?  What  
happens  with  the  corresponding  dimensions  of  a  worm  in  the  
depths  of  the  sea,  or  a  planet  of  the  solar  system?  Everything  
occupies   a  comprehensible   space   (place)   and  completes   a   
cycle  of existence  (time).  
Movement  in  outer  space  is  continuous  and  no  object  
ever  occupies  the  same  space  that  it  occupied  the  moment  
before.  We  are  saying  that  what  it  occupies  is  place,  which  
becomes  comprehensible  by  reference  to  other objects  and  we  
postulate   that   it   maintains   its   position   in   relation   to   the   
understood   positions  of these  objects.  
In   the   gross   material   world,   each   life  form   has   two   
cycles—that   of  possibilities   and   that   of  probabilities.   The   
88 

probability  cycle  can  be  cut  at  any  moment.  The  cycle  of  
possibilities,  however,  is  immutable.  It  is  a  Law  of God.  Once  
some plant has  put forth  a  shoot  on our planet,  it     will continue 
to   develop  on  the  basis  of  its  cycle  of possibilities.  It  cannot  
change  its  cycle  of possibilities  and turn  into  some  other plant. 
A pine tree,  for example, cannot become  a lemon  or  an orange 
tree.  A pine  tree  seed will  always  give us  a pine  tree.  
The  cycles  of  possibilities  and  probabilities  are  visible  
and   comprehensible   on   the   gross  material  planet.   We   see   
thousands  of  seeds  blown  about  by  the  wind  and  falling  here  
and  there.  All  these  seeds  contain  within  themselves  the  same  
probabilities  of sprouting  and  tracing  a cycle  of possibilities. 
Let us, then,  look  at these cycles  in the case  of humanity. 
Our  cycle  of    possibility  is:  sperm,  ova,  conception,  birth,  
childhood,  adulthood,  old  age  unto  'death'.  In  this,  only  a part 
of    the  human  cycle  of  possibility  is  fulfilled,  since  'death'  
does  not  put  an  end  to  the  path  of humanity,  but  only  reveals  
the  larger  scope  of   the  cycle  of   possibility  belonging  to  the  
human  form:  birth  and  rebirth  with  an  ever  expanding  range  
of    consciousness.  
In    the   human   form   too,   the   cycle   of   possibility   is   
immutable.   However,  if  the   sperm  is  rejected   and  fails  to  
activate   the  cycle,  that's   it!   There  is  nothing  more.   Such   
events,  evident  only  in  the  gross  material  world,   stand  as  
testimony  to  the  work  of  the  cycle  of  probabilities  in  inter-
rupting  a  cycle  of  possibility  in  accordance  with  the  Divine  
Plan. 
In   the  psychic  world—as far as  humanity  is  concerned—  
the  cycle  of  probabilities  is  absent.  Whatever  has  been  set  
upon   its   path   will   necessarily   follow   its   evolution   in   the   
psychic  world.  The  personality  which  is  set  free  when,  for  
89 

example,  an  infant  dies  or  a  mother  miscarries,  will  continue  
its    life  in  the  psychic  world,  and  if  we  could  follow  it,  we  
would  see  that  the  infant,  who  was  only  three  when  he  passed  
over ten years  previously,  had reached  the  age  of thirteen. 
Never  has  any  parent,  mother  or  father,  lost  a  child  just  
because  its  material  body  has  died.  Such  children  grow  up  in  
the  psychic  world  and  will  continue  their cycle  of possibilities 
in   the  psychic  and  noetical  worlds,  just  as  though  they  were  
still  in the gross material  world.  
Thus,  in  the  psychic  and  noetical  worlds  only  the  cycle  
of   possiblities  exists.  If the  cycle  of probabilities  also  existed,  
our  personalities  would  face  the  eventuality  of their   develop-
ment  being  stopped.  
Let  us  return  now  to  the  three  dimensional  world,  where  
the  cycle  of  possibilities  unfolds  in  space  and  time.  We  all  
have  some  idea  of what  space  is,  since  we  live  our  daily  lives  
in   it     and  our  body  occupies  a  part  of  it.  The  way  in  which  we  
compare  things  helps  us  to  impart  size  to  the  concept.  We  
have,   for   example,   the   space   of   a   room,   which   we   can   
measure.   Within   the   room   there   exists   a   space   of  certain  
limits,  while  outside  the  room  there  is,  of course,  space  with-
out  limits  which  we  can  estimate.  
By  means  of comparison,  we  can  work  out  in  our minds 
a conception  of what  space  is.  If we  had  no  space  which  could  
be    measured  and  used  as  a  basis  for  comparison,  what  mean-
ing  could   wider  space   have   for  us?   Certainly   no   definite   
meaning.   Our   minds   would   be   incapable   of  forming   the   
concept  of space,  since  the  only  understanding  we  have  of the 
infinite—and  space  is  infinite—derives  from  the  use  of  the  
comparative  method.  
Thus   the   nearest   approach   to   understanding   is   by   
90 

accepting   space   as   one   of  the   unresearchable   Natures   of   
Absolute  Beingness.  In  this  way,  we  can  have  a  clearer  view  
of     space    and   recognize   that,    as    a   Nature   of   Absolute   
Beingness,  it    is  a Real  State.  
As  regards  time,  things  look  much  easier.  Time    is  not  
real,  it  is  a  condition  which  is  imagined.  The  succession  of  
events  and   impressions  forms  our concept  of time.  The  cycle  
of    possibilities  includes  a  mass  of  differences,  without  the  
basic  concept  being  affected.  These  differences  become  more  
easily   comprehensible   only   if   they   are   catalogued   as   a   
successive  series.  We  call  this  a   chronological  series  and  it  
gives  us  the  concept  of time  as  this  is  understood  in  the  three  
dimensional  world.  
Time,   however,   in  the   gross   material   world,   is   very   
different from  what  it     is  in  the  psycho-noetical  worlds.  In  the  
world   of  three  dimensions,   time   moves   very   slowly.   One   
event, for example,  may require  days,  months  or even  years  to  
develop.  In  the  psychic  world,  we  can  ponder  over  and  live  
through  the  same  event  in  only  a  few  seconds.  These  two  
cases  differ  in  accordance  with  the  rhythm  of  movement  of  
time. 
The   permanent   personalities    of   humanity    have   the   
capacity  to  understand  this  movement  with  ease.  The  pattern  
of   movement within  time  is different  in each of the  worlds.  
In    the   gross   material   world,   there   are   events   which   
unfold   at   great   speed,   while   others   develop   exceedingly   
slowly.   There   are   also   cases   in   which   the   meaning   is   
impressed  upon  our  minds  like  a  flash  of lightning  and  others  
in   which  time  is  maddeningly  slow.  With  such  conditions  are  
associated  pleasure  and  displeasure,  even hell  and  paradise.  
All  this  provides  us  with  a basis  for the  understanding  of  
91 

time  in  the  different  worlds.  Since  we  live  in  the  material  
world,  in  order  to  change  our  surroundings  we  must  in  some  
way  move  our  bodies.  In  the  psycho-noetical  worlds,  where  
no  material  body  exists,  our  moves  from  one  situation  to  
another   happen   with    the    speed   of   thought.    Change   of   
environment,  therefore,  in  the  psychic  world  happens  in  a  
different  way   and  it  is  exactly   this   which  gives   us   some   
concept  of time  and  space.  For example,  in  the  material  world  
we move  about on foot or in various machines. 
In   the  psychic  world,  movement  takes  place  by  thought  
and  concentration.  Anyone  who  has  the  ability  to escape from 
the  confines  of  the  material  body,  using,  for  example,  the  
method  of exosomatosis,  can  find  himself travelling  from  one  
side  of the  planet  to  the  other  in  a  second  or  two.  We  can  also  
be   here  and  there  and  in  many  other places,  all  at once.  Do we 
in   that  state  have  any  fixed concept  of time?  No.  Conventional  
perceptions  of  time  and  space  collapse  in  exosomatosis  and  
attunement. 
We  have  said  that  every  thing  is  Mind  in  motion.  The  
waves  of the  gross  material  world have  their  own  frequencies.  
The  psychical   and  noetical   worlds  vibrate   at  much  higher  
frequencies.   The  human  personality  can,   by  means   of  the  
appropriate  exercises  and  by  concentration,  find  itself in  these  
worlds  of  greater  dimensions.  There  an  infinite  number  of  
conditions  and  objects  can  occupy  the  same  space,  and   time   
may  be  dissociated from the  idea of speed. 
We  have  there,  furthermore,  conditions   within   space-
locality,  which we can influence,  speeding them  up or slowing 
them  down  at  will.  This  means  that  we  have  mastered  time,  
but  not  space.  Space  is  reality  and  not  imagination.  Since  a  
characteristic  of  both  space  and  time,  as  conditions,  is  Mind  
92 

and  we  also  form  our  conceptions  by  means  of  Mind,  these  
conditions  are  real  for  us,  in  so far  as  the  relevant  concept  of  
them  exists.  If  they  did  not  exist,  we  would  not  experience  
these conditions.  Others, however, might do  so.  
We  must  meditate  deeply  in  order  to  understand  what  
life  is  and  what is  the  indestructible part of ourselves,  which  is  
called  the Ego  and  is  Almighty  God  or Absolute  Beingness.  
93 

CHAPTER  NINE  
THE  WORLDS  
And,  Thou,  Lord,  in  the  beginning  hast  laid  the foundation  of  
the  earth  and  the  heavens  are  the  works  of thine  hands.  
(Heb.  1:10)  
Through  faith   we   understand   that  the  worlds   were  framed  by  
the  word  of God,  so  that  things  which  are  seen  were  not  made  
of   things  which do appear.                                              (Heb.  11:3)  
Thou,  even  thou,  art  LORD  alone;  thou  hast  made  heavens,  the  
heaven  of heavens,  with  all  their  host,  the  earth,  and  made  all  
things  that  are  therein,  the  seas,  and all  that  is  therein,  and  thou  
preservest  them  all  and  the  host  of heaven  worshippeth  thee.  
(Neh. 9:6) 
Only  those  who  are  unaware  of Mind  can  fail  to  distin-
guish   the   majesty   of  Divine   Wisdom,   Divine   Power   and   
Divine  Love.  We,  however,  shall  discern  them,  we  shall  study  
them  and  shall  recognise  the  differing  expressions  of  Total  
Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  Total  Love.  We  shall  also  distin-
guish  between  the  Self  which  has  remained  in  the  state  of  at-
one-ment   and   Beingness   from   the   self   which   has   been   
expressed  into  the  worlds  of existence. 
'As   below,  so  above'.  As  is  the  Microcosm,  so  is  the  
Macrocosm.  Just  as  the  Holy  Monads  of  Humanity  are  pro-
ducing  Soul's  self-awareness,  the  permanent  personality  and  
the  three  bodies,  so  are  Absolute  Beingness,  Christ  Logos,  
95 

Holy  Spirit producing  universes  and  worlds.  
We  have  all  heard  of  the  three  'cosms'  which  contain,  
each  according  to  its  dimensions,  every  aspect  of Creation,  be  
it   an  Idea,  a  condition  or  gross  matter.  These  'cosms'  are  the  
Macrocosm,  the  Mesocosm  and  the  Microcosm.  
The  Macrocosm  
Everything  that  is  from  Absolute  Beingness  down  to  the  
last  atom  of matter,  belongs  to  the  Macrocosm.  All  the  Micro-
cosms,  and much more  as  well,  belong to the  Macrocosm.  
The  Macrocosm  is  Absolute  Beingness  in  Divine  Self-
sufficiency.  This  cosmos  is  the  very  personality  of  Creation.  
Absolute  Beingness  is  everywhere  and  everything.  We  have  
the   Christ   Logos   and   the   Holy   Spirit   in   Divine   Self-
sufficiency  and  Divine  Meditation.  We  have  not  yet  entered  
the  worlds  of  the  heavens  and  universes.  We  are  still  in  the  
'cosms'   of  Absolute   Beingness—Life   in   Overlordship,   in   
Authority.   Here   we   see   Mind,   within   Divine   Meditation,   
become  Divine Expression  as  a  result of Divine Will-pleasure. 
The  first  to  make  use  of  Mind  are  the  Holy  Logos  and  the  
Holy  Spirit.  
The   Macrocosm   includes   the   Microcosm.   Within   the   
Microcosm  there  are  the  gross  material  body,  cells,  the  atmo-
sphere,    gases  and  ether.  We  find  what  corresponds  to  the  
gross  material  body  of  man  in  the  Macrocosm.  The  propor-
tions  are the  same,  as  are  the  shapes.  There,  too,  is the Triadic 
State,  in  the  form  of  the  three  Divine  expressions  of  Reality  
and  the  Tetractys*  (i.e.,  the  four  elements),  like  a  shadow  of  
Reality. 
From  the  moment  the  Holy  Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit  
begin  to make  use  of Mind,  the heavens  are  set in  motion.   No   
96 

concept  of space  exists,  which  is  not,  was  not  and  will  not  be  
Mind.  We  know,  of  course,  that  Absolute  Beingness  is  Life.  
Mind  bears  life,  as  an  expression  of Absolute  Beingness.  
Now  the  universes  take  shape.  Divine  Meditation  con-
tiues,   giving  us   the  world   of  Causes.   Whatsoever  existed,  
exists,  or will  exist  is part of Divine  Meditation  in  the  Eternal  
Now.  We  have  not  reached  the  condition  of  time.  We  are  in  
the  Eternal  Now,  which is  an  aspect of Absolute  Beingness.  
'The fulness  of Him that filleth  all in all,'  as  St.  Paul said 
(Ephesians   1:23).   The   supersubstance   of  Mind   is   without   
form.  The  Divine  Causes  are  in  motion  and  it    is  these  Causes,  
within  Mind,  which  will  be  expressed  as  Ideas  (and  still  later,  
as    forms).  Up  until  this  juncture  we  have  the  causal  and  the  
noetic  states.  Henceforth, dimensions begin.  Then we have the 
giving of Ideas to forms,  which constructs  the noetic  state.  We  
thus have,  at this  point,  Ideas  and Mind  as  form,  as  an expres-
sion  within  the  Infinite,  which  is  part  of  the  Divine  Will-
pleasure.  Forms,  then,  are  noetic,  beyond  the  conditions  of  
place  and time. 
Next,  the  lower  vibrations  of  Mind  as  supersubstance  
begin  and  Mind  as  substance  comes  into  existence.  This  is  the  
noetical  world.  There  follow  yet  lower  vibrations  of  Mind,  
which  give  us  the  psychic  world,  followed  by  the  gross  ma-
terial  world.  
In   the  Macrocosm,  we  shall  also  see  all  the  Orders  of  
Archangels,  who  have  their  own  type  of  basic  self-awareness,  
Divine,  of course,  as  they  express  the  Super-consciousness  of  
the  Holy  Spirit.  These  Orders  work  in  the  Macrocosm  build-
ing  the  universes.  
We  have  said  that  humanity  partakes  in  the  Macrocosm.  
In   what  way?  If we  think  of the  Macrocosm  as  a  reservoir full 
97 

of   water  and  imagine  that  there  is  at  its  very  bottom  a  sponge  
full of the  water,  all the elements  which  make  up the  water are 
also  contained  in  the  sponge.  All  the  same,  the  sponge  is  
something  different.  In  this  way,  too,  the  Microcosms  are  
parts  of the Macrocosm,  like  Macrocosmic  cells.  
In   every  way,  each  microcosmic  expression  is  always  
under  the  supervision  and  control  of the  Macrocosm,  of Abso-
lute Beingness,  of the  Christ Logos  and  of the  Holy  Spirit.  For  
this  reason,  every  man—and  we  speak  in  terms  of the  Macro-
cosm  when  we  call  him  man—is  Holy  Spiritual,  as  a phenom-
enon  of life.  As  we  see  humanity  as  a  permanent  personality,  
moving  into  its  Being  as  a  Self-aware  Soul,  we  find  an  ever  
greater  degree  of  Logoic expression. 
The   Mesocosm   
We  all  know  something  about  the  material  composition  
of   our  planet.  What  applies  to  Planet  Earth  also  applies  to  all  
the  heavenly bodies.  Earth's  gross  material body  is  a planetary 
sphere.  Just  as  humans  have  an  etheric  double  of their bodies, 
there  is  also  an  etheric  double  of  the  planet,  known  as  the  
etheric  world.   Our etheric  double  is  inside  our  gross  material  
body  and extends  around  our body  for  a  short distance  like  an  
egg-shaped   body  of light.  Likewise, Earth's  etheric  double,  is  
centred  in  the  planet's  core,  and extends  for  a number of kilo-
metres  around  it.  The  etheric  double  of  Earth,  however,  does  
not touch  the etheric  double of the  Moon, Earth's  satellite.  
The  gross  material  planet  consists  of  seven  elements.  Of  
these,  three  make  up  the  etheric  double  (the  Triadic  Spiritual  
State)  and  the  other  four  (tetraktys)  compose  the  gross  ma-
terial  body.  The  first  three  elements  we  can  compare  with  
magnetism,   or   electricity   or   various   other   fields   as   yet   
98 

unknown  to  the  orthodox  sciences.  The  four  elements  of  the  
gross material body  of the  planet  are earth,  water,  air and fire. 
Then  we  have  the  etheric  double  of  the  psychic  body  of  
the planet  which  infuses the whole  globe  and  extends, from  its  
centre,  around  it  for  a  very  long  way,  coming  close  to  the  
Moon's  etheric  double.  It  is  only  rarely  and  at  certain  periods  
that   the   Earth's   psychic   etheric   body   touches   that   of  the  
Moon.  When  it     does  so,  it  is  in  order  to  compel  certain  spirit-
beings  to  go  to  the  Moon  and  allow  humanity  to  progress  and  
develop  in peace. 
These  are  tormented  spirits  of  those  whose  behavior  in  
their  earthly  existence  now  binds  them  to  our  planetary  sys-
tem.  Occasionally  such  spirits,  or  their  elementals,  can  enter,  
through  the  etheric  double  the  psychic  body  of  a  person,  via  
the  liver  centre,  and  take  temporary  possession  of that  person.  
We  then  have  the  phenomenon  of  what  is  called  'demonic  
possession',  the  'sacred  disease'  (epilepsy)  and  several  other  
names,   which   were   better  known   in   ancient   times.   Fortu-
nately,  these  beings  cannot  stay  long  on  the  Earth.  The  Moon  
pulls them back.  This  is  an agreement. 
The  noetical  body  of  our  planet  spreads  out  and  touches  
all  the  other  heavenly  bodies  of  the  solar  system.  We  would  
say  that  the  whole  solar  system,  with  the  Sun  at  its  centre,  is  
within  the  single  aura  of  the  etheric  double  of  the  noetical  
body,  which  regulates  all  movement  within  the galaxy. 
Mystics  can  visit  any  planet  they  wish,  but  not  in  their  
material  bodies.  They  must  set  aside  the  gross  material  body  
(first  exosomatosis),   assimilate  their  psychic  body  into  the  
noetical  body  (second  exosomatosis),  and  with  the  noetical  
body they  may  then  reach  the  planet  of their choice. 
Included  in  the  psychic  and  noetical  bodies  of  the  earth  
99 

is   the  planetary  memory  where  all  events  of  the  earth  are  
recorded  and  preserved.  Enveloping  the  galaxy  is  a  still  more  
expansive  library  of events  concerning  our  worlds.  This  is  the  
so-called  Cosmic  Memory.  Everything  is  recorded  simultane-
ously  by  the  temporary  personality,  its  permanent  personality  
and  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  forms  a  part  of the  Cosmic  Memory  
of    our  planet.  If  we  think  of  the  Cosmic  Memory  as  a  bank,  
every  human being plays  the role  of a depositor. 
Each  human  desire,  each  thought,  every  human  reaction,  
or    action,  or impression  is  recorded  both  in  the  material  brain,  
in   the  inner  memory  and  in  the  Cosmic  Memory,  which  is  a  
construction  of Mind.  There  is  nothing  which  is  not  recorded  
in   the Cosmic  Memory  and entered  in the heavenly  archives.  
However,  the  Cosmic  Memory  is  not  only  memory.  It  is  
the  totality  of  human  impressions,  thoughts,  emotions,   and   
desires,  as  it  is  also  the  totality  of  the  angelic,  Archangelic,  
Holy  Spiritual  and  Logoic  expressions.  
The  worlds  have  already  been  formed  by  the  Logos,  by  
the  Holy  Spirit,  by  the  Archangels  of  the  elements  and  by  
other Archangelic  Orders  and,  finally,  by humanity  itself.  
As  we  have  said,  these  worlds  are  the  gross  material,  the  
psychic  and  the  noetical.  Within  these  worlds,  humanity  is  
able  to  form  and,  in  some  ways,  create  its  own  environment.  
We  can  build  a  paradise  or  a  hell   with  the  elementals  we  
create  and  regenerate.  We  each  have  some  concept  of  a  para-
dise.  As  for  hell,  without  stretching  our  imagination,  we  can  
envision  it     as   a  series  of heavy  lampshades  placed over a very 
bright  lamp  (i.e.,  the  Spirit-Ego-Being).  The  shades  are  built  
of   confusion  and  ignorance.  
These  planes,  a  network  of  heavens  and  hells,  are  inde-
pendent of each other,  but  are  also  linked together  in  a  system.  
100 

They  are  worlds   and  planes  of  illusion  and  ignorance,  which  
remain  in  an  uneasy  continuous  flux.  Nevertheless,  as  planes  
in   which  we  can  live,   they  are  essential  to  give  humanity  
expansive  knowledge  of reality. 
The   psychic    world   consists   of   matter,   which   also   
vibrates,  but  at  a  more  accelerated  state  than  in  the  material  
world.  The  same  applies  to  the  noetical  world,  which  is  in  an  
even more rarefied  state  than  the psychic. 
Not  only  is  our planet inhabited but  so  is  the  space  above  
us.  In  space  there  are  Beings  who  live  in  worlds  of different 
dimensions,  in   worlds  beyond  the  three  dimensional.  Human-
ity,  as  it     exists  today,  does  not  comprehend  the  worlds  which  
extend  beyond  three  dimensions.  We  cannot  understand  that  
there  are  finer  substances—of  Mind,  of  course—thinner  than  
the  air,  in  which Beings  more complete than ourselves  live.  
We  can,  however,  by means  of exercises  and  exosomato-
sis,  live  in  these  worlds,  while  still  inhabiting  the  gross  ma-
terial  world.  There  are  more  wonderful  worlds  than  the  planet  
we  call  our own,  as well  as worse  ones.  
The  Most  Beloved  Jesus  Christ  told  His  disciples,  'I  go  
to   prepare  a  place  for  you'  (John   14:2).  Did  all  the  human  
beings  really  understand,  we  wonder,  what  the  God-Man  was  
saying?  Because  only  Those  who  have  descended  from  other  
dimensions  Self-consciously  know  these  worlds.  But  we  who  
live  at  lower  levels  of  the  phenomenon  of  life  can  come  to  
know  these  worlds.  What  is  needed  is  to  develop  within  our-
selves   psycho-noetical   sensitivity   to   the   more  rarefied   vi-
brations  of which  those  more perfected  worlds  are  composed.  
In   our  System  we  stress  the  full  development  of the per-
sonality;   becoming   a   moral   and   ethical   individual   before   
developing the gifts  of clairvoyance  and the kind.  The impetus 
101 

of    the  Christ  Logos  towards  perfection  is  continuous.  'Be  ye  
therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  in  Heaven  is  perfect'  
(Matthew  5:48).  
The  earth  is  good  and  the  impressions  made  by  earthly  
things  are  good,  but  they  are  only  transitory  and  fleeting.  The  
gross  material  environment  is  beautiful  (with  the  exception  of  
humanity's  careless   intervention);   the   seas,   the  mountains,  
everything  that  takes  part  in  nature.  This  is  because  the  body  
of    nature,   which   provides   us   with   varied   phenomena   and   
which  controls  the  differing  types  of  life  on  the  planets  is  
overseen   by   Archangelic   Beings   and   Their   stewards,   the   
angels,  who  work  with  the  Holy  Spirit  within  Divine Wisdom. 
The  worlds  of  four  dimensions  are  more  dynamic  and  
life  is expressed more fully there—as  it     also  is  in  the  so-called  
hells.  This  is  because  even  in  these  hells  there  is  better  under-
standing   and   greater   opportunity   to   disentangle   humanity   
from its  imaginings,  fascinations and  illusions.  
We  will  speak  again  of the  noetical  world,  but  one  facet  
is   perhaps  necessary  to  note  at this  point;  if the  psychic  world,  
with  its  brilliant  light,  which  is  far  beyond  comparison  with  
what  we  call  light  in  the  gross  material  world,  is  like  a moon-
lit    night,  the  noetical  world,  by  the  same  standards,  would  be  
like high noon  in  the Mediterranean.  There is  much more  light  
and  much  greater comfort for  all  phenomena  of life. 
The  Microcosm  
'As  above,  so  below.'  As  the  Macrocosm  is,  so  is  the  
Microcosm.  As  are  Absolute  Beingness,  the  Christ  Logos,  the  
Holy  Spirit  and  the  universes,  so  are  the  Holy  Monad,  the  
Self-aware  Soul  of  human  beings,  the  permanent  self-aware  
personality  and  its  bodies.  
102 

We  are  an  image  and  a  likeness  of the  Lord.  In  quality,  
but  certainly  not in  quantity.  We  differ as  far  as   overlordship   
is   concerned.  
By  knowing  the  Microcosm,  we  know  the  Macrocosm.  
By  knowing  man,  we  know  God.  By  knowing  the  material,  
the  psychic  and  the  noetical  bodies,  we  know  the  universes.  
By  knowing  Mind,  in  the  way  humanity  uses  it     (elementals  of  
desire-thoughts  and  thought-desires),  we  know  Mind  as  sub-
stance  and  supersubstance,  as  used  by  the  Logos  and the  Holy  
Spirit as  the  means  of creating  and  maintaining  the  universes.  
It   is  impossible  to  properly  study  the  universes  until  we  
know  our  inner  selves.  Once  we  know  the  treasures  within,  
drawing  closer  to  Absolute  Beingness,  we  can  expand  our  
consciousness  outward.  That  part  of  us  that  resonates  with  
Absolute  Beingness  is  our  Inner-most  Self,  the  Holy  Monad.  
This  Inner-most  Self  of  ours  is,   'of  one  substance  with  the  
Father'  (Nicene  Creed).  It  is  Absolute  Beingness  in  Its  Multi-
plicity.  Our  Holy  Monadic  Self  is  indeed  Absolute  Beingness  
in   Its  Self-sufficiency,  as  Its  Total  Wisdom,  Its  Total  Power  
and  Its  Total Love. 
Absolute  Beingness  exults  in  Its  Multiplicity.  As  does  
our  own  Holy  Monad  in  its  own  multiplicity.  As  one  expres-
sion  of the  Multiplicity  of Absolute  Beingness,  we  see  the  'of  
all     Holies  the most  Holy Logos'  in complete expression  and in 
full  harmony  of  the  three  Divine  qualities,  Total  Wisdom,  
Total  Power  and  Total  Love,  governing  over  and  maintaining  
life in the  universes.  
Corresponding  to  the  Christ  Logos  in  the  Macrocosm,  
we  have  in the  Microcosm our own  Soul  Self-awareness,  after  
it  has  passed through  the  Human  Idea.  What  is  the  connection  
between  Heavenly  Man—that  is  to  say  the  Human  Idea—and  
103 

our  own  Holy  Monad?  Does  the  Heavenly  Man  affect  our  
Holy  Monadic  Self?  
Not  at  all!  As  concerns  our  Holy  Monadic  Self,  there  is  
no  question  of effect  or  requirement,  but  simply  free  will  and  
choice.  We  would  say  that  our  Holy  Monadic  Self can  choose  
to   be  able  to  extend  its  own  radiations,  not  only  through  the  
Human  Idea,  but  also  through  other  Archangelic  Ideas  and  
into  other  universes.  This  is  because  the  Microcosm  is  part  of  
the  Macrocosm.  Were  it    not  so,  we  would  not be  able  to liken 
ourselves with the Christ Logos  (cf.  2 Cor.  3:18).  
The  Microcosm  belongs  to  our  Spirit-Ego-Being.  The  
first  expression  of  this  Holy  Monadic   Self  is  also  the  free  
expression  of  our  will,  in  an  unlimited  and  omnipotent  way.  
The  part  of  our  self  corresponding  to  the  Christ  Logos  is  our  
eternal  Self-aware  Soul.  A  ray  of  the  Holy  Monad  descends  
from  Heaven  and  passes  through  Heavenly  Man,  the  Human  
Idea,   forming   the   Self-aware   Soul.   We   must  honour   the   
Human  Idea,  seeing  that  the  most  complete  human  radiation,  
that  of  the  Christ  Logos  Itself,  honoured  the  Human  Idea  by  
calling His  earthly  self the  'Son  of Man'  (John  3:13-14).  
Our   permanent   personality   is   a   Holy   Spiritual   and   
Logoic  expression.  However,  our  noetical,  psychic  and  gross  
material  bodies,  with  their  etheric  doubles—as  vehicles  for  
the  Selfhood—are  to  a  large  degree  expressions  of  the  Holy  
Spirit. 
In  the  noetic  state  is  the  work  of the  Logos  and  the  Holy  
Spirit  by  means  of which  the  Self-aware  Soul  manifests  itself  
as    the  permanent  personality.  From  this  point  the  Holy  Spirit  
begins  to  build  the  small  created  universes,  that  is  to  say  our  
noetical,  psychic  and  gross  material  bodies,  in  the  same  way  
as   the  Christ Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit build the noetical, psy-
104 

chic  and  gross  material  worlds.  
In   conclusion,  the  Microcosm  is  where  the  Holy  Monad  
has  chosen  to  project  itself,  passing  through  this  Human  Idea,  
and  radiating  like  a  sun.  Man,  the  Microcosm,  is  the  image  
and likeness  of the  Lord.  
Other  Holy  Monads  (Archangelic),  who  have  not  passed  
through  the  Human  Idea,  are  likenesses  of  the  Lord,  but  not  
images  of  Him.   Only  humanity  is  the  Prodigal  Son,  who,  
when  he  returns,  takes  his  place  and,  moreover,  knows  which  
place  to  take  in the palace of his Heavenly Father. 
But  we  all,  with  open  face  beholding  as   in  a  glass  the  
glory  of the  Lord,  are  changed  into  the  image from  glory  
to   glory,  even  as  by   the  Spirit  of the Lord.    (2 Cor.  3:18)  
105 

CHAPTER  TEN  
LIGHT  AND  SUPERLIGHT  
And  God  made  two  lights;  the  greater  light  to  rule  the  day,  and  
the  lesser  light  to  rule  the night...                                (Gen.  1:16)  
And  the   light  shineth   in   darkness;  and  the   darkness   compre-
hended it    not.                                                                    (John  1:5)  
The  light  we  know  in  the  gross  material  world,  through  
the  medium  of  sight,  is  nothing  more  than  etheric  vibrations  
which  spread  out  from  some  centre.  For  us,  the  most  impor-
tant  source  of light  is  the  Sun.  The  etheric  vibrations,  as  they  
travel,  collide  with  various  surfaces  and reflect.  This reflected 
light transmits  in  its reflection  all  the  details  of the  object with 
which it    has  collided,  such  as  its  shape,  colour,  size  and so on. 
The  eye,  acting  as  a  receptor,  sets  these  details  in  order  and  
gives us the resulting picture. 
Apart  from  physical   light,   however,   there   is  psychic  
light,  which  illuminates  all  the  planes  and  sub-planes  of  the  
psychic  world.  This  light  has  two  aspects.  First  of  all,  its  
source  is  each  atom  and  cell  of  psychic  material.  This  is  not  
what  occurs  in  the  gross  material  world,  where  a  centre  of  
very  high  frequency  etheric  vibration  is  required  for  the  crea-
tion  of  light.  In  the  psychic  world,  on  every  plane  and  sub-
plane, each atom,  each  molecule  and every  thing  that has  exis-
tence  gives  off its  own  light.  Nothing  in  the  psychic  world  is  
lit   by reflection. 
107 

The  other  aspect  of  psychic  light  is  that  its  vibrations  
provide  a  feeling  of satisfaction,  which  is  difficult  for  human  
personalities  (in  the  material  world)  to  understand,  since  there  
is   no corresponding experience  in  the  gross  material world. 
All  our  emotions  are  born  and  develop  within  psychic  
light,  because  what  we  call  the  psychic  world  is  the  world  of  
emotions.  The  brighter  the  psychic  light  with  which  our  per-
sonality is  bathed,  the greater will  be  the  satisfaction we feel. 
Nevertheless,  there  are  areas  in  which  what  we  call  psy-
chic  darkness  prevails,  although even  there  the  darkness  is  not  
total.  These  areas  correspond  to  the  so-called  hells.  The  dark-
ness  which prevails  there produces  a feeling  of unrest  and  dis-
satisfaction.  These  are  located  in  the  lowest  sub-planes  of the 
psychic   world.   We  could   say   that  these  are  conditions   in   
which  the  light  does  not  shine,  but  manifests  itself  at  its  low-
est  frequency,  which  means  that  absolute  darkness  is  not  a  
feature  of the  psychic  world.  The  impression  of  the  personal-
ity  which  has  come  to  such  a  low  sub-plane  is  that  it  is  an  
environment  of insufficient  light,  excluding  the  possibility  for  
any  feeling  of contentment. 
Beyond  the  psychic  light  there  is  noetical  light,  which  
need  not  particularly  concern  us,  since  it  forms  a  continuum  
with  psychic  light,  simply  corresponding  to  the  higher  fre-
quencies  of the  noetical  world.  
Above  the  worlds  of  separation  there  exists  the  so-called  
mental  light.  The  mental  or  inextinguishable  light is  no  longer  
something  which  illuminates  an  object  in  order  to  transmit  
impressions   and  used   as   a  means   of  comprehending   such   
objects.  The  light    itself,  in  this  case,  is  total  understanding  
and  cannot  be  associated  with  the  concept  of  'seeing',  but  
only  of  'illumination'—the  true  perception  which  comes  with  
108 

the  blessings  of attunement  and  at-one-ment.  
The  God-man,  Joshua  the  Christ,  in  the  transfiguration  
became  (cf.  Matt.  17:  1-8),    in  order  to  dispel  any  lingering  
doubts  in  the  minds  of some  of the  disciples,  the whole contin-
uum  of light,  from  the  visible  to  this  mental  light.  In  the  East,  
as    described  in  The  Bhagavad  Gita\  we  find  a  similar  display  
of    the  brilliance  of man's  Divine  nature  when  Krishna,  in  the  
interchange  with  Arjuna,  expressed  his  Being  as  a  'fiery  sun  
blazing  in every  direction'  (11:17).  Krishna explains  the  light;  
'Behold the  entire  cosmos  turning  within my  body'  (11:7).  
The  light  we  know  on  the  material  plane  is  a  means  of  
obtaining  pictures  and  of  understanding  facts  and  is  used  by  
the   personality   to   comprehend   its   environment.   We   have,   
therefore,  the  object,  the  means,  and  the  personality.  This  tri-
angle is  something we find,  in different guises,  not only  in the 
gross  material  world,  but  in the psychic  and  noetical  worlds  as  
well. 
Superlight,  however,  is  less  a means,  and  more  a charac-
teristic  of the  Self-aware  Soul  (not  of the  temporary  personal-
ity),  which  gives  the  satisfaction  of  attunement  and  at-one-
ment  with  whatever the  Self-aware  Soul  desires.  
As  far  as  the  relationship  between  object,  means  and  
receptor is    concerned,  the  triangle  (object of study,  Superlight,  
Self-aware  Soul)  in  the  worlds  of  Superlight  tends  to  be  seen  
as    being the  same  as  the  high peaks  of that  world  and  as  creat-
ing  a  state  of complete  contentment  and  wisdom.  
Within  Superlight  and  beyond  the  noetical  world  we  are  
no  longer  in  the  worlds  of separation  and  existence,  but  in  the  
1
  The  Bhagavad  Gita,  Trans.  Eknath  Easwaran.  Nilgiri  Press.   1985.   
109 

states  of  at-one-ment  and  Beingness.  We  have  entered  into  
Absolute  Beingness,  without,  however,  being  totally  absorbed  
by  the  Highest  Godhead.  We  are  within  Absolute  Beingness,  
but  can,  all  the  same,  distinguish  between  'I  am',  'You  are'  
and  Being.  Returning  from  our  sojourn  into  the  worlds  of  
duality  we  have  earned  this  independence;  the  Microcosm  has  
entered   the   Macrocosm.   Separateness   as   space-place-time   
existences  is  extinguished;  we  are  no  longer  known  by  any  
name,  as  in the lower worlds,  but rather by the Divine  Individ-
uality  of Self-conscious   Beingness.   
110 

CHAPTER  ELEVEN  
HOW THE HUMAN  BODY IS  CONSTRUCTED  
What?  know  ye  not  that  your  body  is  the   temple  of  the  Holy  
Ghost  which  is  in  you,  which  ye  have  of God,  and   ye  are  not  
your  own?  For  ye  are  bought  with  a  price:   therefore  glorify  
God  in  your  body,  and  in  your  spirit,  which  are  God's.  
(1    Cor. 6:19,20) 
Let  us  begin  from  the  bottom,  that  is  to  say,  from  the  
gross  material  world.  Symbolically,  in  the  course  of  Creation  
and  especially  when  God  created  humanity,  we  read  that  He  
breathed  into  clay,  which  He  made  of  the  earth  (which  of  
course  was  also  a  part  of  Himself),  the  breath  of  His  breath,  
and  created  man—a  living  Soul.  Within  the  human  body,  at  
whatever  stage,  in  infancy,  childhood,  adolescence,  maturity  
or    old  age,  there  works  the  Power  and  Total  Wisdom  which  
builds  and  maintains  the material  body.  
No  one  can  doubt  the  fact  that  nature  is  endowed  with  
the  ability  to  create.  We  can  see  everywhere  Divine  Wisdom.  
The  material  body  is  constructed  according  to  Laws  and  in  a  
definable  mould.  That  mould,  whose  archetype  is  the  Hea-
venly  Man,  the  Human  Idea,  is  filled  with  the  creative  power  
of   the  Archangels  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  who  enjoy  this  labour,  
for this  Idea was  honoured by  Jesus  Christ,  as  He  called Him-
self the  'Son  of Man'. 
Anatomically  and  physiologically  we  see  the  body,  the  
111 

pulse  of life,  that  is  built  in  Total  Wisdom,  with  flesh,  bones,  
blood,  brain,  nervous  system,  sympathetic  nerves,  ganglia  and  
so   on.  Science  acknowledges  its inability to explain the mirac-
ulous  ways  in  which  many  parts  of  our  body  work  in  perfect  
harmony. 
By  and  large,  we  all  know  our  material  body.  From  the  
point  of view  of existence  and form,  it     is the house  of our  five  
senses,   which  provide   us   with   a  mass   of  information,   on   
which  empirical  research  is  based.  This  aspect,  then,  belongs  
to   science.  
But  we,  as  Researchers  of Truth,  shall  try  to  understand  
the  construction  of our  material  bodies  from  the  point  of view 
of    inner  knowledge.  
The  human  body  consists  of  seven  elements.   Four  of  
these  are:  
1)   earth—a  visible  element  
2)   water—a visible  element  
3)   fire—visible  when there is  a flame 
4)   air —an element we  can feel 
The  remaining  three  elements  are  of  a  higher  electro-
magnetic  nature  and  are  used  in  the  construction  of our higher 
bodies  and the etheric  doubles.  
When  a human  being  descends  into  the  worlds  of separa-
tion,  an  Archangel  from  the  Thrones  (Grk.  MstaBgoviog)  
accompanies   him,   who   is   known   to   us   as   our   Guardian   
Archangel.   It  is  followed  by   an   Archangel   of  fire,   called   
Michael,   an   Archangel   of   water,   called   Gabriel,   and   an   
Archangel  called  Raphael,  who  works  with  the  three  higher  
elements   and  creates  our  etheric   double.   With  them  come  
Uriel,  who  is  the  coordinating  Archangel,  and  Shamael,  who  
112 

is   the  angel  of  earth.  Shamael  is  the  elemental  projection  of  
Lucifer.  He is    not an Archangel. 
Thus,  within  the  material  body  of  every  human  being  
there  works  a  Michael,  a  Gabriel,  a  Raphael,  a  Uriel  and  a  
Shamael.  There  are  an  infinite  number  of Archangels  of these 
Orders. 
Let  us  now  look  at  the  way  each  Archangel  serves  us.  
Shamael,  as  the  angel  of  earth  and  minerals,  provides  us,  in  
everlasting  cooperation  with  the  Archangels,  the  material  for  
our  bones,  our  muscles  and  the  organs  of  the  body.  Michael  
gives  us  bodily  warmth  and  the  warm,  red  blood.  Gabriel  
gives   us   the  body's   various   fluids.   Raphael   gives   us   our   
etheric  vitality  and  plays  an  invaluable  role  in  the  mainte-
nance  of good health  in  each  of us. 
Michael's  light  is  red,  in  all  its  shades.  He  is  the  Arch-
angel  of fire.  Gabriel's  light  is  a  brilliant  azure,  in  many  dif-
ferent  shades  down  to  a  dark  blue.  He  is  the  Archangel  of  
water.  Raphael,  the  Archangel  of  energy,  is  characterized  by  
the  shades  of violet.  The  great  harmonizer  of substance,  Uriel,  
is   in the  silvery-white  light.  
We  see  a human being die—we prefer to  say  'pass  over'.  
What  is  characteristic  of a corpse?  Earth.  Everything becomes 
a  gas  and  returns  to  earth.  What  is  not dissolved  and  takes  its  
departure   is   our   present   personality.   Raphael   is   the   first   
Archangel to depart, for it   is   he who cuts  the  silver cord,  in his 
capacity  as  controller  of  etheric  vitality.  Then  the  departing  
personality    sets    flight,    accompanied    by    the    Archangel    
Michael,  who  in  leaving  takes  his  warmth  with  him,  which  
explains  why  a dead  body  rapidly  cools.  
Together  with  Michael,  Gabriel  also  departs  and  aban-
dons  the  watery  element,  so  that  he  ceases  to  coordinate  the  
113 

working  of  the  body's  various     liquids.     The  coordinating  
Archangel  Uriel  also  leaves.  The  only  one  who  does  not  fol-
low   them   is   Shamael,   the   angel   of  earth,   who,   as   such,   
remains  with  the earth. 
Michael,  Gabriel   and  Raphael  work  simultaneously  in  
the  material,  psychic  and  noetical  bodies  through  the  etheric  
doubles  of each  body.  
In   the  psychic  body,  however,  Raphael  and  Gabriel  play  
the  principal  roles,  since  they  have  a  closer  connection  with  
etheric matter,  while  Michael plays  a secondary role. 
Then,  when  the  psychic  body  is  also  discarded,  at  the  
time  of  the  so-called  'second  death',  these  Archangels  work  
together on the noetical body.  Raphael,  again, has the predom-
inant role  at  that  stage,  as  controller  of Mind,  in  its  pure  state.  
Similarly,  Michael's  work  there  is  of greater intensity,  while  it  
is  Gabriel  who plays  a secondary role. 
When  the  material  body  is  discarded,  we  might  ask what 
becomes  of its  etheric  double?  What  does  Raphael  do  with  it?  
He  dissolves  it     and  is  himself transferred  to  the  etheric  double  
of    the  psychic  body,  which  in  its  turn  will  be  dissolved  and  
the  Archangels,  together  with  our  personality,  will  be  trans-
ferred  to the etheric double  of the  noetical  body.  
Thus  the  so-called  etheric  doubles  are  the  binding  links  
between  the  various  bodies  and  are  withdrawn  when  the  bod-
ies  are dissolved. 
114 

CHAPTER  TWELVE  
THE  ETHERIC   DOUBLE   
Within   the   gross   material   body   of  a   living   existence   
there  exist  currents  of energy  which  we  call  'ether'  (Mind  at  
certain  rates  of  vibration).  The  flow,  distribution  and  storing  
of    this  energy  takes  place  within  a  field  which  surrounds  the  
body.  We call this field the etheric double. 
Every  gross  material,  psychic,  and  noetical  body  has  an  
etheric   counterpart   or  double.   Each   atom   and   cell   in   the   
material  body  possesses  an  individual  etheric  double,  which  
combine  to  form  the  etheric  double  of  the  entire  body.  The  
material  body's  etheric  double  works  in  its  own  way  and  also  
affects  groups  of  atoms  and  cells,  so  that  the  various  organs  
function  in  unison  allowing  the  gross  material  body  to  display  
the  phenomenon  of life. 
We  find  that  there  is  no  particle,  atom  or cell  within  the  
gross  material  body  which  does  not  have  an  etheric  counter-
part,  which  holds  it  together,  maintains  it  and  coordinates  its  
growth. 
Judging  by  the  way  it  behaves  within  material  cells,  the  
nature  of  this  etheric  energy  is   something  akin  to  electro-
magnetic  plasma,  as  today's  scientists  call  it.  It  is  there  for  a  
definite  purpose.  We  must  not  imagine  that  the  flesh,  the  
blood  or  the  nervous  system  create  this  force.  It  would  be  as  
ignorant  to  believe  this  as  to  imagine  that  the  wire  creates  the  
115 

electricity.  It  carries  it,  certainly.  No  wire,  however,  creates  
electricity, just  as  no  material  body  can  create  the  electromag-
netic  plasma  or  what  is  known  as  personal  magnetism  in  the  
terminology  of  para-psychology.  Etheric  vitality  is,  in  fact,  
Mind  in  an  expression,  which  vibrates  to  create  the  human  
personality   (when   shaped   into   psycho-noetical   elementals).   
The  etheric  doubles  are  used  as  the  conduit—for  the  flow  of  
etheric  vitality—between  the  material,  the  psychic  and  noeti-
cal  bodies.  Both  the  psychic  and  noetical  bodies  have  their  
own  etheric  doubles,  which  they  use,  quite  apart  from  their  
special tasks,  as the links between  all three bodies. 
The  etheric  double  cannot,  independently  of  the  gross  
material  body  or  by  itself,  mirror the  human  condition,  as  can  
happen  with  the  psychic  and  noetical  bodies.  An  etheric  dou-
ble  cannot  detach  itself from  its body,  except  when  the  body  is  
dissolving. 
The  work of the  etheric  double  is,  therefore,  many  sided.  
There  are  the  basic  tasks,  of which  we  shall  speak,  as  well  as  
others  which  we  can  only  know  after  appropriate  training,  
when  we,  as  human  beings,  reach  the  point  at  which  we  can  
consciously  make  use  of etheric  substance.  
Within  the  human  body  we  have  identified  four  classes  
of    etheric   substance:   creative   ether,   sensate  ether,   imprint   
ether and  kinetic  ether.  
This  does  not  mean  that  the  etheric  body  is  divided  into  
separate  parts,  but  that  the  supersubstance  of  Mind,  which  
contains   within   itself   all   conditions,   is   adapted   in   each   
instance  to  the  particular requirement  which has  to  be  met.  
Creative  ether  is  that  state  which,  under  the  supervision  
of   and  according  to  the  will  of the  Holy  Spirit,  constructs  and  
maintains  the  phenomena of life. 
116 

The  Holy  Spirit,  guided  by  Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  
and  Total  Love,  uses  creative  ether to  build  the  gross  material  
body  and  its  various  organs.  It  builds,  maintains,  and  takes  
care  of  the  body's  proper  functioning.  Whatever  part  of  the  
material  body  we  study—the  texture  of the  brain,  the  fluid  of  
the   eyes,   the   different   sense   organs,   the   operation   of  the  
glands,  of  the  lungs,  of  the  liver,  of  the  intestines—all  bear  
witness  to  the continuous  presence  of the  Holy  Spirit.  
Imprint  ether is  used  to  shape  etheric  vitality  and  is  vital  
to   our work  in  visualization.  Due  to  imprint  ether  we  are  able  
to   memorize  and  store  images.  Imprint  ether,  when  used  in  
recording  images,  helps  us  see  the  shapes  in various  sizes,  col-
ours  and  designs.  
Sensate  ether  is  the  'feeling  giving'  ether.  By  merit  of  
sensate  ether  we  enjoy  the  sensation  of  physical  pleasure,  or  
suffer  from  bodily  pain.  Sensate  ether  is  also  used  by  the  
human  personality  and  its  permanent  personality  in  conjunc-
tion   with   imprint   ether.   By   the   parallel   use   of  these   two   
etheric   states,   the   phenomenon   of  memory   is   constructed,   
which  is  only  the  smallest  part  of real  memory.  Real  memory,  
of   course,  is  not  to  be  found  in  any  of our  material  organs  or  
in   the  structure  of  a  present  day  personality,  but  exists  in  that  
part  which  we  call  'The  Kingdom  of Heaven  within  us',  and  is  
of   our Soul  Self.  
The   use   of  kinetic   ether—which   facilitates   motion—   
begins  long  before  our  birth.  All  the  conscious  movements  
(walking,  movement of the hands,  the eyes  and  so on),  as  well  
as    the  autonomic  ones  (circulation  of the  blood,  breathing,  the  
receipt,  assimilation  and  discarding  of  substances,  and  all  the  
other unconscious  actions)  take  place  with  the  help  of kinetic 
ether. 
117 

This  unconscious  movement,  therefore,  is  clearly  Holy  
Spiritual  and  gives  to  the  whole  the  phenomenon of life  in  the  
gross  material  body.  
There  is,  indeed,  another  kind  of  movement,  sometimes  
called  ectoplasmic  projection  of  etheric  vitality,  which,  how-
ever,   concerns   only   those   human   beings   who   are   in   an   
advanced  state  of  initiation  and  are  deliberately  exteriorizing  
etheric  energy.  
We  must  use  the  etheric  substance  of  our  gross  material  
body  without  interfering  with  the  creative  work  of  the  Holy  
Spirit  and  in  such  a  way  as  to  be  worthy  of  Logoic  express-
ion,  in  order  to  develop  our  own  personality  and  those  of  the  
others. 
When  we  have  achieved  control  of our  etheric  double  by  
patient  training  and  a  correct  way  of  life,  we  can  despatch  
energy from  it    by means  of its  kinetic  property,  into the  bodies  
of   other human  beings,  in  order to help  those  persons.  
In    psychotherapy,   we   send   out   this   etheric   vitality   
impregnated  with  our  will,  to  heal  and  correct  various  condi-
tions.  This  means  that,  in order to do  so,  we  must draw  energy  
from  the etheric  double  of our gross material  and psychic  bod-
ies.  If we  do  this  self-consciously,  we  imbue  it    simultaneously 
with  noetical  substance,  creating  an  elemental  of the  thought-
desire  variety,  endowed  with  all  the  four  kinds  of  ether.  If  
super-consciously  projected,  we  can  follow  the  course  and  
activity  of this  elemental.  
Our  imprint  ether  keeps  us  informed  of  what  this  ele-
mental is doing  and whether it   is   doing what we  sent it    to do. 
Our sensate ether helps  us  to feel  what is   going on within 
the  body  of the  sick person. 
118 

Our kinetic ether is    the means for the  transport of the  ele-
mental,  while  the creative ether carries out the  actual  therapy.  
Apart   from   this   directed   and   organised   dispatch   of   
etheric  substance,  there  is  also  a  similar but  subconscious  way  
in   which  it    occurs   for the  purpose  of transferring  etheric  vita-
lity from the  strong to the  weak.  
A  human  being  who  is  weak,  in  seeking  to  regain  his  
strength,    draws,    subconsciously,    etheric    substance    from    
stronger  persons  around  him.  In  most  instances  the  givers  feel  
pleased, provided their own  stock is sufficient. 
In   cases  where  this  withdrawal  is  excessive,  the  donor  
begins  to  feel  uncomfortable.  Many  likes  and  dislikes  in  our  
society  are  created  by  the  unconscious  transfer  of etheric  sub-
stance from  one person to another. 
By  nature,  the  ordinary  person  does  not  have  such  quan-
tities  of etheric  vitality  as  not  to  be  exhausted  when  other peo-
ple  draw  it  out  of him  subconsciously,  or  when  he  himself,  in  
his  arrogance,  gives  it  away  to  other  human  beings,  whom—  
egotistically—he  thinks  he  loves.  In  such  cases,  various vibra-
tions  are  created  in  the  psychic  body  of the  donor,  which  take  
the form  of antipathy, fear,  unease  and  other conditions. 
We   ought,   therefore,   to   make   conscious   use   of  the  
etheric  doubles,  because  abuse  of  them  creates  terribly  un-
pleasant  conditions.  
Human  beings  constantly  give  out  energy  and  anyone  
can receive  this etheric power  and  use  it    for healing.  We know 
of    such  a  situation  with  Jesus  Christ,  when  the  widow  suffer-
ing  from  a  haemorrhage  touched  his  clothes.  'Who  touched  
me?'  He  said  (Mark  5:30).  His  disciples  were  perplexed,  as  
the crowds  were pressing  against  the  Lord on  all  sides.  
119 

Jesus  continued,  'I  perceive  that  virtue  is  gone  out  of  
me'  (Luke  8:46).  He  was  referring to  this  etheric  vitality.  The  
etheric  double  of  our  gross  material  body  is  vital  for  proper  
maintenance  and  flow  of energy.  It  stores  and  distributes  the  
substance  of  the  phenomenon  of life. 
It  is from the centre  of each  particle,  each atom,  each cell 
and  each  organ  that  this  power  proceeds.  And  it  does  so  in  
more  than  one  way.  The  work  of building  and  maintaining our 
gross  material  body  is  complicated.  
It   is  not  easy  for  us  to  understand  what  exactly  is  hap-
pening  inside  us.  It  requires  deep  meditation,  sufficient  look-
ing   within   and   Divine   enlightenment   for   us   to   reach   an   
understanding  of  the   Holy   Spiritual   and  Archangelic   work   
going  on  inside  our material  body.  This  pursuit  is  in  common  
with  our  effort   to  comprehend  the  Logoic  expression  of our 
personality. 
Within   the   Microcosm,   the   Holy   Spirit   works   with   
Super-conscious   Intelligence   from   within   thousands   upon   
thousands  of centres  towards  the  periphery.  
When  Moses  began  to  look  within  himself  and  con-
sciously  moved  up  to  the  level  of  the  cerebellum,  which  was  
symbolised by  the bramble bush which  is  in flames  (that never 
burns  away),  he  heard,  for  the  first  time,  the  voice  of  God.  
When,  at  some  time,  we  too  can  energize  the  etheric  disc—  
which  is  centred  in the cerebellum—we  shall hear the  voice  of  
our Inner Self,  our Self-aware  Soul.  Then  we  shall  understand  
just  how  sacred  is  the  space  we  occupy.  We  are  standing  on  
holy  ground!  
Our  three  bodies  are  temples  of God.  As  we  live  within  
God,  Absolute  Beingness  lives  within  us.  In  them,  we  are,  we  
live  and  have  our  personality.  At  the  same  time  Its  Logoic  
120 

expression  helps  build  our  permanent  personality,  while  the  
Holy  Spirit  expresses  omnipotent  energy  to  manifest  the  phe-
nomenon of life  in the  worlds of separation. 
Subsequently,  when  we  say,  'We  shall  stand  firm  in the 
Lord',  we  mean  that  we  must  stand firm  inside  ourselves. Our 
bodies  are    temples  of  God   and  the  dwelling  place  of the 
Logos  and  of our permanent  personality.  
The  disturbance  of  the  requisite  balance  in  our  bodies  
leads  to  an  inadequate  expression  of  God,   which   gives  us  
pain,  despair and feelings of inferiority. 
We  must  pay  close  attention  to  our  training,  which will 
establish  us  as competent to  use our etheric  doubles  in  cooper-
ation  with  the  Holy  Spirit  in  the  maintenance  of  our  three  
bodies. 
The  human  race,  not  recognizing  the  Holy  Spiritual ori-
gin  of  etheric  substance,  abuses  it  instead  of  recognizing  its  
true  worth  as  the  provider  of  the  phenomenon  of  life.  Pas-
sions,    violent    actions,    uncontrolled    emotions,    unbridled    
desires  and  other  unsought  conditions  cause  a  total  waste  of  
the  holy  supersubstance of Mind  and create  terrible  elementals  
which  multiply evil  and  charge the environment  with  unpleas-
ant  energies.  
For  this  reason,   the  right-thinking  human  being  must  
learn  from  the  beginning how  to  limit  lower  vibrations  of the 
different bodies and how to control the reaction  to these  vibra-
tions  in the three bodies  and their etheric  doubles.  
Jesus  Christ  gives  the  precise  concept   and   degree  of  
inter-dependence  of these  bodies  in  the  parable  of the  woman  
who took some yeast and  mixed  it    into three  measures of flour 
until  they  all  became  leavened  (Matthew  13:33). The  woman  
121 

symbolizes  the  Self-aware  Soul,  the  yeast is  its projection  as  a  
permanent  personality  and  the  measures  of flour  are  our  three  
bodies.  We  must  understand  that  there  is  total  balance  and  
cooperation  between  the  bodies.  
The  human  form,  in  order to  manifest  itself,  needs  these  
three  bodies,  starting  with  the  noetical  and  using  as  bonds  
between  them,  the  etheric  doubles.  
Who,  then,  imposes  the  balance?  Who  rides  in  the  fiery  
chariot  and  tames  the  horses  so  that  they  do  not  gallop  away  
out  of control? 
It   is  Life  itself that  does  this.  It  is  the  human  being  as  a  
Self-aware  Soul,  we  ourselves,  when  we  have  managed  to  
control   our  emotions   and   put   into   proper  order  our  three  
bodies. 
St.  Paul  spoke  of  the  three  bodies  in  his  letters.  'And  I  
knew  a  man,'  he  said,  'caught  up  to  the  third  heaven'  (2  Cor  
12:2).  The  first  heaven  is  of  gross  matter,  which  floats  in  a  
space-place-time  world  governed by Divine  Laws.  The  second  
heaven  is  the  psychic  body  and  the  psychic  world,  with  its  
various  planes  and  sub-planes.  The  third  heaven  is  our  noeti-
cal  body  in  the  noetical  world,  which  is  a  world  of expressed 
forms,  also  composed  of various  planes.  The  fourth  heaven  is  
the world of pure,  unexpressed, forms,  the noetic  state.  
For the purpose  of this  study there are,  in  all,  seven heav-
ens.  We  will  not,  however,  speak  of the  higher  three  now  (for  
it   is  difficult  in  any  context  to  describe  these  heavens  in  the  
limits   of  human   language   and   concepts).   Our  present   aim   
must be  to develop  into the  third and fourth heavens.  We  must  
work  systematically  to  escape  from  earthly  ties  and  enter  into  
the  heavenly  realms.  
122 

This  certainly  does  not  mean  that  earthly  things  will  lose  
their  meaning  for  us.  But  they  will  lose  their  interest  to  us  as  
objects  of  study,  because  we  will  have  absorbed  their  knowl-
edge  and  become  masters  of  the  various  heavens.  We  will  
become  masters  of  the  'phenomenon  of life',  the  lower  three  
heavens,  and  we  will  penetrate  the  inlets  of  the  sea  of  life,  
which  even  now  extends  all  around  us  as  the  formless  noetic  
and  causal  states.  
Life,  however,  is  Absolute  Beingness  Itself,  beyond  all  
universes. 
We  have  spoken  of the  etheric  doubles  of the  three  bod-
ies  and  have  said  that  they  are  the  moulds  within  which  the  
bodies  are  constructed  and  maintained.  The  human  form,  in  
order  to  manifest  itself,  requires  these  three  bodies,  starting  
with   the   noetical   and   using   as   bonds  between  them   their   
etheric  doubles.  
What  is  built  first  is  the  matrix,  which  is  also known  as  
the  permanent  atom.  The  permanent  atom,  which  is  spherical,  
contains  the  shape  of the  human  form  and, just  as  a  seed  con-
tains  the  form  of the  tree  or the  plant to  which  it     gives  rise,  so  
an    etheric  atom  is  the  basis  from  which  the first material  atom  
is   constructed  and  from  which,  furthermore,  the  creation  of  
the  spermatozoa begins. 
From  the  centre  of  each  etheric  atom,  and  using  it  as  a  
mould,  each  material  atom  and  cell  is  built  outwardly.  Natu-
rally,  the  complete  matrix  is  the  Heavenly  Man,  expressing  as  
Its  nature,  the  Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  and  Total  Love  of  
Absolute  Beingness.  From  that  point  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  
Archangelic  Orders  draw  upon  the  power  and  the  wisdom  to  
build  our  gross  material  bodies.  Everything  starts  from  the  
centre  of the  cell  or  atom  and from  there,  using  creative  ether,  
123 

the organs  and  the  whole  material  body  are constructed. 
We  have  creativity  within  the  nucleus  of  every  material  
atom,  by  reason  of the  presence  of  its  etheric  double.  A  simi-
lar  creativity  occurs,  too,  within  the  material  body;   in  the  
sperm,  the  embryo,  the  infant,  the  child  and  the  adult.  Let  us  
separate   the   two   conditions   while   studying   the   interplay   
between  them.  
We  possess  a  complete  etheric  double,  exactly  similar  to  
the  gross  material  body  in  shape.  We  also  have  a  radiance  
around  the  material  body,  which  we  call  the  'health  aura'.  
Whereas   the   etheric   double   of   the   body   is   perfect   and   
unchanging,  and  the  physical  body  should  reflect  this  whole-
ness  and  purity,  the  health  aura  is  a colourful  radiation  of  the  
state  of health  prevailing  in  the  body.  For  those  with  the  abil-
ity  to  see  this  aura  (preferably  a  gift  limited  to  healers)  they  
are  able  to  determine  the  physical  and  emotional  condition  of  
a  personality.  
Illness,  be  it  physical  or  psychic,  is  first  visible  on  the  
health  aura  of  an  individual  even  before  any  pain  or  discom-
fort  is  felt.   Problems  arise  when  the  etheric  double  is  unable  
to   impart enough etheric  vitality  to  a  location  in the  body,  as  a  
result  of   fearful,  aggressive  or  stressful  lifestyles.  The  body  
then  fails  to reflect  the  perfection  of the  etheric  double,  as  the  
health  aura  begins  to  display  signs  of decay  and corruption. 
Now,  if  we  study  the  body  of  a  person  who  is  ill,  we  
shall  see  that  at  a particular  point  of  the  etheric  double  where  
the   sickness   is   located,   neither  the   creative   ether  nor   the   
kinetic ether are  working strongly.  On  the other hand,  we  shall  
notice  that  the  sensate  ether  shows  increased  activity,  giving  
us    the  phenomenon  of  pain.  The  purpose  of  pain  is  to  draw  
our attention  and direct  more  ether to  that  point.  
124 

However,  although  we  find  Total Wisdom  in  the nucleus 
of    every  cell  and  atom,  which  in  their  entirety  compose  the  
complete  etheric  double,  we  often  find  imbalances  and  defi-
ciencies  of etheric  vitality  giving  rise  to  illness  in  the  material,  
psychic  and  noetical  bodies.  
For  it  is  on  our  etheric  double  that  the  phenomenon  of  
pain  relies.  We  can  understand  this  during  anaesthesia,  when  
we  feel  no  pain  because  the  flow  of  sensate  ether  is  cut  off  
from the  suffering  part of our material  body,  corresponding  to  
a  location  on  our   etheric  double.  We  feel  the  phenomenon  of  
pain,  therefore,  in  our  material  body  and  not  in  our  etheric  
double. 
All  in  all,  if  the  currents  of  energy  flowing  through  the  
etheric  double  are  depleted  of  sufficient  supplies  of  etheric  
vitality,   any   sort  of  problem   is   likely  to  occur  within   the   
material   body.   We  characterize  the  type   of  illness   by  the  
symptoms  which  appear in  the  material  body.  Accordingly  we  
proceed  to  diagnose  and  classify  the  illnesses  into  various  
categories. 
What  symptoms  do  we  see?  What  we  see  is  a  lack  or  an  
expansion  of creative ether at the relevant point. This  is  a  sick-
ness  of  the  material  body  and  occurs  when  the  personality,  
which  dwells   in  the  body,  has   wasted  etheric   vitality   (on   
hatred,  anger,  envy,  and  other  unbridled  emotions)  taxing  the  
Holy  Spirit,  Who—in  Its  Total  Wisdom—prevents  further  use  
of    creative  ether  for  the  construction  and  maintenance  of  the  
personality's  health.  
In   a  healthy  human  being  we  see  all  the  organs  working  
in   harmony  in  the  material  body,  each  according  to  the  pur-
pose  for  which  it     was  created.  We  also  see  the  etheric  double  
carrying  out  its own work in those organs,  and the aura is   radi-
125 

ating  around the human body  .  
The  Holy  Spirit  builds  and  maintains  the  gross  material  
body  from  within  every  etheric  cell  and,  in  addition  to  this  
work,  creates,  together  with  the  Archangels,  a completely  per-
fect   material   body,   fit   for   occupation   by   a   Self-aware   
personality. 
Just  as  the  material  body  has  various  organs  serving  one  
purpose  or  another  we  see  certain  etheric  centres  of energy  in  
positions  corresponding  to  those  organs  in  the  gross  material  
body.  These  centres  serve  a  dual  function.  In  one  way,  they  
take  care  of the  maintenance  of the  organs  situated  in  that  part  
of    the  body.  In  another  mode  they  act  as  links  between  the  
material body  of a human personality  and  the  psychic  body,  in  
order to  channel  emotions  and energy,  as  they  arise  as  a result 
of    space-place-time  impressions.  These  points  are  known  as  
etheric  or psycho-noetical  centres.  
We   find   more   active   psychic   centres   situated   in   the   
etheric  double  of the  psychic  body.  Their  petals,  as  we  might  
call  them,  unfold  in  the  etheric  double  of the  psychic  body  as  
'flowers'  appear  on  the  corresponding  centres  of  the  noetical  
body. 
On  the  gross  material  body's  etheric  double,  we  have  
psycho-noetical  centres,  which  we  call  'sacred  discs'.  In  the  
etheric  double  of the  psychic  body  we  have,  once  again,  these  
psycho-noetical  centres,   but  they  are  more  intense   in  their  
activity.  We  call  them  'sacred  spheres'.  Finally,  in  the  etheric  
double  of  the  noetical  body,  there  are  even  more  active  cen-
tres  with  a  wider  concept  of  space  and  time.  St.  John,  in  the  
Revelations, refers to  these as  'stars'  (cf. Rev.  1:16, 20). 
One  sacred  disc  is  located  at  the  lower  end  of the  spine  
at    the  point  where  the  sacrum  is  situated.  It  resembles  a  red  
126 

snake  with  seven  coils  with  its  head  pointing  up  the  spinal  
column.  Yet  although  it     looks  like  a  snake,  it  is  really  of fire. 
It   is  the  primordial  fire  within  both  the  material  body  and  its  
etheric  counterpart,  which  energizes  our existence.  According  
to   the  Scriptures  it  is  the  'flaming  sword  which  turned  every  
way'  of the  Archangel  Michael  (Genesis  3:24),  with  which  the  
first  humans  were  expelled  from  the  Garden  of  Eden  into  the  
worlds  of  separateness.  It  is  not  permitted  to  say  more  about  
this   centre,   because   the   awakening   of  the   primordial   fire   
within  the  material  body  can  burn  up  the  entire  etheric  double  
of    the  human  being  and  result  in  the  death  of  the  material  
body.  Only  high  initiates  should  concern  themselves  with  this  
center. 
Another  sacred  disc,  which  also  belongs  to  the jurisdic-
tion  of the  initiates,  is  situated  near  the  soles  of the  feet.  The  
awakening  of  this  disc  can  attune  the  personality  to  very  low  
vibrations,  which  create   a  hellish  environment.   An  initiate  
may  energize  this  disc  in  circumstances  where  he  wishes  to  
help  entities  who  have  been  cast  down  to  very  low  levels  of  
the psychic  world.  
Another  sacred  disc,  often  termed  the   'root  chakra'>•  
located  in  the  area  of  the  genitals,  is  a  seat  of the  Holy  Spirit  
and  the  Archangels  in  their  creativeness.  This  centre  is  under  
their  wise  care  and  we  should  refrain  from  any  manipulation  
of    it.   Through  procreation,   we   work   (most   of  us   subcon-
sciously)  as  partners  with  the  Archangels  in  co-creation;   a   
great  and  holy  privilege  and  responsibility.  
'  Although  the  sacred disc,  which  is  located at  the  base of the  spine  (therefore  known  to  
some  as  the   'root  chakra'),   and  the  centre   in  the  genitals   are  two   separate,  though  
closely  connected  centres,  they  should  be  regarded  as  one  for  the  purpose  of this  book.  
127 

Higher up is  another central  disc,  which  is  at the  point of 
the  solar  plexus  and  is  the  storehouse  of  vital  energy  and  the  
doorway  to  the psychic  world.  Many  Intelligences  are  at  work  
here.  Under  the  guidance  of sound  teachings,  it     is  permissible  
to   cultivate  this  centre  for work  in healing  and  for responsible 
exosomatosis. 
The  disc  which  is  most important for us  is  centred on the 
heart*.  It  is  the  most  sacred  of  the  discs  and  constitutes  the  
centre  of  self-awareness.  It  is  primarily  the  seat  of the  Logos,  
with  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  Archangels  playing  secondary  
roles  in  the  development  of  self-awareness;  'That  Christ  may  
dwell   in   your  hearts   by   faith;   that   ye,   being   rooted   and   
grounded  in  love...'  (Eph  3:17).  
This  centre  will  develop  naturally  at  the  discretion  of  
the  Logos,  as  we develop  our entire  personality harmoniously. 
We  should  never,  therefore,  practise  any  special  exercises  or  
meditations  which  concentrate  on  the  heart.  The  gentle  and  
slow  purification  of  this  disc  is,  nevertheless,  of  great  impor-
tance to us, because it    leads us to Super-consciousness. 
Situated  in  the  centre  of  the  head  there  is  another  disc  
with  two  centres.  This  is  the  seat  of Logoic  Super-conscious  
self-awareness,  as Love  and Reason. 
Slightly  above  the  liver  and  the  spleen,  we  have  two  
other  power  centres,  which  affect  the  gross  material  body.  
Awakening   these   produces   certain   material   and   psychic   
powers,  which  an  initiate  should  use  for  the  appropriate  pur-
poses.  Further up,  on  the  shoulders,  there  are  two  other sacred 
discs  to be  discussed  in more  advanced work. 
The  Chaldeans  and  other  mystery  schools  have  called  
the   etheric   centers   by   different   names.   They   are   linked   
together  by  various  strong  forces  of which  the  initiate  must  be  
128 

in  command,  so that he  can be  in complete mastery  of his tem-
ple.  These  forces,  therefore,  must  be  approached  with  awe,  
because  they  can  cause  as  much  difficulty  as  benefit.  And  let  
us    not  forget  that  any  power,  however much  good  it    can  bring,  
can  also  give  rise  to just  as  much  evil  if the  hands  which  are  
directing  it     are not clean. 
Let us  stand firm in  the good! 
129 

CHAPTER  THIRTEEN  
OUR  THREE  BODIES  
For  we  know  that  if our  earthly  house  of  this  tabernacle  were  
dissolved,  we  have  a  building  of God,  an  house  not  made  with  
hands,  eternal in  the  heavens.                                         (2  Cor.5:l)  
I  knew  a  man  in  Christ  above fourteen  years  ago,  (whether  in  
the  body,  I  cannot  tell;  or  whether  out  of the  body,  I cannot  tell:  
God  knoweth;)  such  as  one  caught  up  to  the  third  heaven.  
(2    Cor. 12:2) 
It  is  sown  a  natural  body;  it  is  raised  a  spiritual  body.  There  is  
a  natural body,  and there  is  a  spiritual body.           (1  Cor.l5:44)  
The  cycle  of  possibility  of  the  human  form  includes  the  
projection  of  bodies  as  vehicles  so  that  experience  may  be  
gathered  in  the  worlds  of  separation.  Corresponding  to  the  
worlds,  we  know  that  we  live  in  a  noetical,  a  psychic  and  a  
material  body,  with  the  etheric  doubles  serving  as  links  and  
lifelines  between these  divisions.  
While  it  may  seem  to  the  unawakened  that  matter  is  all  
and   everything,   and   that   our   material   existence   is   a   full   
expression  of life,  we  know  otherwise  as  Researchers.  While  
we  reside  in  the  gross  material  world,  we  simultaneously  live  
in   greater,  more  refined  worlds.  Indeed,  we  know  that  our  
sojourn  into  the  worlds  of  separation  represents  but  a  small  
ray  of  our  Real  Self  which  lives  in  the  Self-sufficiency  of  
Absolute Beingness,  having  never left our Home. 
131 

Humanity  lives  within three  bodies  at the  same  time  as  it  
lives  in  the  gross  material  world.  This  is  true  for  our  awake  
state,  and  even  more  so  in  a  sleep  state  (while  on  exosomato-
sis).  After the  dissolution  of the  material  body  ('death'),  when  
a  human  being  leaves  behind  and  casts  off the  material  body,  
he   continues to live in the psychic and noetical  bodies.  
At  the  point  of  the  second  death  the  psychic  body  is  
assimilated  by  the  noetical  body.  At  this  stage  a  human  lives  
only  in  the  noetical body,  until  it    is  set  aside  and  the personal-
ity  withdraws into the permanent atom.  Soon after, most begin 
their  descents,  reclothing  themselves  with  noetical,  psychic  
and  gross  material  substance  for new  incarnations.  
Although  we  are  able  to  see  the  psychic  and  noetical  
bodies  as  one  with  the  material  body,  they  are,  in  fact,  separ-
ate  and  can,  independently  of each  other,  be  used  by  the  self-
aware  personality  as  a  means  of being  projected  into,  and  liv-
ing  in  the  relevant worlds  and planes. 
The  distinctions  between  these  different  bodies  are  evi-
dent  in  their  expressions   in  the  differing  dimensions.   The   
gross  material  body,  like  gross  matter  itself,  belongs  to  the  
world  of  three  dimensions.  The  psychic  body  exists  in  the  
world  of  four  dimensions  and  does  not,  consequently,  con-
form   to   the   material   conditions   of  place-time.   It  operates  
within  its  own  space-place-time  atmosphere.  Furthermore,  the  
noetical  body,  while  it  is  in  the  material  and  psychic  bodies,  
exists  simultaneously  in  the  world  of  five  dimensions.  The  
conditions  there  are  also  beyond  traditional  concepts  of space-
place-time.   Even   so,   the   noetical   body   is   also  within  the  
events which for us form the material  and psychic  worlds.  
We have  a material  body,  in  which  some  form  of materi-
alization  occurs.  However,  as  soon  as  the  personality  is  with-
132 

drawn  from  the  body,  that  body  is  dissolved.  The  material  
body,  whether  as  a  short-term  materialization  (through projec-
tion)  or  as  an  actual  body  which  lasts  a  whole  lifetime,  obeys  
the  Laws  of  three  dimensions  and  can  only  occupy  one  posi-
tion  in  space.  
Now  for  the  psychic  body:  let  us  suppose  that  we  have  
someone  who  can  project  an  elemental  of  himself  thousands  
of   miles  away.  In  that  elemental  there  is  psychic  and  noetical  
substance,  linked  by  an  etheric  double, just  as  there  is  in  our  
three  bodies.  
A  clairvoyant,  thousands  of miles  away  from  where  the  
elemental  has  been  projected,  will  accept  the  elemental  as  the  
human being who has created,  given  birth  to,  and  projected  it.  
It  is  a complete psychic  body,  this  elemental,  which  resembles  
the  psychic  body  of  its  creator.  Material  concepts  of  space-
place-time  are  suspended  and  the  two  bodies  communicate  
telepathically. 
The  same  work  can be performed  by  an  initiate  who pos-
sesses  super-conscious   self-awareness   and   can  project,   not   
one,  but  many  elementals  of himself for  a  particular  service  to  
many  parts  of  the  globe,  each  many  thousands  of  miles  apart  
from  the  other.  A  clairvoyant  is  able  to  see  them  in  their enti-
rety,  since  we  have  said  that  all  of  them  are  linked  together,  
and  to  their creator. 
Something  similar can  also  occur with  the  noetical  body,  
which  a  self-aware  personality  with  the  requisite  degree  of  
development  may  project.  In  the  world  of  five  dimensions  
everything  is  clearer.  The  difference  between  the  worlds  of  
four  and  five  dimensions  is  as  great  as  that  which  exists  
between  the  three  and four dimensions. 
In   making  these  distinctions,  we  must  realize  that  there  
133 

are  vast  differences  and  we  must  not  expect  to  understand  
conditions  easily  which  belong  to  the  four  and  five  dimen-
sions,    particularly    as    such    comparisons    are    chronically    
affected by  our place-time  concept  of the  material  world.  
The  psychic  body  is  what  we  and  the  Archangels  help  
build  and  use.   Its  quality   and   substance  correspond  to  the  
quality  of  the  substance  which  the  permanent  atom  has  gath-
ered  together  from  previous  experiences.  Of  course,  the  per-
manent personality,  which is our Self-aware  Soul   in the lower 
levels  of life,  is  completely pure  in  essence.  What varies  is  the  
purity  of  the  substance  which  surrounds  the  permanent  per-
sonality,  its  clothing  so  to  speak,  as  composed  of experiences 
collected by  a person in this  life  and from previous lives. 
Upon  the  three  bodies,  the  permanent  personality  builds  
the  temporary  personality.  The  temporary  personality  is  the  
sum  of  the  so-called  elementals,  that  is,  thought-forms  and  
desire-forms  which  a  human  being  projects  and  receives  back  
again  over  the  course  of time.  The  quality  of the  present  per-
sonality  is  precisely  the  quality  of the  psycho-noetical  matur-
ity  of each  person.  
The  phenomenon  of  'death'  consists  of  the  discarding,  
by  a  human  being,  of the  material  body,  followed  by  the  dis-
solution  of  the  etheric  double.  The  etheric  double  either  dis-
solves  slowly  as  the  material  body  disintegrates,  or  immed-
iately  as  in  the  case  of  cremation.  The  etheric  double,  upon  
separation  of  its  body,  returns  to  the  Cosmic  Consciousness.  
Because  the  etheric  double  only  serves  the  Selfhood,  and  does  
not  carry  it  (as  the  bodies  do),  it  is  expendable  much  in  the  
same  way  a  snake's  skin  is  after  it     has  been  shed.  The  human  
being remains  intact,  however,  as  a permanent personality. 
How  is  our  psychic  body  constructed?  It  is  built  of psy-
134 

chic  material under the  supervision  of the Holy  Spirit,  our per-
manent  personality  and  our Guardian  Archangel.  
The  psychic  body,  composed  of  finer  etheric  matter,  is  
built  cell  by  cell  in  the  mould  of  the  psychic  body's  etheric  
double.  The  smallest  detail  of  the  material  body  also  exists  
with  exactitude  in the  psychic  body,  with  the  exception  of any 
wounds  or mutilations  which  the  material  body  may  have  suf-
fered.  Consequently,  when  a  human  personality  finds  itself in 
the  psychic  body,  whether  as  a  result  of an  unconscious  exos-
omatosis   during   sleep,   or   in   conscious   exosomatosis,   or   
because  of  so-called  'death',  it  is  possible  for  the  personality  
to   be  unaware  of  the  change,  because  it  still  has  a  body  of  
exactly  the  same form  and shape. 
With what  are the psychic  and noetical bodies clothed?  It  
is   our  thoughts  and  desires  which  provide  whatever  appear-
ances  we  adopt.  In  consequence,  we  shall  see  our  psychic  
body  and  our noetical  body  clothed  in  a  way  according  to  the  
circumstances  that  we have created  for ourselves. 
Only  in the  gross  material  world  is  there  any difficulty in 
dressing  the body.  In the  psychic  world,  there  is no problem  at  
all,  because  there  one  has  only  to  think  of this  or that clothing 
and  the  material  takes   shape  obeying  thought  at  once.   Of   
course,  the  desire  and  the  material  precede  the  creation  of  
human  clothing  in  the  material  world  as  well,  but  the  creation  
needs  time  and  many  other  things  in  addition  to  the  wish  and  
the  material.  
Humanity,  in the  material  world,  appears  to  differ in  no  
respect  from  humanity  in  the  psychic  world, just  as  a  human  
being  during projection  in the  sleep  state  does  not  differ from 
a  human  being  in  the  awakened  material  body.  There  is  no  
simple  standard of comparison for life  in  the  psychic  world.  
135 

Let  us  remember  a  very  vivid  dream  which  we  had  last  
night.  Let  us  compare  this  experience  with  a  memory  of  what  
happened   a  few  hours  before  we   actually   fell   asleep.   We   
extract  the  past  from  our memory.  The  past  is  our  memory  of  
yesterday.  The  memory  of the  self just before  falling  asleep  is  
exactly  the  same  as  the  self we  recognise  at  this  moment;  and  
our  waking  surroundings,  which  we  think  of  as  reality,  are  
nothing  more  than  events  and  experiences  within  the  concepts  
of   time  and  place,  which,  in  turn,  will  become  the  past.  Simi-
larly,  in  the  dream,  our  self was  the  same  alive,  well-dressed  
person  as  in  what  we  call  reality.  Is  there  any  difference?  We  
would  say  no.  In  both  cases,  our  personality  gains  experience,  
which   can   be   drawn   out  of  our  memory   at   any   moment.   
Which  of  the  two  perceptions  is  the  more  real?  Both  of  them  
possess   the   degree   of   comprehended   reality   which   their   
respective  roles  demand.  
The  material  body  is  constructed  according  to  the  Causal  
Law  of  Heavenly  Man.  The  moment  a  human  being  is  born,  
the  material  body,  under  the  supervision  of  the  Holy  Spirit  
and  by  means  of creative  ether,  begins  to  develop  in  a  normal  
and  beautiful  way  without  the  need  for  any  temporary  person-
ality  to  look  after  it.  Nevertheless,  a  temporary  personality  
also begins to unfold. 
What  is  this personality?  If we examine  the  gross  materi-
al    bodies  of  ten  children,  we  shall  note  that  their  little  bodies  
develop,  materially,  without  substantially  differing  from  one  
another.  If these  babies  are  in  good  health,  their  development  
is   subject to the  same physical  laws.  
In   spite  of this,  we  shall  very  shortly  find  that  they  have  
different  personalities.  Why?  Because  the  personality  is  not  
the   result  of the  food  consumed  by  a  body.  We  have  spoken  
136 

of   previous  incarnations.  The  newly  born  baby  has  a  body  of  
gross  matter  built  around  what  we  call  the  permanent  atom,  
which   contains   both   the   psychic   and   noetical   permanent   
atoms.   Upon  this  the  Lords  of  Destiny  have  inscribed  the  
direction which this new  human  life  should  take.  Of course,  as  
well  as  what  they  have  written,  free  will  also  exists,  together  
with   all   the  opportunities   and  the  freedom  to  change   and   
develop in  a  better way. 
Where,  then,  is  the  inscription?  Is  it     on  the  psychic  and  
noetical  bodies,  which  are  complete  and  used  as  archetypes,  
or   on  the  as yet formless psycho-noetical mass? 
All  experience  of  any  sort,  all  the  old  debts,  all  the  giv-
ing  and  receiving,  are  registered  on  this  a  formless  mass.  The  
quality  of this  psycho-noetical  mass  corresponds  to  the  quality  
of    previous  incarnations.   The  permanent  personality,  which  
re-cognizes  the  archetypes  with  total  wisdom,  begins  the  con-
struction  of  a  new  temporary  personality  with  this  data  and  
proceeds  towards  perfection  from  that  basis.  This  is  how  a  
human  being's  personality  begins.  
So,  we  have  a  self,  which has  an  inclination  to  learn  (the  
present  personality).   We  have   another  self,   which   already   
knows  perfection  (the  permanent  personality).  When  our  pre-
sent  self achieves  perfection  within  the permanent  personality,  
and  becomes  one  with  the  Self-aware  Soul,  then  we  have  
reached  Self-Realization  within  our Individuation. 
The  Selfhood  of  an  individual  can  be  likened  to  a  single  
length  of  rope.  We  find  at  one  pole,  the  harmonious  Holy  
Monadic    Spirit-Ego-Being    in    at-one-ment    with    absolute    
Beingness.  At  the  other  pole  we  find  our  struggling  present-
day  personality,  so  often  frayed  and  unravelled.  Somewhere  
along  the  line  we  have  a  midpoint  where  we  place  the  perma-
137 

nent  personality.  We  now  see  the  Selfhood  as  but  one  self,  
characterized   by   a  number  of  expressions.   What   is   to   be   
achieved  is  that  these  two  ends  should  meet,  in  order  to  give  
us    the  eternal  circle,  without  end  or  beginning.  So  let  us  not  
forget  that  each  expression  is  vital  to  the  self  as  a  whole.  
When  the  circle  is  complete  'the  corruptible  has  put  on  incor-
ruptibility  and  the  mortal  immortality'.  
A  sculptor takes  clay  in his  hands  and,  with  his  imagina-
tion,  produces  the  finished  statue.  This  is  how  we  shape  the  
formless mass  of psychic  material  which  we have to  transform  
into the  psychic  body.   We have  the mass,  but  we  do  not  have  
the  hands  nor  the  imagination.  What  provides  us  with  these  
two  things  is  the  noetical  body.  The  psychic  material  cannot  
be    shaped without  the help  of a noetical  model.  Thus  the  noet-
ical  body  is  what we use  to construct our psychic body. 
Within  the  psycho-noetical  regions,  we  receive  impres-
sions  from  the  physical  world,  which  then  initiate  vibrations  
of   the  psycho-noetical  substance.  These  stimulations  are  what  
become  our  thoughts,  our  desires,  our emotions  and  our  reac-
tions.  We  must master them  with  reason  and  right-thinking,  so  
as   not to become their slaves  and  servants.  Desire is an intense 
vibration  of  psycho-noetical   substance,   which  needs   to  be  
placed under the  control  of our higher faculties. 
Much  can  be  accomplished  by  'looking  within'*.  Noth-
ing  must escape  our attention.  Our present  personality  must  be  
under  constant  control.  And  when  we  say  control,  we  mean  
study  with  understanding,  not  in  a  mood  of masochism.  When  
we  know  the  nature  of  desires  and  passions,  we  can  easily  
tame  them  and  place  them  under  the  control  of   reason.  Then  
we  can  refine,  with  the  help  of  psycho-noetical  substance,  a  
self-aware  personality,  which  will  gradually  become  identi-
138 

fied with the  Self-aware  Soul.  
At  this  point,  an  appropriate  symbol  can  be  invoked.  
When  we  see  an  icon  of  St.  George,'  we  call  to  mind  the  way  
in   which  he  saved  the  princess.  Let  us  examine  the  symbol-
ism.  The  white horse  symbolizes  our gross  material  body.  The  
Saint  is  the  symbol  of our  self as  a  Self-aware  Soul.  His  spear  
represents  the  vibration  of  Mind—thought,  intelligence  and  
will-power.   The  dragon   is   seductive  desires   and  passions.  
Water  is  etheric  vitality,  which  is  essential  for  creation,  but  
which  is  used  up  and  evaporated  by  desire  and  anger.  And  
finally  the princess  is  our present personality,  who  is  saved  by  
our Inner self—the Self-aware Soul. 
1
  See  the icon  reproduced  on  the  back cover. 
139 

CHAPTER  FOURTEEN  
THE  RELATIONSHIP  BETWEEN  OUR  TEMPORARY  
AND  PERMANENT  PERSONALITIES  
Every  cell,  every  atom  of  the  gross  material  body  has  a  
psychic  and  noetical  counterpart.  The  Holy  Spirit,  after  con-
structing  the  two  higher bodies,  then  builds  the  gross  material  
body  in accordance with Total Wisdom,  atom  by  atom,  cell  by  
cell,  using  the  psychic   and  noetical  etheric  doubles  as  the  
moulds. 
Apart  from  these  basic  bodies,  there  is  another  formless  
body,  small  in  size,  which  is  composed  of psychic  matter  and  
is   centred  within  the  human  being's  subconscious.  There  is  
also  a  corresponding  small  noetical  body,  composed  of form-
less  noetical  matter.  
These  two  little bodies  are  more or less  the  same  in most 
normal  human  beings.  Later,  of  course,  one  personality  may  
develop  more  than  another.  In  this  way  we  can  have  the  best  
of    artists  and  poets  who,  however,  show  a  lack  of  rationality.  
In   another  case,  we  may  find  someone  who  cultivates  his  
small   noetical   body   to   develop   a   satanic   intellect,   while   
appearing  to  be  poor  in  sensitivity.  We  often  find  such  star-
tling  opposites  among  distinguished  scientists  or  artists  and  
we categorise  them  under the  general mantle  of eccentricity. 
These  two  bodies  assume  the  basic  form  of  an  egg,  but  
when   they   are   vibrating   violently   under  the   influence   of   
141 

strong  emotions,   they   take   on  various   other  shapes.  Their  
colour  too  corresponds  to  the  emotions  and  thoughts  of  the  
self-aware  personality.  
We  should  say,  therefore,  that  these  shapeless  bodies,  
which  are  largely  situated  in  our  subconscious,  are  what  we  
have  entitled our  present  day personality. 
This  personality  is  of  incorruptible  substance  (as  it  is  
made  of  Mind),  although  it  seems  to  be  corruptible  and  mor-
tal.  The  temporary  personality,  in  the  average  human,  whose  
thoughts  are  at  a  low  level,  is  a  shapeless  mass  of  psycho-
noetical  matter.  By  Grace  it  lives  within  the  three  bodies,  as  
the  Holy  Spirit  watches  over  together  with  the  permanent  per-
sonality   and   the   Guardian   Archangel.   The   personality   is   
holy—part   of  the   greater  Selfhood—and   it   is   destined   to   
become  identified  with  Absolute  Beingness.  
If   we  think  of  the  permanent  personality  as  a  loving  
mother,  who  cares  for  and  brings  up  her  child  till  it  is  old  
enough  to  develop  its  own  powers,  the  temporary  personality  
certainly  fits  the  part  of  the  developing  child,  whether  it  is  
good  or naughty. 
The  permanent  personality,  however,  is  present  in   all   
three  bodies  and  principally  acts  as  their  overseer.  On  many  
occasions  it  intervenes,  when  it  generates  stings  of  consci-
ence—via  the  subconscious—in  the  present  personality.  
Now,  which  of the  two  are  we?  The  temporary  personal-
ity  or  the  permanent  personality?  When  is  the  ego's  point  of  
understanding  in  the  one  and when  in  the other? 
There  is  a  continuous  struggle  in  humanity,  especially  
when  the temporary  personality  is  at  a very  low  level  of devel-
opment  and  is  strongly  influenced  by  the  attractions  of  the  
142 

material  world  (egoism,  illogicality,  insatiability  and  so  on).  
The  war  within  the  sphere  of  material  possessions  is  continu-
ous  and  inexorable.  
Our  permanent  personality  is  usually  at  battle  stations  
within  our  temporary  personality;   at  war  with  the  mass  of  
place-time  contrasts.  
Nevertheless,  there  are  moments  when  the  ego,  under the 
weight  of  this  struggle,  seeks  refuge  in  its  true  self,  which  is  
the  permanent personality,  and  stays  there for  a while  in peace 
and  tranquility.  
This  is  why the right-thinking  human must choose recon-
ciliation rather than confrontation.  Our present  day  personality  
very  often  talks  nonsense  and  rebels.  Sooner  or  later  it  gets  
tired  and  surrenders  to  the  permanent  personality,  and  is  then  
disposed  to  listen  to  its  counsel.  At  such  moments,  we  under-
stand  that  part  of  our  personality  which  has  been  roused  to  
passion  and  anger  is  not  representative  of us  and  that,  instead  
of   fighting  against it,  we  should  correct it    and assimilate  it.  
Thus,  we  appear  to  have  two  selves,  one  of  which  col-
lects  and  interprets,  while  the  other rules  and  corrects.  In real-
ity  we are but  a single  Selfhood.  
Because  of  this,  the  permanent  personality,  acting  with  
great  sagacity,  removes  the  temporary  personality  (in  subcon-
scious  exosomatosis)  from  the  material  body  at  certain  times,  
so    as  to give  an opportunity,  both  to  itself,   to  the  Holy  Spirit,  
and  to  the  Holy  Archangels  to  repair  damage  to  the  gross  
material  body.  This  work  takes  place  beneath  consciousness,  
usually  during  sleep.  
Knowledge  provides  the  motive  for  the  creation  of  the  
requisite  will,  which  together  with  right-thinking  will  develop  
143 

the  small,  shapeless psychic  and  noetical  bodies,  until  they  are  
assimilated  with  the  permanent  personality.  At  that  point  the  
permanent  personality  will  become  one   with  the  temporary  
personality  as  a  single unity. 
In   this  state  of harmonization,  our  self can  easily  accom-
plish  conscious  exosomatosis  and  can  make  use  of  its  newly  
refined  and  unified  psychic  and  noetical  bodies,  as  indepen-
dent projections  into  the psychic  and  noetical  worlds.  
Such  a  Being,  furthermore,  has  entered  the  worlds  of  
wisdom  and  manipulates  matter  with  total  power,  transcend-
ing  the  restrictions  of place  and time. 
144 

CHAPTER  FIFTEEN  
ELEMENTALS 
In  this  chapter we  will  concern ourselves  with the  way  of  
using  the  supersubstance  of  Mind  in  the  creation  of  psycho-
noetical  images.  Such  images  arise  from  the  shaping  of  Mind  
into forms  that we  call  'elementals'.  
Consciousness  begets  matter.  We  have  said  that  every-
thing  is made  of substance  and  supersubstance,  the holy Mind, 
at    varying  rates  of  vibration.  The  Logos,  the  Holy  Spirit  and  
the   Archangels   of  the   elements,   expressing   Divine   Super   
Intelligence,  Love  and  Life,  have  shaped  etheric  matter  into  
vast  universes.  
The  Archangels,  expressing  Total  Love,  Power  and  Wis-
dom,  have  painted  for  us  a  most  lovely  landscape  that  we  
know  as  the  gross  material,  psychic  and  noetical  worlds.  For  
our  pleasure  and  nourishment,  they  have  provided  us  with  the  
animal,  plant  and  mineral  kingdoms.  For  our  protection  and  
our  company,  the  Archangels  have  created  angels  and  nature  
spirits.  These  paradises  are  the  consciously  constructed  ele-
mentals  of our brothers,  the  Archangels  in  an  unceasing  medi-
tation.  All  that  is  known  to  us,  and  all  that  is  knowable,  is  a  
result  of consciousness  shaped  and  solidified  (the  holy  Mind).  
So  we  see  it  as  a  great  truth  in  the  higher  levels  of  life  that  
consciousness  is  the mother of matter. 
What  about  our  experience  and  our  existence?  Are  we  
145 

the  product  of  the  social-material  world  that  surrounds  us,  as  
the  social  scientists  would have  us  believe?  What do  we  make  
of   such  claims  in  light  of our  understanding  of elementals? 
Our  present  personalities,   that   is   to   say   the   vehicles   
through  which  most  of us  experience  and  interpret  the  worlds,  
are   compositions   of   various   elementals   born   either   sub-
consciously,   self-consciously  or  super-consciously.  Elemen-
tals  having  once  been  created  and  projected,  gain  a  material  
existence   of  their  own.   Upon   still   closer  examination,   we   
learn  that  each  elemental  owns  a  psychic  and  a  noetical  coun-
terpart,  which  inherits  the  intentions  of its  creator.  
Life  as  we  know  it  in  gross  matter  is  how  we  ourselves  
fashion   Mind  supersubstance  coupled with  the  communal  and  
global  environments  that have  been  pre-shaped  around us. 
In   this  way  we  create  different  conditions  in  and  around  
us,  which  can  approach  the  likeness  of  paradises  or  hells,  or  
stand  somewhere  in  between,  which  is  what  Catholics  call  
purgatory.  We  each  live  in  a  shell,  more  or  less  permeable,  of  
our own  design.  
Just  as  the  gross  material  body  consists  of  many  cells,  
organised  into  a  working  whole,  so  our   personality  consists  
of    a  network  of  interdependent  psycho-noetical  images.  The  
cells  of our  personality,  as  we  might  call  them,  are  precisely,  
one  by  one,  the  elementals  which  we  create  and  project  as  a  
result of our desires  and  weaknesses,   strengths  and  virtues.  
With  every   thought,   each   glance,   idea,   distraction  or  
feeling  we  create  elementals.  Even  as  we  sleep,  we  are  emit-
ting elementals  that  will affect us  and those  around us. 
The  elementals  are  emitted  with  an  intensity  correspond-
ing  to  the  strength  of  the  desires  which  gave  birth  to  them.  
146 

When  they  have  reached  their  goal  and  served  their  purpose,  
they  return  to  their  creator  to  be  projected  once  again  with  
ever increasing  power.  This procedure  is  repeated many  times,  
creating  within  our  personality,  either  a  terrible  environment  
of    darkness  (if  the  elementals  are  of  low  degree)  or  a  strong  
atmosphere  of love  (if they  are  good  thought-desires).  
In   the  same  way  as  we  can  poison  the  material  body  by  
consuming  harmful  food,  or  can  cleanse  it  by  improving  the  
way  we  care  for  it,  so  we  poison  or  cleanse  our personalities. 
This  is  how  human  character evolves. 
But  what  is  character,  and  what  is  its  relationship  with  
our   personality?   We   have   said   that   our   material   body   is   
something  which  is  in  a  constant  state  of  change.  Substance  
enters  it  and  other  substance  is  discarded.  Orthodox  science  
tells  us  that  with  the passing  of every  seven  years,  not  a  single  
cell  remains  from  the  body  of seven  years  prior.  We  have  the  
opportunity  to  shape  our  bodies  and  health  in  this  constant  
process  of renewal. 
The  same  thing happens  with  our personality.  Substance  
is   taken  in  and  substance  is  discarded.  With  the  production  
and  reproduction  of elementals  we  build  and  rebuild  our  per-
sonality.  Here,  too, we create  health or illness,  contentment or 
dissatisfaction,  and  sow  peace  or unrest. 
For  most  of us  the  construction  of our personality  is  per-
formed  subconsciously,  as  we  let desires  and emotions  dictate  
the  character  of  the  personality.  Let  us  recognize  the  gift  we  
have,  to  create  and  form  the  holy  supersubstance  Mind,  into  
heavens  and  hells.  In  a  manner  not  unrelated  to  the  Archan-
gels,  we  have  been  given  the  authority  and  the  responsibility  
to   shape  Mind  into form.  They  shape the heavens  without,  we  
the  heavens  within.  
147 

We  can  identify  various  types  of  elementals.   Some   spring   
from  inside  the  personality,  others  are  drawn  from  the  outside  
environment.   We  either  create  elementals   with  our  desire-
emotions  and  thought-emotions;  or  our  personality  vibrates  at  
a  frequency  common  to  a  collection  of  elementals  of  a  like  
kind  and  then  attracts  these  elementals.  The  latter  are  the  so-
called  'group  elementals'  that  have  been  cultivated  over  the  
centuries  by  the  perpetuation  of common  beliefs  and  actions.  
They  can  be  either  benign  or  malicious  in  intent.  Our  person-
alities,  whether  weak  and  ill-natured  or  strong  and  compas-
sionate,  will  activate  these  group  elementals.  Once  activated  
they  will  cling  to  the  host  personality,  affecting  emotions,  
thoughts  and  actions.  
When  such  group  elementals  are  particularly  aggressive  
they  can  control  our  energy  centres  in  a  phenomenon  similar  
to   possession.  Conversely,  should  they  be  benign  and  loving  
we  might  experience  a  sensation  of  great  inspiration  or  even  
ecstasy. 
The  majority  of  the  elementals  we  house  are  intelligent  
and  demanding.  They  can  force  the  personality  to  act  in  a cer-
tain  manner  which  creates  the  conditions  for  the  elemental  to  
be    satiated  and  renewed.  If  we  are  filled  with  elementals  of  
greed,  envy  and  hatred,  these  elementals  will  dictate  to  our  
personality  actions  and  behaviours  that  will  lead  to  great  dis-
agreements  and  brawls,  not  to  mention  hellish  inner  dissatis-
faction.  If  we  are  compassionate  and  peaceful  in  nature,  our  
elementals  will  lead  us  into  situations  where  we  can  be  of  
some  help  and  service.  
Consequently,  in  spite  of  it  being  accepted  that  we  do  
not  always  have  full  control  over the  condition  of our material 
body,  in  the  case  of  our  personality  the  responsibility  is  ulti-
148 

mately  exclusively  our own. 
If  we  have  constructed  a  weak  personality,  we  inevitably  
form   centres  of attraction  which  draw  to us  the  corresponding  
elementals  that  others  have  created  or  are  creating  around  us,  
which  are  hovering  in  the  psycho-noetical  atmosphere.   But   
even in  this  case,  it    is  we who have  the  responsibility,  because  
we  attract  and  assimilate  only  those  vibrations  that  resonate  
with  ourselves.  We  cannot  accuse  other  people,  or  the  condi-
tions  which  prevail  around  us,  because  the  acceptance  and  
assimilation  of these  elementals  is  purely  our  own  choice  and  
responsibility. 
All  around  us  there  are  human  beings  who  live  in  ignor-
ance  and darkness,  as  well  as others who make  sensible use of 
Mind.  There  are,  then,  in our communal  psycho-noetical  envi-
ronment  good   and  bad  elementals.   There   are   angels—and   
demons  too!  It is   for us to create the  magnetic pole which will 
attract  the  one  and  repel  the  other.  No  demon  can  bother  any  
human  being who  does  not resonate  with  it.  
On  the  other  hand,  someone  who  is  labouring  under  a  
particular   guilt,   can   temporarily   be   helped   by   an   angelic   
being,  or through  the  mediation  of other  humans  who  pray  for  
him,  or  by  the  expression  of Divine  Mercy.  Prayer  is  the  pro-
cess  of shaping  and emitting loving  elementals.  
This  help,  however,  is  relative,  for  if the  person  in  ques-
tion  has  not  matured  psycho-noetically,  the  benefit  derived  
will  be  temporary.  To  be  helped,  the  person  must  use  this  
beneficial  intervention  as  the  starting  point  for  right-thinking  
and  development.  
Let  us  not  cast  blame  on  our  surroundings.  There  are  
many  elementals  around  us.  There  are  elementals,  for  exam-
ple,  of those  we  call  alcoholics,  many  of whom  try  to  present  
149 

themselves  as  victims  of  society.  Such  people  are  responsible  
for their sorry  state,  since  they  have  created  or drawn  to  them-
selves  very  strong  elementals,  which  take  great  will-power  to  
dis-energize.  Yet the same  elementals  surround  us  all.  
A  common  misperception  prevails  these  days  in  popular  
psychology.  Many  psychotherapists  believe  that  in  order for  a  
patient  to  recover  he  must  relive  certain  emotions  and  events,  
venting memories  and  frustrations  that have been  plaguing  the  
personality.  In  this  process  of  'letting  the  steam  out',  more  
often  than  not  the  elementals  surrounding  a  memory,  rather  
than  being  weakened,  are  revitalized  by  the  attention  with  
which  they  are  served.  This  method  is  counter-productive—  
except in  a few cases—to the client's recovery  as  it     lends  only  
more  energy  to the problems. 
Elementals  cannot  be  destroyed.  Once  an  elemental  has  
been  created  it  will  continue  to  exist  in  either  an  active  state  
(when  filled  with  etheric  vitality  from  a  personality)  or  in  a  
dormant  state  (deprived  of thought  power,  lying  in  waiting  in  
the  Cosmic  Consciousness).  Inasmuch  as  our personalities  are  
composed   both   quantitatively   and  qualitatively  of  these   ele-
mentals,  in  order  to  rid  ourselves  of  certain  elementals  we  
must  be  prepared  to  replace  elementals  which  are  a  nuisance,  
with more  beneficial ones.  When  one elemental is  driven out a 
vacuum remains  which can  be occupied  by  a new elemental  of  
any nature.  It    is   vital, therefore,  to fill such voids  with elemen-
tals  that  serve  a constructive purpose  within  the  personality.  
We  see  why  it    is difficult for  personalities  to change  too  
much,  too  quickly  as  each  personality  is  composed  of  a  rela-
tively   balanced   and   interdependent   network   of  elementals.  
Suddenly  to  remove  either large  elementals,  or  a collection  of  
elementals  of a like  kind,  can  seriously  de-stabilize  an  individ-
150 

ual,  leading  even  to  madness.  The  work  of dis-energizing  ele-
mentals  must be  slow  and  steady  with  much  resolve.  
Elementals  can  never  be  defeated  in  a  direct  struggle.  
We  believe  that  in  order to move  beyond  the chains  of the  past  
it   is  best  to  recognize  their  source—using  reason—and  then  
work to replace  and  transcend  them.  We  need  to  let go  of,  and  
not  dwell  on,  past  events.  In  letting  go  of  the  past  (which  is  
behind  us  and  unchangeable)  we  dis-energize  the  elementals  
that  weigh  us  down,  depriving  them  of  their  life-blood.  We  
can  then  live  unfettered  in  the  present.  Let  today  belong  to  
today,   and   not   the   pull   of   yesterday,   nor   the   push   of   
tomorrow. 
All  of  us  move  in  a  psycho-noetical  atmosphere  which  
contains  the  entirety  of  the  corruption  of  past  epochs  as  well  
as    that  of  today.  At  the  same  time,  however,  this  atmosphere  
also contains  the  good  which  is  being  done  at the  present time 
and  which  has  been  done  by  the  human  race  throughout  all  
ages. 
The  holy  supersubstance  Mind  is  all  around  and  within  
us.  It is    in  the  hands   of our temporary  personality  as  a gift for 
its    development.   But  this  personality  very  often  abuses  it,  
instead  of  using  it,  and  changes  the  purity  of Mind  into  a  foul  
swamp  of  egoism,  malice,  hatred,  lies  and  harmful  fantasies.  
Does  anyone  pause  to  consider...'All  right  you  can  deceive  
others,  but how can  you  deceive  yourself?'  
Human  beings  must  first  of  all  be  honest  with  them-
selves   and   in   the   second  place   they   must   love   the   truth.   
Humans  have  their  consciousness  in  a  sea  of  falsehood  and  
often  like  to  make  others  suffer,  not  understanding  that  by  
doing  so they harm themselves twice  as much  as their victims. 
The  Cosmic  Consciousness  is  teeming  with  elementals  
151 

of    every   grade   and   design.   As   co-creators   with   the   Holy   
Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  we  contribute  to  the  quality  of the 
Cosmic   Consciousness   according   to   thoughts,   desires   and   
emotions  we  generate  and regenerate.  This  is  part  of the  inter-
dependence   of  everything   and   everybody.   When   we   first   
begin  to  understand  how   we   contribute   to  the  welfare   of   
humanity—and  far  greater—Creation,  by  the  construction  of  
productive,  life  giving  elementals,  we  have  indeed  made  a  
great  step  in our development. 
Instead  of  hatred  and  conflict,  we  must  cultivate  love  
and  harmony.  We  must  look  upon  ourselves  as  healers  and  on  
all  those  around  us  as  friends  who  may  need  help.  We  must  
approach  them,  seek  to  recognize  their  psychic  wounds  and  
help  return  them  to  wholeness.  This  is  the  only  way  to  create  
good  elementals  around  us,  which  will  heal  and  cleanse  the  
environment.  The  struggle  for development takes  place  in  this  
environment  and the quality  of it    is  of great  importance.  
Many  people   suffer  from  the  defect  of  hurrying   and   
thinking  that  they  understand  everything,  even  in  situations  
where  they  have  already  been  led  astray.  Others  are  so  egotis-
tical  that  they  think  they  are  entitled  to judge  everything  and  
everybody.  They  are  driven  onwards  by  unworthy  motives.  
People  in  these  categories  should  at  some  time  be  taught  the  
value  of  silence.  Silence  is  basic.  It  is  the  mother  of  rational  
thought.  Before  we  speak,  we  must  think  in  silence.  What  we  
say  will  then carry  more  weight.  
There  are  two  ways  in  which  we  create  elementals.  Both  
have  their  starting  point  in  some  stimulus  from  the  world  of  
matter. 
In  the first way,  we  allow  our fantasy  free rein  when it    is 
centred  upon  some  attractive  material  form,  to  run  unbridled  
152 

and  create  an  unlimited  number  of  strong  elementals,  whose  
aim is to  satisfy the particular desire or emotion. 
Elementals  in  this  category  we  call  desire-thought  ele-
mentals  and  the pattern  of their creation  is  as  follows:  
Material  object  -» Excitation  of some response  —>  Genera-
tion  of desire  -»  Creation  of conditions for satisfaction. 
These  are  they  whom  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  calls  'uncl-
ean   spirits'   and      'devils'   (cf.   Mark   5:11,13)   and   which   
degrade  the  quality  of  life for human beings. 
Let  us not  be  deceived  into  believing  that  only  after hav-
ing  acted  out  against,  or  injured  others  with  the  spoken  word,  
have  we  caused  harm.  We  hurt  as  much  with  psycho-noetical  
activity  as  we  do  with  a  closed  fist—even  much  more  some  
times! 
The  All  Holy  Logos,  fulfilling  the  ancient  Law,  referrs  
to   this  in  the  case  of adultery.  'Ye  have  heard  that  it     was  said  
by  them  of old  time,  "Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery."  But  I  
say  unto you, that whosoever looketh  on  a woman  to  lust after 
her  hath  committed  adultery  with  her  already  in  his  heart'  
(Matthew  5:27,28).  Let us consider this point more carefully. 
'Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery'  is  not  enough,  because  
if   you  are  discovered  with  the  wife  of  another,  even  in  fan-
tasy,  the   Divine  Law  has   already  been  contravened.   How   
many  times  do  we   transgress  the  Law  during  sleep,  when  the  
fences  are  down  and  we  have dreams,  whose flavour,  whether  
of   joy  or grief,  lasts  a long  time  after we  have  woken  up?  Our  
waking   consciousness   should   always   condition   our   dream   
consciousness,  and  we  should not  allow  the reverse  to prevail. 
This,  then,  is  one  method  of  forming  elementals  in  an  
uncontrolled  way,  which  contributes  to the  karmic  state  of  the  
153 

personality  and  lengthens  its  term  of  service  in  the  bonds  of  
the material  world.  
The  other  way  is for thought  to  be  controlled  and  to  pre-
cede  the  formation  of a desire.  Humanity learns,  little  by  little,  
lifetime  by  lifetime,  to  react  more  slowly  to  whatever  the  
stimulus  may  be.  All  human  beings  are  subject to  similar  situ-
ations  and  circumstances.  It  is  up  to  us  to  determine  the  man-
ner  in  which  we  will  comprehend  and  react  to  each  setting;  
either  with  wild  emotion  or  with  calm  reason.  The  elementals  
created  in  this  second  way  we  call  thought-desire  elementals.  
They  lead  man  safely  down  the  straight  path  and  purify  the  
environment,    producing    helpful    conditions    for    general    
development. 
It   is  a  regrettable  state  when  humanity,  intoxicated  by  
matter  and  activity,   allows  its  consciousness  to  be  shaped  by  
the  forces  at  play  upon  it—forces  which  so  often  result  from  
the  more  base  emotions  and  desires  of humanity.  Conscious-
ness  has  the  authority  and  the will  to  shape  itself towards  self-
determination  and  not  simply  be  the  plaything  of  time-place  
circumstances. 
The  Christ Logos  lays  great  stress  on  the  question  of ele-
mentals.    He    openly   condemns    the   creation    of   counter-
productive  images,  which  he  contemptuously  calls  'deaf  and  
dumb  spirit'.  Condemnation  alone  of  these  left-over  psycho-
noetical  forms  is  not  enough.  He  warns  us  against  rampant  
desires,  which excite  the imagination  and  give rise to  the  crea-
tion  of harmful  desire-thought  elementals.  
On the  other hand,  He  constantly  encourages  the  creation  
of    thought-desires;  beneficial  images,  which  attract  humanity  
away from  the  material  and  in the direction of Heavenly  Man.  
154 

CHAPTER  SIXTEEN  
THE  SUBCONSCIOUS  
Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart: for  they  shall  see  God.  
(Matt.  5:8)  
Intricately  linked   with  our  study   of  elementals   is  the  
importance  of  a  close  examination  of the  subconsciousness  of  
humanity.  As  with  elementals,  this  presents  us  with  a  study  of  
inexhaustible  length  and  depth.  For  most  of  us  our  subcon-
scious,  depending  on  its  composition  and  quality,  decides  the  
circumstances  in  which  we  experience  life.  Our  subconscious  
can be  our best friend  and  our worst enemy.  Furthermore,   the   
attributes  of  our  subconscious  are  what  we  transfer  from  one  
incarnation to another.  Therefore,  vital to our work is   to gain  a  
full  understanding  of the  structure  of  our  subconscious  along  
with  developing  the  tools  to  cleanse  and  purify  this  'jungle  
within'. 
The  subconscious,  primarily  located  in  the  area  of  the  
solar  plexus,  is  divided  into  three  chambers.  The  size  of each 
chamber  varies  according  to  the  psycho-noetical  development  
of   the  individual.  
One  chamber  is  the  storehouse  of  vital  energy  or,  as  
others  term  it,  our animal  vitality.  It  is  through  this  part  of the 
subconscious  that our  source  of life,  our daily  bread,  is  drawn  
in   and  stored  for  distribution  within  and  without.  Living  a  
healthy,  gentle  life,  having  developed  a  proper  understanding  
of   the  circumstances  surrounding  life,  and  being  of service  to  
155 

others,  in  other  words,  becoming  good  Researchers  of Truth, 
we  will  gain  control  over this  energy.  Otherwise  it     is  likely  to  
gain  control  over  us!  Apart  from  maintaining  our  own  full  
health  (our  psychic  and  physical  well-being)  we  will  harness  
this  etheric  vitality,  as  the  various  forms  of ether,  for  healing  
others.  As  Christ  says,  'He  that  believeth  in  me,  as  the  scrip-
ture  hath  said,   out  of  his  belly   shall  flow  rivers  of  living  
water'  (John  7:38).  Christ  here  speaks  of  etheric  vitality  as  
water. 
Another chamber,  so  often  a  dense jungle,  is  the body  of  
elementals  that  we  generate  and  regenerate  within  our person-
ality.  These  elementals,  largely  the  product  of  subconscious  
activity,  are  contained  within  this  chamber  where  they  stir  
about  waiting  for  opportunities  to  express  themselves.  As  we  
mention  in  the  preceding  chapter,  although  many,  many  ele-
mentals  work against us  we  also benefit from  healthy, life giv-
ing  elementals,  stored  within  our  subconscious.  It  is  in  this  
chamber  where  we  must  apply  ourselves  in  sorting  out  the  
good from the  bad, that is,  clearing  the brush from the jungle. 
For  this  is  the  very  seat  of our  egoism  as  a  present  per-
sonality   (whereas  our  Ego  selves  reside  in  our  hearts  and  
minds)  as  a  collection  of unbridled  emotions  and  desires.  This  
chamber,  unless  it  be  cleared  and  cleaned,  will  bind  us—and  
make  the  others  suffer—lifetime  after  lifetime  adding  misery  
along the  way.  'He  must increase,  but I must decrease,'  as  it    is 
beautifully  stated  by  our  beloved  Yohannan  (John  3:30),  here  
referring   to   the   process   of   ridding   ourselves   of  egoism—  
selfish  elementals—and   opening   ourselves   to   the   Love   of   
Christ  and  God.  
The   third   chamber  is   where   the  Holy   Spirit   and  the  
Christ  Logos  guide  and  influence  us.  Here  we  enjoy  our  Holy  
156 

Spiritual   super-conscious   awareness,   a   type   of   instinctual   
awareness.  We  all  marvel  at  the  fact  that  we  can  drive  a  two  
ton  automobile  for  miles  and  miles  and  not  recall   a  single  
detail  of the  drive,  as  all  along  we  were  lost  deep  in  thought.  
Other  examples  include  our  ability  to  act  most  swiftly  and  
wisely  when  emergency  situations  arise.  Moreover,  it     is  from  
this  holy  chamber  that  each  of  us  knows  intuitively  the  value  
of   goodness  and  has  the  ability  to  discriminate  between  right  
and  wrong.  And  should  we  transgress,  from  here  spring  the  
stings  of  conscience  which  move  us  to  correct  our  thoughts  
and  actions.  We  speak  of the   Holy  Spiritual  and Logoic  influ-
ences  in  our  higher  centres,  yet  here  too,  in  the  subconscious  
we  are  well  guided  in  our development. 
We  have  the  perishable  human  body  with  its  continu-
ously  changing  gross  material  composition,  which  most  of  us  
regard  as  our  real  self.  In  fact,  we  are  looking  at  a  shadow  of  
our self,  the  present personality. 
Three  quarters  of the  personality  is  subconscious,  or sub-
conscious  mind.  We  will  come  to  know  Mind in another form 
and  will  be  surprised  when  we  have  established  that  Mind,  
even  at  its  lowest  degree  of  expression,  holds  within  it  the  
Total   Wisdom,   Total   Power   and   Total   Love   of  Absolute  
Beingness. 
The  human  personality  is  constructed  both  individually  
and  in communities.  A person  receives  influences  from  within  
the  personality  and the  environment  around,  to  which  the indi-
vidual  reacts  with  thoughts, desires  and  ambitions,  which  have  
their source  largely  in  the  subconscious.  
In   addition,  both  our  subconscious  and  our  personality  
are  situated  simultaneously  in  our three  bodies  (noetical,  psy-
chic  and  gross  material).  If  this  were  not  so,  the  personality  
157 

would   be   annihilated   upon   the   dissolution   of  the   material   
body.   In   such   a   case,   those   who   left   the   material   body,   
whether  at  'death'  or  in  exosomatosis,  would  lose  their  indi-
viduality.  But this does  not happen. 
We  know  that the  subconscious  constitutes  three  quarters  
of    the  present  personality,  since  it  resides  in  the  psychic  and  
noetical  bodies,  as  well  as the  material.  
In  short,  in the  average human the three  bodies  are  super-
imposed,  although  the  noetical  body  does  not  have  the  shape  
the  other  bodies  have.  On  the  other  hand,  in  an  advanced  
human  being,  the  psychic  and  noetical  bodies  can  be  used  as  
separate  bodies,  independently  of  each  other,  to  express  the  
higher plateaus  of  the   human personality. 
Thus  the human  personality  lives  on  as  a phenomenon of 
life,  or  as  a  centre  for  the  receipt  of  impressions  in  time  and  
place,  both  after  the  dissolution  of  the  material  body  ('first  
death')   and   after   the   transformation   of  the   psychic   body   
('second  death').  
A   personality   who   leaves   his   body   unconsciously   is   
more  likely  to  vibrate  violently  with  unholy  emotions  and  to  
receive  impressions  only  from  the  lowest  sub-planes  of  the  
psychic  world,  which  are most unpleasant.  When,  on  the  other  
hand,  these  impressions  are  cut  off,  he  believes  that  what  he  
remembers  of  them  are  born  of  his  imagination,  viewed  in  a  
dreamscape,  and not an experience he  has  actually  undergone.  
For  this  reason,  man  must  learn  to  live  consciously  in  
time  and  space,  because  only  then  can  he  gain  control  over  
himself  in  the  psychic  world  and  stand  firm  at  the  sub-plane  
he    deserves.  
Let  us  now  look  at  how  the  subconscious  comes  into  
158 

being.  We  have  spoken  of the  etheric  doubles  of the  material,  
psychic  and  noetical  bodies,  which  are  made  up  of  etheric  
matter.  We  also  said  that  these  bodies  house  imprint,  kinetic,  
sensate  and creative  ether,  all  under the  control  of the  Archan-
gels,  the  Holy  Spirit  and  our permanent personality. 
Let  us  leave  our  Self  as  Spirit-Ego-Beingness  within  a  
Holy  Monad  and  descend  to  the  worlds  of separation,  in  order  
to   gain  experience.  After  our  descent,  we  are  subject  to  the  
various  Laws  of nature,  which  are  not confined  to  those  of the 
gross  material  world  alone,  but  also  include  those  in  force  in  
the  psychic  and  noetical  worlds.  Many  such  Laws  resemble  
each  other,  while  others  are  apparently  at  odds,  though  the  
prime  motive  in  both  cases  is  the  creation  of  a  third  state  for  
the  service  of the  phenomenon  of life  in  the  universes.  Noth-
ing,  we  stress,  is outside the Divine Plan. 
From  the  clash  of  Mind,  in  its  differing  frequencies  as  
material,  psychic  and  noetical  matter  (which  St.  Paul  called  
the  'laws  of the  flesh',  cf.  Romans  8:3),  with  the  personality,  
our  self-aware  self is  refined.  The  human  being,  before  birth,  
enters  the  worlds  of separation,  even  if    making  the  descent for 
the  first time.  An incarnating  Soul  will  live  in the etheric  dou-
bles  of the  expectant  parents.  If,  of course,  the  descent  is  for  
the   purpose   of  another   incarnation,   the   personality   carries   
with  it     all  the energies  of its  previous  incarnations.  Always,  in  
both  the former and  the  latter situations,  the  first expression  as  
a  newborn  is  the  need  to  breathe  and  to  suckle.  The  human  
being  draws  his  first  breath  and  begins  to  cry  as  it  enters  a  
new  environment  as  a phenomenon  of life. 
From  the  moment  of  the  child's  arrival,  the  elements  of  
the  psychic  body  exercise  influence;  I  want,  I  desire,  I  want.  
The  baby  thinks  that  it     wants  because  'wanting'  is  something  
159 

much  larger  and  more  important  than   what  we,   as  adults,  
understand  as  'wanting',  because  of  its  need  to  stay  alive  and  
be    in  charge  of  events.  Let  us  analyse  this   'I  want'  and  'I  
desire'. 
Responsible  for  these  desires  are  our  five  senses,  which  
the  Masons  call  the  'five  murderers'!  Almost  all  entering  the  
world  of  separation  forget  their  Real  Self.  They  see  some-
thing.  What  is  it?  They  use  Mind  as  light,  which falls  on  vari-
ous  surfaces  and  returns  to  the  eye  carrying  a  stimulus  from  
the  material  environment,  which  is  then  transferred  to  some  
part  of the brain.  In  this centre,  however,  total darkness reigns. 
Who  then,  in  the  material  body,  translates  the  vibrations  that  
reach the  brain as  'I     see'  and  'I   know'?  Certainly,  it    is our per-
sonality  self,  although  it     does  not  always  do  so  in  the  correct  
way,  since  we  have  translations  and  mistranslations.  When,  
for example,  a desire enters  in,  the personality misinterprets it. 
On the  other hand, it    interprets  it    correctly  when Mind  is freed 
from desire  and  sees  the  substance behind  and beyond the  sur-
face  of things. 
From  the  instant  we  say  'I  see',  another  factor  is  set  in  
motion  within  us  and  that  is   'I  want!'   But  what  is  it  that  
makes  people  want  this  or  that  as  their  own,  while  in  actual  
fact  nothing  belongs  to  us  as  we  only  temporarily  possess  
whatever  we  think  belongs  to  us?  Perhaps  it  is  the  insecurity  
of    the  personality,  wrested  from  the  All  and  thrust  into  the  
worlds  of separation?  It  is,  generally  speaking,   fundamentally   
an    ignorance  of reality. 
From   the  moment  that   a  human   being  finds   himself   
within  the  worlds  of  separation  he  begins  to  absorb  impres-
sions  for  the  permanent  personality.  Our  present  personality  
self characteristically  dives  in  and  thinks  that  this  is  life.  This  
160 

temporary  personality  has  no  fixed  point  of reference,  since  it  
is   continuously  carried hither  and  thither by  desires,  which  are  
sometimes satisfied and sometimes not.  In this way, the differ-
ent  emotions  and  conditions  are  created,  such  as  desperation,  
desire, joy,  satiety  and so on. 
Then   we   have  thoughts,   as   a  result  of  the   influx  of  
energy  from  the  noetical  and  psychic  bodies.  Thought  and  
emotion  lead  to  the  creation  of  elementals,  which  constitute  
the  primary  matter  from  which  our  personality  and  subcon-
scious  are  constructed.  
Consequently,  we  ourselves have built the prison, even  if  
it   seems  to  us  like  a  palace.  We  ourselves  create  and  are  
responsible  for  our  subconscious,  our  character  and  our  per-
sonality.  The  average  person  creates  his  elementals,  for  the  
most part  subconsciously,  and  is  subject to  their pressure with-
out  being  aware  of  it.  We,  knowing  our  natures,  can  control  
and  cleanse  our  subconscious.  We  will  purify  it  by  mastering  
and  developing  our  psychic   and  noetical  bodies.   We  must  
work from  the  top  and  later on,  by  means  of Mind  and reason, 
we  must  gain control  of our lower nature. 
Illness,  be  it  physical  or psychic,  arises  within  a  person-
ality  when  an  uneasy  subconscious  psycho-noetical  climate  
fosters   an  environment   that   will   nurture   and   proliferate   a   
destructive  energy.  Conversely,  an  illness  can  be  eradicated,  
or   cured,  when  the  elementals  that  fostered  the  problems  have  
been  resolved  and  removed.  Illness  is  instructive  in  this  light,  
because  it  requires  that  we  address  unhealthy  subconscious  
forces  (elementals)  that plague  the personality. 
In   starting  this  work,  we  do  not  begin  only  with  the  
material  body  and  its  etheric  double,  but  simultaneously  with  
the   psychic   and  noetical   bodies   and  their  etheric   doubles,   
161 

because  our  present  self  is  the  sum  of  them  all.  The  present  
personality  is  simply  the  totality  of  desires,   ambitions   and   
thoughts.  Furthermore,  sometimes  the  desire  is  stronger  than  
the  thought  and  the  person  talks  nonsense,  creating  tyrannical  
elementals.  In other cases,  right-thinking dominates  the  desire,  
when  reason  prevails,  and  the  person proceeds  along  the  right  
path. 
We    should    meditate    on    what    our    personality    is    
constructing  within  us  subconsciously  and  what  we  ourselves  
are    deliberately    building    and     storing    up    within    our    
subconscious.  Unhappily,  eighty  percent of what  we  create  are  
desire-thought  elementals,  which  degrade  our  subconscious,  
rather than  improve  it.  
The  improvement  of our  subconscious,  our character  and  
our  personality   starts  when  we  become  the  masters  of  our  
thoughts  and  gain  control  over  our  emotions  and  desires.  This  
will  result  in  our  living  more  uprightly  in  the  worlds  and  in  
developing  in  such  a  way  that  we  are  able  to  live  consciously  
in   the psychic  and noetical  worlds.  
162 

CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN  
THE LAW OF CAUSE  AND  EFFECT  
Make  no  mistake  about  this:   God  is  not  to  be  fooled;  a  man  
reaps  what  he  sows.  If he  sows  in  the  field  of   his  lower  nature,  
he  will  reap from  it  a  harvest  of corruption,  but  if he  sows  in  the  
field  of  the  Spirit,  the  Spirit  will  bring  him  a  harvest  of eternal 
life.  So  let  us  never  tire  of doing  good, for  if we  do  not  slacken  
in   our efforts  we  shall in due  time  reap  our  harvest.      (Gal.  6:7)  
We   find   today   much  confusion   concerning   karma   (a   
Sanskrit  word),  which  we  know  as  the  Law  of  Cause  and  
Effect.  Many  try  to  explain  their blessings  and misfortunes  by  
means  of  so-called  'good'   and   'bad'   karma,   without  really  
understanding  the  great justice  and  wisdom  of  this  Law.  Per-
haps  it     is  because  too  many  Westerners  have  adopted  Eastern  
views  towards  this  Divine  Law  which  are  often  limited  and  
deterministic. 
Karma  is  an  element  of  the  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect.  
This  law  is  not  a  matter  of rewards  or punishments.  As  scien-
tists  have  learned  in  recent  centuries,  and  as  mystics  have  
always  known,  every  event  which  happens  has  a  cause,  and  
every  cause  a  result.  It  is  the  economy  of  energy  and  every  
energy  expresses  a  vibration  and  a  quality.  This  Law,  seen  
from  the  point  of view  of the  worlds  of separation,  leads  us  to  
classify things  as good or evil,  and consequently,  as  leading  to  
reward or punishment.  But no judgement  is  involved.  
163 

Karma   affects   the   present-day   personality,   but   never   
affects  the  permanent  personality.  It  is,  in  fact,  the  permanent  
personality  who   administers   the  Law  of  Cause   and  Effect  
upon  the  currently  projected  present-day  personality.  The  per-
manent   personality   decides   conditions   and   circumstances,   
painful  or  pleasurable,  for  the  temporary  self,   so  that  the  
appropriate experience  is  acquired.  
This  great  Law  is  within  us.  The  permanent  personality  
and  the  Guardian  Archangel  have  the  Law  as  their  nature;  
'...the  work  of  the  Law  is  written  in  their  hearts,  their  consci-
ence  bearing  witness...'  (Romans  2:15).  
Our  present-day  personalities  are  like  naughty  children,  
whom,   periodically,   our   permanent   personalities   and   the   
Guardian  Archangels  have  to  shake,  in  order  to  make  them  
see conditions correctly.  In  truth,  our Guardian Archangels  are  
much more  gentle  in  administering  hardships  than  are  our per-
manent  personalities.  Sometimes  these  slaps  are  very  painful,  
yet they  are  always  deserved  and for a good purpose. 
Infinite   Beingness,  in  Its  Total Wisdom,  has  imbued  the  
Holy  Archangels  with  the  whole  plan  of Purity  and  Harmony.  
In   our  Guardian  Archangel  is  included  the  archetype  of  the  
perfect  noetic  state,  noetical  body,  psychic  body  and  material  
body.  Disharmony  arises  within  the  bodies  as  a  result  of  our  
experiences  in  the  worlds  of separation.  Our  aim  is  to  become  
as    perfect  as  the  archetype,  the  Heavenly  Man.  This  is  evolu-
tion.  The  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect  works  towards  evolution,  
according  to  the  Divine  Plan.  In  this  light,  we  see  this  Law  as  
most  loving,  as  it  is  an  indispensable  agent  in  the  lifting  of  
consciousness  to  ever  greater  heights.  
Afflictions,  sicknesses  and  poor  circumstances  are  the  
result of actions  in this  life  or in past lives,  which  we have  yet  
164 

to   resolve.  The  great  goal  is  to  purify  our unwholesome  ener-
gies,  reduce  the  creation  of negative  energy,  and  become  mas-
ters of good thoughts  and actions.  In this  way  we free our bod-
ies  from  the  weight  of  past  actions   and  enjoy  health   and   
harmony.  We  must  not  allow  karmic  consequences  and  con-
tingencies  to  control  us,  since  we,  blessedly  endowed  with  
free  will  and  reason,  are,  in  truth,  their master.  We  are contin-
ually  given  the  opportunities,  and  holy  Mind,  to  allow  us  to  
break  the  chains  binding  us  to  the  past  and  move  forward  
freely  into the future.  If we continue to create  negative  energy,  
we  will  then  have  to  face  it;  'All  who  take  the  sword  die  by  
the  sword'  (Matt.  26:52).  
Each  of  us  cultivates  a  karmic  state,  which  is  an  exact  
reflection  of  the  distance  we  have  created  between  our  exis-
tence  and  our  Being;  between  illusion  and  truth.  This  karmic  
state  is,  in effect,  the texture  of our consciousness.  The quality 
of   our predispositions,  beliefs, values,  intentions,  thoughts  and  
actions  are  indicators  of  our  karmic  position.  Illness,  confu-
sion  and  'bad  luck'  are  born  of disharmonies  within  the  per-
sonality,  as  the  expression  of our  proximity  to  truth,  love  and  
wisdom.  When  misfortune  arises,  either  brought  with  us  at  
birth  or  produced  as  our  life  proceeds,  it  is  a  measure  of  the  
friction,   illusion   and   misunderstanding   besetting   our  exis-
tence.  Consequently,  the  misfortune  is  in precise proportion to 
the  lesson necessary  to learn,  in order to  return to  relative  har-
mony.  We  now  properly  see  karma  as  the  gulf  between  our  
existence  and  our  Being,  and  the  Law  of Cause  and  Effect  as  
the  most wise  and  loving  hand  of our Father guiding us home. 
Yet  we  should  not  exaggerate  nor  dwell  on  the  effect  of  
karma.   As   the   God-Man   teaches,   for   a  farmer   to   plough   
straight  and  honest  rows  in  his  field,  he  should  keep  facing  
165 

forward  and resist  'looking back'  (Luke  9:62).  We  are  paying  
or   benefitting  all the time,  little by  little.  As determined by the 
Divine  Mercy  of  God,  we  pay  according  to  our  possibilities.  
St.  Paul  said  that  God  "will  not  allow  you  to  be  tested  above  
your powers'  (1  Cor.  10:13).  
According  to  another  saying  of  St.  Paul,  'We  that  are  
strong  ought  to  bear  the  infirmities  of the  weak'  (Rom.  15:1),  
and  according  to  the  words  of  the  Gloria'
1
  we  believe  that  
Jesus,  by  His  love  for  mankind,  shoulders  the  burdens  of the 
world,  for  all  those  who  call  upon  Him.  We  also  believe  that  
those  who  love  you,  in  the name  of love,  can  share  your trou-
bles  and  help  to  bear  your  pain.  That  is  God's  Mercy  in  the  
Divine  Plan.  Few  religions  and  schools  encourage  these  acts  
of   mercy  as  we  Christians  do.  
So  karma  is  not  the  sadism  of  a  punishing  God.  Charac-
terizing  Absolute  Beingness  in  this  manner  is  bringing  the  
Measureless  down  to  our  dimensions  and  our  weaknesses.  In  
Sanskrit,  karma  is  defined  simply  as  'action'.  We  can  com-
pare  it  with  the  Law  of  Gravity,  which  is  necessary  for  the  
maintenance  of order in  the  cosmos.  Nobody  can  complain  if,  
when he throws  a stone in the air,  it    falls on his own head.  The  
Law  of  Cause  and  Effect  is  order,  Absolute  Intelligence,  and  
Love  expressed.  
For   the   law   of  the   Spirit   of  life   in   Christ  Jesus   hath   
made   me free from   the   law   of sin   and  death.  
(Romans  8:2)  
III  the  Gloria  we  say  of Jesus  "Thou  that  takest  away  the  sins  of the  world.'  In  Latin  
this  is  expressed  as  'qui  tollis  peccata  mundi',  which  can  also  mean  'who  takest  upon  
Thyself  the  sins  of the  world.'  
166 

CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN  
LOOKING  WITHIN  
Non  statis  scire
1   
The  practice  of  looking  within  begins   with  the  gross  
material  body.  We  have  to  learn   how  to  concentrate  on  our  
self-aware  nature,  although  we  cannot  at  this  stage  have  a  
clear  understanding  of  it.  This  concentration  should,  at  first,  
be     upon   various   parts   of  the   gross   material   body   and   its   
etheric  double.  
When  we  have   succeeded  in  easily  moving  our  con-
sciousness   into  each  cell  and  every  part  of our material  body  
and  its  etheric  double,  we  can  then  put  right  any  malfunction  
of    our  gross   material  body   simply   by   the  exercise   of  our  
will—in  so  far  as  this  intervention  does  not  contradict  the  
basic Law of  Cause  and Effect. 
We  shall  also  teach  the  present  personality  how  to  make  
proper   use   of  Mind   and   to   shape   it   into   radiant   psycho-
noetical  images.  Up  to  this  point,  the  personality  has  uncon-
sciously  formed,  in  response  to  the  pressure  of  strong  desires  
and  unbridled  ambitions,  harmful  psycho-noetical  images.  If  
we  delve  more  deeply  into  the  process,  we  shall  see  how  
clumsily  and  mistakenly  mankind  builds  its  images  and  its  
worlds. 
[
  Latin;  To  know  is  not  enough.  
167 

The  world  around  us  is  beautiful  and  perfect.  All  the  
forms  constructed  by  the  Creator,  and  especially  the  living  
forms,  are perfect and wonderful.  But mankind cannot transfer 
these  living  forms  into  our  consciousness.  We  transfer  only  
noetical  images  of   these  forms  and  think  that  in  this  way  we  
can rule over them.  This  feeling of possession  is  not only  false  
but dangerous,  as  it    contributes  to the  disorientation  of human-
ity.  We  must  eventually  learn  what  our  real  property  is  and  
how  we  can reclaim  it.  
To  get  to  know  the  nature  of the  world  around  us  and  its  
substances,   which   we   call   etheric   vitality   (substance   and   
supersubstance),  is  a  great  endeavour.  It  is  the  basis  of  all  the  
work   which   leads,   through   acquaintance   with  psychic   and   
noetical  substance,  to  knowledge  of  our  real  self.  The  end  
result  is  a  growing  desire  for  purification  and  development.  
Only  then  begins  the  selection  of materials   for the  creation  of  
the  shining  clothing  of the  Soul,  the  'wedding  garment'  (Matt.  
22:10,11),  which  it    must  put  on  in  order to  enter  the  'presence  
of   the Lord'  (Acts  3:19).  
Our  development  is  not  simply  a  matter  of  theoretical  
knowledge,  but  requires  continuous  and  patient  exercise.  We  
need to  work in the various  worlds.  
The  noetical  world  and  the  psychic  world  stand  in  direct  
relation  to  one  another.  We  have  coined  the  term  'psycho-
noetic'  because  too  often  it  is  impossible  to  speak  of  these  
worlds  in  isolation.   Both  the  psychic  and  noetical  worlds  are  
worlds  of  expressed  forms.  Furthermore,   the  conditions  of  
time  and  place  are  quite  foreign  compared  to  those  which  we  
experience on  the  gross  material plane.  As  we  know  the noeti-
cal  world  to  be  the  plane  where  thought  arises,  and  the  psy-
chic  world  as  the  world  of emotion,  we must understand  that  it  
168 

is   unusual  to  have  an  emotion  that  is  void  of  thought,  or  a  
thought  that  is  divorced  from  some  measure  of emotion.  Thus  
we  often  speak of these two worlds  as being intertwined. 
Surely,  even  the  gross  material  world,  which  we  per-
ceive  at  once  as  a  world  of forms,  could  not  exist  were  it  not  
for  the  Total  Wisdom  of Absolute  Beingness.  This  world  too,  
takes  form  from  the  precise  moment  it  has  psycho-noetical  
supersubstance  in  it.  In  our  exercises  we  work  with  this  psy-
cho-noetical  substance.  
Humanity  as co-creator,  as  a real  'Son  of the  Father',  has  
the  power  to  make  use  of  noetic  light  and  to  shape  psycho-
noetical  images,  which  take  on existence  in the psychic  world.  
These  images  can,  subsequently,  become  material  in  the  gross  
material  world  and  be  made  into  various  tangible  shapes.  In  
this  way the Father of All Things projects  an Idea,  as  Absolute  
Super-intelligence,  when  by  means  of  Mind  He  creates  the  
universes  and  expresses  Himself  as  Christ  Logos  and  Holy  
Spirit. 
In   effect,  man  sees  the  Lord  'in  His  works'  (cf.  John  
4:34)  and begins,  as  a  son,  to learn to do  what his Father does. 
In   a  similar  way,  we  ourselves  also  form  images  recognizable  
in   the  gross  material  world,  which  have  already  been  given  
form by the Father. 
We   must   begin   with  psycho-noetical  exercises,   using   
kinetic  and  imprint  ether.  We  fix  our  personality  at  one  point  
of   the  etheric  double  of  our  material  body  and  collect  around  
that  point  sensate  ether  so  that  we  can  feel  ourselves  fully,  
within  and  without.  By  our  will  power,  we  then  move  to other 
parts  of our  etheric  double,  using  now  kinetic  ether,  which  in  
this  way  is  incorporated  in  the  circle  of  our  concentration.  
Gradually,  this  circle  spreads  out  and  eventually  the  whole  of  
169 

our  etheric  double  is  placed  under  the  control  of  our  sensory  
understanding  and is  blessed by  Divine  tranquility.  
Now  let  us  take  as  an  example  a  flower.  We  see  that  it  
has   shape,   size,   form,   colours,   and   so   on.   We   hold   this   
flower—let  us  say  it  is  a  rose—in  one  hand  and  take  careful  
note  of every  detail  of its  appearance.  Now,  with  our  physical  
eyes  closed,  by  using  imprint  ether,  we  can  create  an  exactly  
similar noetical  image of this  flower  in the  other hand. 
With   the   help   of  kinetic   ether,   we   turn   our  creation  
around  and  notice  all  its  movements  with  close  attention.  We  
have  a  complete  feeling  of noetical  movement,  as  long  as  our  
concentration is sufficiently intense. 
If   now,  holding  the  visual  picture  (which  contains  the  
movement  as   well)   we  concentrate  on  the  noetical   image,   
using  sensate  ether,  we  will experience  the  aroma too  and  will  
feel  the movement of the  stalk  in our fingers. 
Now,  let us  say that in place  of a red rose  we want to vis-
ualize  a  white  rose,  of  exactly  the  same  size  and  shape.  The  
only  difference  we  wish  to  make  is  in  the  colour.  We  draw  
from  our  subconscious  the  form  of  a  white  rose,  which  we  
have  retained  from  previous  experience,  and  taking  only  the  
colour,  we  apply  it    to  our existing  image.  Now  we  are  holding  
a pure  white  rose in our hand. 
In   the  same  way,  we  can  if  we  wish,  keeping  only  the  
colour,  change  the  whole  flower  and  have,  for  example,  a  
white  carnation instead  of a white  rose.  
Here  is  the  guarantee  of  the  power  of  the  will.  We  set  
aside  what  we  do  not want  and  we  keep only  what  we  wish  to  
keep.  We  make  a  distinction  between  the  chosen  wish  and  the  
unbridled   fantasy   and   we   create   images   with   deliberate   
170 

thought.  In  the  same  way  this  happens  in  introspection,  look-
ing  within,  with  the  help  of different  types  of ether.  We  con-
centrate  on  various  parts  of the  body  and  on  our  subconscious,  
in  order to  straighten out conditions  or draw upon powers. 
Our  first  concern  in  looking  within  must  be  the  progres-
sive  formation  of  a  comprehensive  understanding  of  what  we  
are.  It    is    not enough  only  to work out  a theoretical  comprehen-
sion  of  this  matter,  but  we  must  primarily  choose  to  undergo  
experiences, which will be  of sufficient significance to  lead us 
into the worlds  of truth. 
We  are  a  Soul.  But  what  are  we  as  a  Soul?  We  have  
what  we  call  our  self,  that is  to  say  a material  body,  burdened  
with  suffering  and  desire,  and  we  believe  that  somewhere,  
inside  all  this,  is  some  other  indeterminate  thing,  which  we  
call  Soul.  We  do  a  lot,  an  awful  lot  of things  for  the  sake  of  
our material  body  and  surely,  somewhere,  we  should  remem-
ber  our   Soul  too.  We  should  fulfill  some  of our  moral  debts,  
moved  by  love  of  the  nature  of  goodness,  and  not  by  fear  or  
ulterior  motives.  
We  know  that  the  plane  of  the  Soul  originates  in  the  
world  of Ideas,  since  It    begins  to  exist  (It  always  is)  as  a con-
cept immediately  when  one  ray  of the  Holy  Monad has  passed  
through  the  Human  Idea.  Yet,  even  for  us,  the  Researchers  of  
Truth,  this  knowledge  is  more  theoretical  than  practical.  Our  
objective  is  to  explore  the  truths,  already  studied  so  patiently  
by  others,  in  order  to  create  and  develop  a  life  and  creed  of  
our  own.  
Just  as  doctors,  in order to progress  in  their studies,  must  
have  a  good  knowledge  of  the  anatomy  of  the  human  body  
and  of  the  functioning  of  the  various  organs,  we  must  seri-
ously enter into the  spiritual part  of our existence  and  make  an  
171 

effort to get to know  and understand  it.  
We  say  that  our  body  is  Holy  Spiritual.  We  are  told  of  
the  Trinitarian  Nature  of Divinity.  We  cannot  demand  that  we  
believe  something  without  knowing  it  from  our  own  experi-
ence.  We  can  only  accept  it     as  a  subject  for  research  and  the  
belief  will  follow,  if  it     does  follow,  as  the  product  and  out-
come  of that research. 
Christ  says,  'And  ye  shall  know  the  Truth  and  the  Truth  
shall  make  you  free'   (John  8:32).  Our  ancestors  in  ancient  
times   said   the   same   when   they   insisted   'Know   Thyself'   
(reportedly   inscribed   as   one   of  the   sayings   of  the   'Seven   
Sages'  in  the  Temple  of  Apollo  at  Delphi).  We  see  Socrates  
chatting  unconcernedly  about  death,  because  he  knew  of  the  
life  beyond  the  material  body.  On  the  other  hand  we  have  
Thomas,  who  demanded  to  see  'the  print  of  the  nails'  and  
Jesus,  who  did  not  rebuke  him,  but  invited  him  to  touch  (cf.  
John  20:25-27).  
So  we  must  know  the  Truth,  because  this  alone  will  set  
us    free.  There  is  a  way  to  do  so  and  mystics  have  taught  this  
through  the  ages,  as  does  Jesus  Christ  Himself.  'The  flesh  
profiteth  nothing,'  (John  6:63)  He  says,  not  referring  to  the  
purpose  of  its  existence,  which  is  mental  within  the  outline  of  
the  Divine  Plan,  but  to  its  deification  and  to  its  need  for  pro-
tection   against   the   'animal   spirit'   which   is   harmful   and   
seductive. 
Jesus  Christ  is  not  some  mythical  personage,  but  the  
Divine  Super-Being  who  illuminates  everyone  who  enters  the  
world  (John  1:9).  He  it    is   who,  in  His expression within  all  of  
humanity,  gives  each  of us  the  teachings  and  the  examples  of  
real  Love  and  Reason.  Our  Real  Self  is  indeed  very  near  us.  
But we,  instead  of drawing  closer,  take  its  outer clothing  to  be  
172 

our  self  and  surrender  ourselves  to  this  convenient  delusion.  
Nevertheless,  our  Self is   not far away from  Its  clothes.  All  we  
have  to  do  is  to  take  them  off  and  make  Its  acquaintance,  
because  our eternal  Self is    what  we  ourselves  are.  
It   is  within our own power,  and  it    is    our elementary  duty,  
to   know  our  Inner  Self  and  to  co-operate  with  the  Holy  Spirit  
for  the  adornment  of  our  dwelling-place,  because  the  bodies,  
although  they  are  where  we  live,  are  also  God's  Temple.  The  
Archangels  work  together,  in  harmony,  to  build  and  maintain  
the  bodies,   which   are   used   by   our  personality   self  as   the   
means  of  expressing  the  phenomenon  of  life.  These  Powers  
rejoice  unbelievably  when  they  see  a  Being,  for  whom  these  
bodies   have  been   built,   inspecting   and  comprehending  the  
whole  work.  
Looking  within  consists  of  smashing  the  mirrors  which  
show   us   only   our  material   image,   and   seeing   within   and   
behind  it    our psychic  and  noetical  bodies  and  still  further  bey-
ond.  It  is  the  mastery  of  matter  (but  not  by  denial  nor  con-
tempt)  and the deliverance from  its  spell.  If we  succeed in  this  
we can  use matter as  it    should  be  used and create  paradises for 
ourselves  and for those  around us. 
While  looking within,  we  must also  practise  self-analysis  
with  great  application.  We  must  study  our  behaviour  and  dis-
cover why  it    is    the  way  it     is.  If,  after some grievous  (let us  not  
say  bad)  action,  we  ask  ourselves  why  we  behaved  like  that,  
we  shall  observe  our  present  personality's  egoism  trying  to  
argue  with  great  subtlety,  putting  forward  incredible  explana-
tions;  'For  Satan  himself is    transformed  into  an  angel  of light' 
(2   Cor.  11:14).  We  must,  at   that moment,  on  our own,  medi-
tate  and  search  out  the  real  reasons  for  such  behaviour.  The  
protest  of  our  lower  personality  must  be  silenced.  We  must  
173 

observe  and  judge  as  though  it  were  someone  else  and  not  
ourselves  who  had  created  the  negative  thoughts,  emotions  
and  actions.  
We  must  ask  ourselves  whether  we  spoke  with  an  ulte-
rior  motive  or  did  something  in  order  to  flatter  our  personal-
ity.  We  should  begin  with  deliberation  to examine  our person-
ality  and  all  its  behaviour.  We  shall  then  start to  see  the  whole  
situation  in  the  light  of  reason  and  will  determine  the  causes  
behind   the   phenomena.   This   work   requires   total   honesty,   
which,  even  though  it     is  difficult  to  summon  up  at  the  begin-
ning,   eventually   provides   great  happiness   and   satisfaction,   
because  beside  us  stands  not  only  our resistant personality  but  
also our Real  Self, guiding  and directing  us.  
From  where  we  stand  now  we  see ourselves,  our  actions,  
and   our  thoughts  subconsciously.   Later  on,   after  a  certain  
amount  of  time,  as  we  improve  our  behaviour,  we  shall  see  
ourselves  consciously  and  shall  be  able  to  control  our  emo-
tions   and  make  correct  decisions,  entering  further  into  the  
world  of  will.  At  this  point,  when  we  can  use  thought  pro-
perly,  we  feel for the first  time, though in  an indefinable  way,  
the  Ego—7  am  V.  We  begin  to  enter  our  Eternal  Self  and  
move  towards  greater understanding  and  experience.  
From  this  moment  we  can  use  the  etheric  double  of  our  
material  body  and  all  that  is  around  us with  command.  This  is  
because  our  Self-aware   Soul  has   authority.   Our  temporary  
personality,  with  its  weaknesses  and  passions,  does  not  have  
this  authority.  Great  is  our joy  when  we  make  the  right  use  of  
the  Divine  gift  of thought  and  become  conscious  of the  light-
ness  of our  activities,  by  means  of self-analysis.  Various  emo-
tions  are  churning  within  us  which  we  must  understand  and  
attempt   to   control.   We   shall   come   to   know   the   precise   
174 

strength  of each  desire  and  the  possibilities  of satisfying  it.  In  
this  way,  setting  aside  desires  of a  certain  strength,  we  ensure  
our  position  within  the  wider  circle  of  development  and  we  
create conditions for more extensive  exercise.  
Since   desires   are   projections   of  psycho-noetical   sub-
stance,  in the form  of elementals  (whose  aim  is  to achieve ful-
fillment),  human  beings  are  constantly  beset  by  them  as  long  
as    they  are  in the place-time  worlds.  If we  serve these elemen-
tals,   they   are   enriched   with   greater   amounts   of   psycho-
noetical  substance  and  become  stronger  and  stronger,   until   
they  are  fulfilled.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  we  push  them  away,  
in   obedience  to  right  thinking,  they  will,  of  course,  keep  on  
returning,  but  each  time  it  becomes  easier  for  us  to  produce  
the  right  reaction  which  flows  from  the  presence  of the  Inner  
Self. 
Still better is to  control  our desires from  their very  incep-
tion   and   to   forbid   the   creation   of  threatening   elementals,   
which  can be difficult to dis-empower later on. 
We  must  cultivate  reverence  for our  Self-aware  Soul,  so  
that  from  it     can  flow  control  and  supervision  over  the  present  
personality,  whose  nature  is  to  stray  from  the  path.  In  this  
way,  we  shall   strengthen  our  personal  radiations   and  shall  
become  little  (at  the  beginning)  beacons  of  light,  which  will  
illuminate  and  attract  those  around  us.  Slowly  we  will  obtain  
psycho-noetical  mastery  over  our  surroundings  and  will   be   
able  to  do  and  understand  things,  which  until  then  we  had  
regarded  as  impossible.  We  shall  be  able, for example,  to read 
the  thoughts  of  others  and  to  realise  with  great  ease  when  
someone  is  lying.  However,  this  does  not  give  us  permission  
to  violate  the  personalities  of our fellow  humans.  We  certainly  
have  the  power, but we  do  not have  the right to use  that power 
175 

indiscriminately.  Great  care  must  be  exercised,  because  each  
time  we  gain  powers,  new  temptations  arise  beside  us,  which  
we  must  thrust away,  to ensure that  we  are following the  right  
road and  do  not  stray  into dangerous  ways.  
Now  our  Inner  Self-aware  Soul  has  come  to  the  surface  
and  knows   and   controls   Its   expression.   Little   by   little   it   
becomes  clear  that  the  one  who  is  doing  the  reasoning  is  not  
our  present  day  personality  alone,  but  we  ourselves  through  
our Inner Ego. 
This,  by  and  large,  is  the  substance  of  meditation.  The  
more  specific  procedure  must  consist  of  a  subject  of study  (of  
our  personal  choice  since  the  facts  of  each  person's  life  are  
different,  just  as  their  reactions,  which  are  dependent  on  the  
degree  of  their  spiritual  understanding,  are  also  different).  A  
teacher  never  gives  all  his  students  the  same  exercises.  He  
arranges   them  in  categories,  forms   classes   and   adapts  his  
teaching to correspond to the development  of the  pupils
2
.  
By  means  of looking  within,  the  feeling  of non-existence 
during  sleep is gradually  abolished,   so  that while the material 
body  sleeps,  we  can  work  as  a  Self-aware  Soul.  One  day,  we  
shall  see,  with  great  rejoicing,  that  the  psychic  world  is  open  
to   us  and  we  can  move  freely  in  it,  behaving  as  we  should.  In  
this   manner  we   enter   Super-conscious   Self-awareness   and   
while  we  still  live  in  the  gross  material  world,  we  can  at  the  
same  time  be  in  many  other  places,  far  away  from  each  other  
to   receive  impressions  and  offer  aid.  Powers  and  abilities  are  
developed  which  are  outside  the  average  human  perception.  
Thus,   one   who   is   endowed   with   Super-conscious   Self-
2 
A  separate  book  of exercises  is  available  from  the  address  given  on  the  last  page.  
176 

awareness  can,  while  working  normally—giving  a  lesson,  let  
us    say—and  without  interrupting  the  train  of thought,  simulta-
neously  speak  to  someone  else  who  is  miles  away,  with  total  
control  of both  situations.  
One  of  the  great  works  which  our  personality   under-
takes,  under  the  direction  of  our  permanent  personality,  is  to  
make  us  worthy  of the  Divine  gift  of thought  and  emotion.  A  
personality  should  try  to  understand  why  it  has  suffered  dur-
ing  its  sojourn  within  the place-time worlds. 
It  feels  its own  value  when,  while  still  living  in  a materi-
al    body  ruled  by  desires  and  instincts,  it  can,  by  the  correct  
use  of  Mind,  produce  worthwhile  work  and  consciously  re-
store  rhythm  and  balance  where  previously  anarchy  and  chaos  
reigned. 
The  personality  understands  for  the  first  time  its  true  
place  in  the  scheme  of Creation.  It  looks  around  with  a  sense  
of   responsibility  and  sees  that,  in  spite  of its  Divine  nature,  it  
had,  nevertheless,  made  very  little  use  of  the  Divine  gift  of  
thought  and,  even  then,  principally  in  the  service  of passions, 
desires  and  dishonourable  ambitions.  
We  have  said  that  life  as  a  place-time  phenomenon  is  
one  thing  and  that  life  in  reality  and  inner quality  is  quite  dif-
ferent.  Now  a  human  being  assimilates  his  personality  self,  
which  lives  in  the  place-time  world  of  impressions,  with  his  
Self,  as  a reasoning and loving  Being.  
However,  as  we  progress  in  looking  within,  we  have  to  
bear in mind  that  we  must  not  act  as judges,  but  we  will  attune  
ourselves   with   Total   Love,   which   surrounds   and   contains   
every  form  of  life  and  towards  which  everything  is  directed.  
We  must  not  face  people  and  events  with  a  tendency  to  con-
trol  and  punish  from  a  superior point  of view,  but  with  a  true  
177 

understanding of their problems  and  a genuine  interest in find-
ing the cause  and effecting  a cure. 
As  Researchers  of  Truth,  we  are  students  and  teachers;  
present  personalities  and  permanent  self-aware  personalities.  
Our prime  motive  is  the  purification of our whole  personality.  
With  right-thinking  and  meditation  we  can  distinguish  
self-reflective  love  (where  the  egoism  mirrors   itself  in  the  
love),  which  is  determined  by  personal  goals,  and  replace  it  
with  real  love,  unconditional,  universal  and  undying,  taking  
part  in  the  process  by  which  'the  corrupt  puts  on  incorruption  
and  the mortal immortality'  (ICor.  15:53).  
178 

INSTEAD  OF AN  EPILOGUE  
The   following   poem,   which   consists   of   a   dialogue   
between   a  Guardian  Archangel   and   a  man  with  problems,  
takes  the  place  of  an  epilogue,  since  it  is  reflective  of  the  
whole  work.  
This  dialogue,  as  with  all  reality,  tries  to  show  how  man  
hides  within  himself wonderful  powers,  which,  if  he  chooses  
to   activate  them,  make  all  things  possible.  The  logical  realiza-
tion  that,  what  is  difficult  in  practice  is  truly  worthwhile,  
makes  it    possible  for human  beings,  with  the  help  of the  pow-
ers established within us,  to  attain the  ideal  and be  led to  Self-
Realization  and  Theosis.  
All  the  powers  are  at  our  disposal  and,  in  theory,  there  
should  be  no  obstacle  to  our  development  which  we  cannot  
overcome.   We human beings, for all  that we  are to participate 
in   the  Divine  Plan  to  achieve  our Self-Realization,  we have  to  
form  our  own judgement  and make  our  own  free  choices.  We  
must   know   everything   from   experience   and   develop   the   
capacity  to make distinctions  and to choose. 
It   is   through  right-thinking  that  humanity   comes   into   
contact  with  the  Divine  and  reaches  understanding  with  awe  
—not  because  of  fear—but  as  the  product  of  the  shattering  
revelation  of  the  Magnificent  and  the  Beautiful  which  pro-
duces  wonders  and distills  true  contentment.  
In   this  sense  we  read  that,   awe  'of the  Lord  is  the begin-
ning  of  Wisdom'   (Proverbs  9:10).  The  basic  motive  is  for  
humanity  to  gain  superconscious  understanding  of Total  Wis-
dom,  Power  and  Love,  which  are  the  Natures  of  Absolute  
Beingness  and reign  in our Innermost  Spirit.  
179 

THE  TRAVELER  OF  DREAMS  
Literal Translation from the Greek 
The  night was dark, drowning in rain, 
This moonless night,  lost in rain, 
A wild night,  dark,  wet and freezing. 
All  the  elements  of nature  groaned  strangely,  
Lightning  and thunderbolts,  all  the  world  was  shaking.  
Outside in the garden, in the yard, a wild north wind was blowing, 
With  such fury  it    seemed  as though  it    was trying 
To uproot  the cypress  tree at one  go  
And  to burn  and freeze  every  variety  of flower. 
It  was  a moonless  night,  lost  in rain, 
A  wild night,  dark,  wet  and freezing. 
And I,     in my hut,  where  the  light was dim. 
In  front of the  icon of Him,  the Christ,  the flame trembled. 
I gazed dumbly at the door,  which every gust of the north wind 
Buffeted,  and my heart was heavy. 
Should  I  be expecting anyone  at this  wild hour... 
Who,  I wondered,  would be coming through 
this terrible  storm?  
Truly,  whom  did  I await, to  run  and open the door 
With my  frozen hands? 
Suddenly, like  a flash of lightning  he came to me 
And  the hut was  fdled  with warmth  and light. 
He  looked  at  me  with  love  and  smiled.  
He  caressed my  head  and kissed me  on the eyes. 
My  limbs  lost their numbness,  my  heart  lightened  
180 

And  I felt  such  warmth,  to the  innermost depths  of my  Soul.  
And he,  always near,  always  smiling  
Gazed  at me  lovingly  and  spoke  sweetly.  
I  said  to  him:  Who  are  you,  who  came  so  suddenly,  
in  this  unexpected  rain  ?  
My  brain  is  of no  help  in  telling.  I  think  I  know you... 
you  are  very  much  like  Christ.  
That  you  came,  I  warmly  thank  you.  
He  replied:  I  am  your  Angel,  
Your  guardian  and  protector,   eternally  your  own.  
I  said:  Where  have  you  been,  
when  I  was  in  pain,  when  my  heart  was  bleeding,  
and I  was  struggling?  For  so  long,  where  were  you?  
And  He  replied:  / am  your Angel,  my  love,  I  am  your  
Guardian  Angel.   Yours  in  eternity;  guarding  and  
protecting  you...    and  always  loving  you.  
I  spoke  to  you  softly.  I  bound  up  your  wounds,  
I  measured your  tears.  I  was  always  within  you.  
When  you  came  in  pain  so  was  I.  
You were always drunk with  earthly things,  a traveler of dreams, 
losing  your  way  in  the  trackless  infinite.  
Ever  running,  never  stopping...  What,  then,  were  you  seeking?  
These  things  whirl  around,  in  huge  masses  like  mountains.  
The  Powers  dressed you  with  earth,  with  salt  and  water,  
And  you  slept  deeply  in  earth, for  so  long.  
Dressed  in  earth,  you  were  sleeping  and  dreaming...  
In  vain  your friends  tried  hard  to  give  you  their  hands.  
You  collected  dirt  and  called  it  your  own.  
181 

You  collected  it,  you  amassed  it  and your  suffering  began.  
You  are  obsessed  with  your  own  dirt,  with  glory  and  wealth.  
Your false  identity  was  reduced  to  an  exceedingly  sorry  state.  
You  were  piling  up  mud  in  tons  beyond  measure  
And you  thought you were building the  house of your dreams. 
Like  Circe,  the  muddy  matter  made  you  a  prisoner.  
But  inside  you,  you forgot  that  there  was  a  candle  burning.  
The  immortal  Spirit,  your  true  Ego,  
You  were  covered  in  dirt...  you  were  not  yourself.  
On  earth,  in  the  mud,  are  the  shadows  of those  who  love  you.  
Those  whom  you  loved  and  who  have  betrayed you, 
Those  who  have  wounded you  with  unfair  and  bitter  words,  
Those  who  struck  you  harshly  and painfully 
And  those  whom  you  love for  their  goodness,  
All  of them  are  human,  human  like  you,  beloved  spirits.  
They  are  all  travelers  of dreams, just  like  you...  
In  reality  they  are  gods,  beloved  Spirit-Ego-Beings.  
Now,  my  beloved  one,  you  should forget  the  mud,  
the  earthly  and  get  some  rest.  
Earthly  things,  human  things  have  made  them  dizzy  too.  
They  have forgotten  their Being and they  have  been  obsessed.  
Look  ahead  and find  your path,  you  will  be  at peace. 
He  stretched  out his  hand  and  said:  Come,  let us go  ...  
I  said:  Let us  go?  Where  to?  
To  the  Kingdom  of Christ,  that  is  where  /  invite  you.  
There,  where  one  learns  to  love,  where  everyone  is  loved,  
You   will  see   unfading flowers,   multicoloured  and fresh. 
Within  the  inextinguishable  light   you  once  possessed,  
182 

There  is  living joy,  there  is  living  love.  
It  is  the joy  of the  Lord,  the  end  of our  road.  
I said to   him: Do  I have to leave, to forget those whom I love? 
And  live  alone  in  the  light  and  the joy? 
He  said  to  me:  With  those  you  have  loved and will  love,  
With  those  you  love  now,  with  all  of them  you  will  be  living.  
Here,  on  earth,  in  the  dirt,  are  only  shadows,  muddy  shells;  
Souls  are  somewhere  else.  
They  are  Souls,  you  are  a  Soul,  everyone  will  be  accompany-
ing  you.  They  will join  you  in  the  light  of Paradise. 
He  said  to  me:  /  am  your Angel,  guardian  and protector. 
I  am  always  within  you, for  all  eternity  yours.  
In  the  mud  on  earth,  in  the  darkness,  error  and pain, 
I  was  always  within  you,  I  have  never  left you. 
I  was  always  within  you.  You  are  awake  and you  are  God.  
Do  you  think I  would  leave  you  to  live  by  yourself?  
You are  god and so am I.  And both  of us are light, 
life  and love,  honesty  and purity. 
Within  the  embrace  of God,  till  the  end  of time. 
You  and  I,  everyone  of our  brothers,  
All  loved  the  same,  home  is  the  Prodigal  Son,  
Who  returned  and  crossed  the  threshold  of God's  house,  
Each  of you   'was  lost  and  is found'  (Luke  15:24).  
183 

GLOSSARY  OF  TERMS  
Our   System   for   the   Research   of  Truth   employs   terms   and   
concepts  in  a  particular  fashion.  The  translators  have  laboured  
to   preserve  the  eloquence  contained  in  the  Greek  original.  To  
avoid  confusing  our  language   and  terminology   with   that  of  
other  schools  and  other  disciplines,  and  to  gain  clarity  over  the  
material,  we appeal  to the readers  to consult this  glossary.  
ABSOLUTE  BEINGNESS,  INFINITE  BEINGNESS,  GOD,  
THE FATHER,  THE LORD,  THE HIGHEST. 
These  terms  are  used  interchangeably.  In  spite  of the  use  
of    masculine   pronouns   with   any   of  the   above  terms,  
Absolute   Beingness   and   any   of  the  other  expressions  
used  for  God  are  without  gender.  God  is  all  and  every-
thing. 
ARCHANGELS,  ANGELS  
Holy  Spiritual  Beings  assisting  in  the  construction  and  
maintenance  of  the  worlds.  They  possess  Total  Wisdom  
and  Absolute  Self-awareness  (though  lacking  the  self-
conscious  individuality  specific  to humans).  We  speak in 
praise  of the  Archangels  of  the  elements,   the  Orders  of  
Authorities,  of  Cherubims,  of  Dominions,  of  Overlords,  
of    Principalities,    of  Seraphims    and  of  the  Thrones.  In  
our  work  we  speak  of  seven  Orders  of Archangels,  each  
composed   of   billions   and   billions   of   Holy   Monadic   
Beings  serving  Creation.  Angels  are  elementals  of  the  
Archangels. 
ARCHANGELIC  MAN  
Archangelic  Man   is   one   of  the   Ideas   (see   'Heavenly   
184 

Man'   and   'Causes,   Ideas  and  Principles'   below).  The  
Holy   Monadic   emanation   passes   through   the   Idea   of   
Archangelic  Man  on  its  way  to  the  Idea  of  Heavenly  
Man,  thus  the  Archangels  are  the brothers  of humanity. 
AT-ONE-MENT 
The  super-conscious  state  in  which  a  Being  is  able  to  
merge   itself  in  total  oneness  with  any  other  Being  or  
existence,   and   with   Absolute   Beingness   in   Theosis,   
without ever abandoning  its  Ego.  
ATTUNEMENT 
Adjusting  our  vibrations  to  the  frequency  of  any  other  
existence  or Being  to  the  extent  that  we  can  observe  and  
study  its  nature.  Attunement  is  reached  prior   to  at-one-
ment. 
BEING  and  EXISTING  
Existing  has  a  beginning  and  an  end  and  is  thus  a  timed  
or    temporal  phenomenon.  Being  is  timeless  and  eternal,  
without  beginning  or end. 
CAUSES,  IDEAS   and PRINCIPLES 
The  Will-pleasure  of  Absolute  Beingness  is  the  primal  
Cause,  as  it  is  the  cause  of  Creation.  From  within  the  
Will-pleasure   of   Absolute   Beingness,   all   the   Causes   
spring.  Causes  then  give  rise  to  Ideas.  Every  Idea  holds  
within  it     the  whole  cycle  of possibility  of the  form  to  be  
created.  Archangels  work  through  the  Ideas  and  impart  
Total   Wisdom   to   each   form.   Principles   govern   the   
expression  of Causes  in time  and  space.  
CAUSAL  STATE  
Above  the  noetic  state,  the  causal  state  is  a  condition  of  
pure  Ideas  and  Principles.  It  is  also  known  as  the  fifth  
heaven. 
185 

CAUSE AND EFFECT,  LAW  OF  
The  Law  of Cause  and  Effect  is  recognized  by  scientists  
as     well   as   mystics.   This   Divine   Law   requires   every   
action  to  result  in  a reaction.  Yet,  whereas  Eastern  relig-
ions  often  teach  a  deterministic  view  of  this  Law  (term-
ing  it     karma),  we  believe  that  debts can  be  borne  for oth-
ers  or  transcended  through  repentance  (see  below)  and  
reparation.  The  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect  operates  over  
several lifetimes as  well  as  within much  shorter periods. 
CHRIST,  CHRIST LOGOS,  LOGOS,  LOGOI,  LOGOIC  
The  Greek  word  Logos  can  be  translated  as  'word'  (as  
the  Authorised  Version  does  in  the  first  chapter  of  St.  
John's  gospel).   Christ,  as  used here,  alone or in conjunc-
tion   with   Logos,   refers   to   the   'Only   Begotten  Son'.  
When  Jesus,  as  the  incarnation  of  the  Christ  Logos,  is  
specifically  meant,  He  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  'the  
Most  Beloved  Logos'.  In  our  work,  we  often  speak  of  
the  Holy  Logos  and  the  God-Man  Jesus  Christ,  a  full,  
direct,  and  pure  incarnation  of  the  Logoic  expression  of  
Absolute  Beingness,   synonymously.  Logoi  is  the  plural  
of   Logos,  Logoic  is the adjective. 
COSMIC  CONSCIOUSNESS,  COSMIC  MEMORY  
Here  every  event,   past  and  present,  in  all  the  worlds  is  
recorded.   A  mystic  can  perform  research  by  attuning  
himself  to  the  Cosmic  Consciousness.  Contained  within  
the  Cosmic  Consciousness  is  the  Cosmic  Memory.  This  
is   the  'heavenly  archive'  where  the  impressions,  actions,  
thoughts,   emotions   and  desires   of  all   the  Beings   are   
recorded. 
CYCLE  OF  POSSIBILITIES  
The  cycle  of  possibility  of  each  form  is  laid  down  in  
186 

Total  Wisdom in  the  Divine  Laws  and  Causes.  All forms 
are  continually  developing:  from  seed  to  tree,  from  child  
to   adult.  Each  form  changes  so  that  experience  may  be  
gathered.  In  the  Eternal  Now  a  form  is  complete  and  
based  on  a  Principle,  with  its  cycle  of possibility  already  
established.  On  entering  the  worlds  of existence  (materi-
al,      psychic   and   noetical),   the   cycle   of  possibility   is   
inscribed  on  the  permanent  personality,  and  parameters  
are  set  (time  and place).  No form  may  escape its  cycle  of  
possibility,  thus  ruling  out transmigration  from  one  form  
to     any    other    (humans    will    always    reincarnate    as    
humans). 
CYCLE  OF  PROBABILITIES  
While  the  cycle  of possibilities  is  the  ideal  development  
and  is  inescapable,  the  cycle  of  probabilities  allows  for  
the  halting  of  a  developing  life  at  any  point  of  its  deve-
lopment.   A   seed   may   not   grow,   a   young   tree   may   
become   diseased   and   die,   or   a  child   may   pass   over.   
Within  each  cycle   of  possibility,   we  find  millions   of   
cycles  of  probabilities;  it  is  probable  that  something  or  
someone  may  stop  existing  or,  conversely,  continue  to  
exist.  Each cycle  of possibility,  whether fulfilled or inter-
rupted, has  great wisdom behind  it    in  serving  the Law. 
DIVINE 
Used  only  for  the  Qualities,  Causes,  Ideas,  Laws   and   
Principles,  and  Beings,  which emanate  directly  from  Ab-
solute  Beingness.  
DIVINE  GRACE  
It   is  a  gift  of  Divine  Grace  that  we  exist  as  humans,  in  
our bodies,  in the universes. 
187 

DIVINE  LAWS  
The  basic  structure  of Creation,  governing  all  worlds  and  
universes,  and  corresponding  to  our  higher  nature.  Epi-
tomizing  Reason  and  Love  manifested,  it     is  our  recogni-
tion  of,  and  alignment  with,  these  Laws  (e.g.,  of  Cause  
and  Effect,  of  Harmony,  of  Order,  of  Growth  of  Love)  
which   leads   to   our   balanced   and   enhanced   spiritual   
development. 
DIVINE  MEDITATION  
Intricately  linked  to  the  Will-pleasure  of Absolute  Being-
ness  to  express  Itself  within  Itself.  Divine  Meditation,  
for  lack  of  a  better  term,  is  believed  to  be  the  state  prior  
to   the  Will-pleasure  where  Absolute  Beingness  contem-
plates  expression.  Within  Divine  Meditation  Creation   is   
conceived. 
DIVINE  MERCY  
A  little  understood,   but  most  compassionate  force   in   
Creation,  that  permits  the  seeming  miraculous  to  take  
place.   James,  in his  epistle,   wrote,  'and  mercy  rejoiceth  
against  judgement'  (3:13).  
DIVINE  PLAN  
The    blueprint    of    Creation,    perfect    and    complete,    
accounting  for everything  and for all  occurrences.  Attun-
ing  our  thoughts  and  actions  to  the  most  wise  Divine  
Plan  of  Absolute  Beingness  is  the  purpose  of  our  exis-
tence. 
ECSTASY 
A  going  out  from  oneself  into  the  Kingdom  of  Heavens  
through    expansion,    at-one-ment    and/or    attunement.    
Ecstasy  implies  a passing  beyond  all  conceptual  thinking  
of   discursive  reason.  
188 

EGO  and EGOISM 
Our  use  of  these  terms  is  not  to  be  confused  with  con-
temporary   psychological   terminology.   Egoism   defiles   
Mind  by  the  construction  of  selfish  desires,  and  by  the  
base  emotions  of greed,  malice  and  envy.  The  Ego  (with  
a capital  E)  is  the  Self as Beingness, our Soul nature,  and  
is   reflected  through  a  reasoning  and  loving  personality.  
While  egoism  (a  weakness  of our  present  personality)  is  
the  source  of  dis-ease  throughout  the  personality,   the   
nation  and  the  world,  our  Ego  nature  brings  forth  love,  
compassion,  reasoned  thinking  and  reasoned  action.  
ELEMENTALS 
Every  thought,  emotion  and  desire  creates  and  transmits  
an    elemental—also  called  thought-form—that  carries  on  
an    existence  of  its  own.  We  create  and  regenerate  two  
types   of   elementals.    When   an   emotion   governs    a    
thought,  we  have  created  emotional  thought-forms,  or  
desire-thoughts.  When  our  ideas,  desires  and  emotions  
pass   through   reason   and   love,   we   create   reasoned   
thought-forms,   or   thought-desires.   An   elemental   can   
never  be  destroyed,   only  dis-energized   (by   no  longer  
feeding  the  elemental  with  etheric  vitality).  Elementals  
of    a  kind  collect  to  form  powerful  group  elementals.  If  
an    individual,  or a collection  of individuals,  are  vibrating  
at    the  same  frequency,  they  will  attract  such  group  ele-
mentals.  Archangels  also  create  elementals:  benign  and  
angelic  in  the  service  of humanity. 
ETERNAL NOW,  ETERNAL  PRESENT  
Beyond  the  worlds  of  existence  is  the  Eternal  Now,  the  
state  of Everlasting  Life.  There  past,  present  and  future  
collapse  into  a single  present,  without time  or place. 
189 

ETHER,  ETHERIC  VITALITY  
'Our  daily   bread',   etheric   vitality   (Mind)   is   obtained   
through  breathing,  meditation,  eating  and  rest.  We  swim  
in    a  sea  of  etheric   vitality   which   surrounds   and  per-
meates  the  globe,  yet,  through  disharmonious  lifestyles,  
most  of us  exhaust  our  portion  of etheric  vitality  and  are  
unable  to  restore  it,  leading  to  physical  and  psychic  dis-
tress.  All  existence,  including  our  bodies,  is  constructed  
within  a  mould  of  ether  (the  etheric  double).  We  speak  
of    four    conditions  of  ether:  creative,  sensate,  imprint  
and  kinetic.  
ETHERIC  CENTRES,  SACRED  DISCS  
Centres    of   energy    and    activity    (Sanskrit:    chakras)    
located  at  various  points  on  the  etheric  doubles  of  our  
bodies.  Each  of the  three  bodies,  from  the  gross  material  
to   the  more  refined,  displays  these  centres,  which  corre-
spond  to  organs  of  the  material  body.  We  must  exercise  
care  in  working  with  these  centres,  for  while  it     is  neces-
sary for us  to  develop  and  awaken certain of them,  others  
are  the domain  of the  Holy  Spirit,  the  Archangels  and  the  
Logos   (e.g.,  the  'root'   and  the  heart  centres)  and  we  
should  refrain  from  any  manipulation  or  direct  interfer-
ence.  For  'heart center'  see  below.  
ETHERIC  DOUBLES  
Each  body  of  every  existence,  from  the  simplest  to  the  
most   complex   structures,   possesses   an  etheric   double   
centred  within  the  body  and  extending  slightly  beyond  it.  
The  etheric  double  exists  as  long  as  the  body  (whether  
material,  psychic  or  noetical)  is  projected.  When  a  body  
is   withdrawn  (passes  over),  its  etheric  double  dissolves.  
The  etheric  double   serves   both  as  the  mould  for  the  
190 

body's  construction  and  in  the  preservation  of the  body's  
health. 
EXOSOMATOSIS 
The  literal  Greek  equivalent  of  the  English  expression  
'out  of  body  experience'.  We  all  leave  our  bodies  each  
night,  during  sleep,  and  travel  to  other  planes  subcon-
sciously.  The  aim,  however,  is  to  live  consciously  while  
out  of  our  bodies.  We  know  of  first,  second  and  third  
exosomatoses. 
GUARDIAN   ARCHANGEL   
At   the   point   of   our   first   incarnation,   upon   passing   
through  the  Human  Idea,  the  Self-aware  Soul  is  pro-
tected  and  guided,  throughout  its  long  sojourn  into  the  
worlds  of  separation,  by  an  Archangel.  This  Archangel,  
our  faithful  companion,  is  from  the  Archangels  of  the  
Thrones. 
GROSS  MATERIAL WORLD,  BODY  
The  lowest  vibration  of  Mind.  Mind  made  solid  to  com-
pose  the  material  world  and  the bodies. 
FAITH 
Not  only  an  individual  or  theoretical  belief  in  the  dog-
matic  truths  of  a  religion,  but  an  all-embracing  relation-
ship,  a  recognition  of,  and  love  for  Absolute  Beingness.  
As  such  it  involves  a  complete  transformation  of  a  per-
son's   personality,   whereby   we   are   taken   up   into  the  
whole  theanthropic  activity  of God  in  Christ  and  of man 
in    Christ   through   which   we   achieve   Theosis.   Faith,   
above  all,  is  an  active  virtue:   'Faith  without  works  is  
dead...'  (James  3:26).   Also  see  'Repentence'  below.  
191 

HEAVENLY  MAN  
The  Idea  of  Man  or  Human  Idea.  Our  bodies  are  con-
structed  according  to  the  Causal  Law  of  the  Heavenly  
Man. 
HEART  CENTRE  
Not  simply  the physical  organ  but  the  spiritual  centre  of  
Mankind's  Being.  Man  made  in  the  image  of  Absolute  
Beingness  as  reason  and  love,  our  truest  self,  our  inner  
sanctum,   through   which   the   mystery    of   the   union   
between  the  Divine  and  the  mundane  is  consummated.  
'Heart'  has  thus  an  all-embracing  significance.  Prayer of 
the  heart  means   prayer  not  just  in   the   emotions   and   
affections,  but  of  the  whole  person.  We  should  strive  to  
purify  this  heart  for  'God  knoweth  your  hearts,'  writes  
Luke  (16:15).  
HOLY 
All  Creation  is  holy,  born  of the  Divine  expression.  That  
which  is  holy  is  projected  (as  opposed  to  that  which  is  
emanated) from the Divine. 
HOLY  MONAD,   HOLY  MONADIC  SELF  
The  Self  in  its  Real  Identity.  A  Holy  Monad  might  be  
thought  of  as  one  of  countless  myriads  of  'cells'  within  
the  Multiplicity  of Absolute  Beingness.  
HOLY  SPIRIT  
Impersonal    Super-consciousness    that    expresses    the    
power  of  Absolute  Beingness  and  makes  possible  the  
Creation  of  the  universes.   The  dynamic   aspect  of  the  
Absolute. 
IDEA,  DIVINE  
See  under  'Causes,  Ideas  and  Principles'  
192 

INNER  SELF  
A  term  indicating  the  self  in  its  expressions  above  the  
present-day  personality.  
KARMA 
See under Cause  & Effect,  Law of 
LOOKING  WITHIN  
The   process   of   introspection   or   self-examination,   of   
'knowing  thyself.  This  is  the  core  practice  of  every  
Researcher  of Truth  and  all  those  interested  in  Self Real-
ization. 
MIND 
The  Divine  emanation  of  Absolute  Beingness  to  which  
all  existences  owe  their  construction.  Imbued  with  the  
Divine  Wisdom,  Love,  Power  and  Purity  of  its  Creator,  
Mind  is  not  an  immortal  Being,  but  is  eternally  used  as  
the   substance   of  all   Creation.   Mind   is   Divine   at   its   
source,  and holy  in  its expression. 
NOETIC  STATE  
A   state   of  Ideas   and   unexpressed   forms   beyond   the   
worlds  of separation.  This  state is  where  we  come  to rest 
in   between  incarnations  and where  the  Archangels  derive  
the forms into  which to breathe life. 
NOETICAL  IMAGE  
A    multi-dimensional    image    of   noetical    or   psycho-
noetical   substance,   formed   by   thought   by   means   of   
noetic  light.  Once formed  it    is    everlasting,  as  are  all  ele-
mentals. 
NOETICAL  WORLD,  BODY  
The  five  dimensional  world,  and  the  most rarefied  of the 
three  worlds  of  separation.  In  the  noetical  worlds  (home  
193 

of    the  noetical  body),   the  Total  Wisdom   of  Absolute  
Beingness  first  finds  expression  as  form,  ranging  from  
universes   and  galaxies  to  unicellular  organisms.  Time  
and  place  are  attributes  of the  noetical  world,  but  not  in  
the sense understood  in the psychic  and  material  worlds.  
OVERLORDSHIP 
In  varying  degrees,  we  find overlordship  as  in  a  sense  of  
dominion  and  Divine  Authority  as  ordained  from  above.  
PERMANENT  ATOM  
That  part  of the  permanent  personality  which  acts  as  the  
recorder  of  the  experiences  it  has  received  in  the  place-
time   worlds.   The   permanent   atom   is   situated   in   the   
etheric  heart  of  each  body  simultaneously,  and  registers  
all  the  emotions,  thoughts,  reactions  and  experiences  as  
they occur in the  three  worlds.  
PERMANENT  PERSONALITY  
The  active  and  expressive  part  of Soul  in  Self-awareness  
within  the  worlds  of  separation,  which  filters  knowledge  
(from  the present-day  personalities)  and distills Wisdom. 
PRESENT,  PRESENT-DAY,  TEMPORARY  PERSONALITY  
A  personality  developed  during  each  incarnation,  whom  
we  call  'George  or  Mary'  or  whatever.  The  present-day  
personality  is  a  projection  of  the  permanent  personality  
into the  worlds  of separation. 
PSYCHIC  WORLD,  BODY  
The  four dimensional world,  also  known as  the  'world of 
emotions'.  The  super-sensuous  psychic   world  is  com-
posed  of  seven  planes,  each  having  seven  sub-planes.  It  
is   to  the  psychic  world  that we  travel  in  first exosomato-
sis,  in  our  psychic  body,  and  to  which,  on  passing  over,  
we first return. 
194 

PSYCHO-NOETICAL 
The  relationship  between  the  psychic  world  (emotions)  
and the  noetical  world (thoughts)  is often  so  intimate  and  
interwoven   that   we   need   to   consider   them   as   semi-
unified.  In  a thought  there  is often emotion,  and  in  every  
emotion  there  is  a measure  of thought. 
REPENTANCE 
The  Greek  (uexdvoia-  metanoia)    signifies  primarily  a  
'change  of  mind'  or  'change  of  intellect':  not  only  sor-
row,  contrition  or regret,  but  more  positively  and  funda-
mentally  the   conversion  or  turning   of  our  whole   life   
towards   alignment   with   Absolute   Beingness'   Divine   
Plan.  Also  see  'Faith'  as described above. 
SELF-AWARENESS,SELF-AWARE,SELF-CONSCIOUS 
Conscious   awareness,   in   varying  degrees,  of  the   Self   
within  the  Divine Plan. 
SELFHOOD 
The  Personality  as  a  unified,  Divine,  Being.  Selfhood  
encompasses  all  the  expression  of the  Self from  Its  apex  
as    the  Holy  Monadic  Spirit-Ego-Being  filtered  down  to  
the  petty  present  day  personality.  Within  the  Selfhood  
not  a  single  expression  is  devalued;  each  is  cherished  in  
its    own  right.  Our  Spirit-Ego-Being  partakes  in  the  Will-
pleasure   of  Absolute   Beingness   (to   express   Itself   in   
Itself)  by  expressing  Itself  within  its  own  Selfhood.  We  
mirror God's   Good  Creation  within  our  own  good  crea-
tion,  within our Selfhood. 
SELF-REALIZATION 
The   Self-Realization   of   the   permanent   personality   as   
Individuated  Beingness.  The  culmination  of  the  gather-
ing  of  experience  in  the  worlds  of  separation.   At  the  
195 

point   of   Self-Realization,   the   permanent   personality   
reunified  with  Self-aware  Soul  is  prepared  to  assimilate  
with  the  Spirit-Ego-Being   in Theosis. 
SELF-SUFFICIENCY 
The  primary  Nature  of  Absolute  Beingness,  in  complete  
Abundance,  Blessedness  and  independence  of all  needs.  
SEPARATION,  WORLDS  OF  
This  phrase  covers  the  three  worlds  of existence  (mater-
ial,   psychic   and   noetical)   in   which   our   personalities   
spend  their periods  of seeming  separation from  the  Spirit  
states  of  at-one-ment  and  Beingness.  
SOUL 
A  Soul  is  formed  when  a  ray  of  a  Holy  Monad  passes  
through  the  Idea  of Heavenly  Man.  The  Soul  is  not  crea-
ted;  it     is  a  small  pearl  from  the  Spirit  which comes  to  be  
known  as  the  Self-aware  Soul.  The  Soul  is  in  a  formless  
state  as  Spirit,  and  remains  formless.  When  returning  to  
the  Godhead,  marries  the  Spirit-Ego-Being,  it  has  be-
come  fuller.  
SPIRIT-EGO-BEING 
Our  Self  in   its  full  divinity,  eternal,   unmovable.   Our   
Spirit-Ego-Being  is  the  Self  as  Holy  Monad;  in  total  at-
one-ment  with  the  Self-sufficiency  and  Multiplicity  of  
the  Godhead.  The  Will-pleasure  of  Absolute  Beingness  
to   express  Itself within  Itself is    identical  with  the  Will  of  
our Spirit-Ego-Being to express Itself in   Its own Selfhood. 
SUBCONSCIOUS,  SUBCONSCIOUSNESS  
Researchers  of the  Truth  understand  the  triadic  nature  of  
subconsciousness.   One   chamber   of   the   subconscious   
contains  all  the  elementals  composing our personality.  A  
second   chamber   is   the   storehouse   of  etheric   vitality   
196 

(sometimes  called  our  'animal  vitality')  The  third  and  
most  valued  chamber  is   that  of  the  Logos   and  Holy  
Spirit,  for  it  is  through  the  subconscious  that  the  Holy  
Spirit  and  the  Logos  impart  Total  Wisdom,  Total  Power  
and Total  Love.  
SUPER-CONSCIOUSNESS 
Super-consciousness  is  total  awareness  in  Beingness.  
SYSTEM  FOR  THE RESEARCH  OF TRUTH 
Our  system  of Esoteric  Christianity  celebrates  the  eternal  
truths   known   to   all   great   religious   traditions,   while   
firmly   based   in  the   teachings   of  the  God-Man  Jesus  
Christ  and  the  New  Testament.  Through  directed  study,  
exercises  and  meditations,  we  seek  the  balanced  evolu-
tion  and  integration  of our  entire  being.  Our  approach  is  
methodical, safe and self-evident. 
TETRAKTYS 
(Pronounced  tet-ruk-TEES)  A  group  of  four.  The  ele-
ments  of earth,  air, fire  and water compose  a tetraktys. 
THEOSIS 
At-one-ment  with the  One  God,   Absolute Beingness. 
TOTAL  LOVE,  WISDOM  and POWER 
Primary   Natures   of   Absolute   Beingness   and   Beings.   
Forming  a  sacred  triangle  each  Nature  is  dependent  on  
the  other to  be  expressed properly. 
WILL-PLEASURE 
The  Greek  word  euareskeia  has  no  exact  equivalent  in  
English.  It     carries  a sense of pleasure derived from boun-
tiful   giving,   as   practised   by   a   warmly   generous   and   
wealthy  source.  Will-pleasure  was  used  in  preference  to  
'bounty'  or  'charity'  to  avoid  misconceptions.  We  have  
described  euareskeia  as  'God's  pleasure  in  creativeness'.  
197 

To  obtain  information  on  
other   available   
material    please  write:  
Mrs  Panayiota  Theotoki  
The  Stoa  Series  
P.O.Box  8347  
Strovolos,  Cyprus  
For  the  Americas  
please  write  to:  
The  Stoa  Series  
P.O.  Box  1718  
Bucksport,  Maine  
04416   U.S.A.   

