

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JOSHUA IMMANUEL THE CHRIST 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joshua Immanuel The Christ 
His Life on Earth and His Teaching 
BY DR. STYLIANOS ATTESHLIS 
KNOWN AS DASKALOS 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I  am  filled  with  joy  that two  thousand  years 
after  the  events happened in  Palestine  my 
father’s account  of  the  life  and  teachings  of 
Joshua Immanuel, the Christ, is published. 
My father taught me at an early age that 
true friendship is precious and rare. I am very 
privileged to be able to say that I have a num-
ber of good friends. Not least among them are 
Eliane and Rudolf Stauch who have spared no 
effort  to  ensure  that  the  book  is  true  to  my 
father’s intentions.  I  wish  to  thank  them  for 
the time spent in the preparation of this book.  
I  am  very  glad  that  Dominik  Stauch 
agreed again to do the layout. His touch gives 
a  book  a  special  quality.  I  extend  to  him  my 
sincere thanks. 
Panayiota Th. Atteshli 
 
 
  

Note of The Editors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dr.   Stylianos Atteshlis,   the   author   of   this 
book, wished that his manuscript be reviewed, 
edited and published. We vividly remember a 
discussion  with  him  in  which  we  asked  how 
far we were allowed to deviate from his text in 
order  to  make  it  easier to  understand.  We  felt 
that  the  texts  of  the  teachings  delivered  by 
Joshua  contained  passages  that  were  difficult 
to understand. His answer was: “DO WE HAVE 
to  make  the  things  simpler  and  change  the 
words  of  Christ?”  He  added  that  this  book 
should   not   be   read   like   a   novel;   that it 
demanded  introspection  and  meditation.  We 
have  tried  to  keep  as  close  and  faithful  to  the 
original  as  possible.  Unfortunately  for  us,  the 
author passed over in 1995. 
 What  the  author  wrote  in  Greek  and 
Aramaic  has  been  reproduced  in  his  original 
handwriting.  We  have  compiled a  glossary  of 
most   of   the   Aramaic   terms   and   of   some 
keywords used in the text. The glossary terms 
are  printed  in  italics,  at  least  when  they  first 
appear in the text. In order to convey the idea 
that  Absolute  Beingness  or  God  is  neither 
male   nor   female,   the   text   uses   the   terms 
“Him” or “It” interchangeably. 
 In  the  first  part  of  the  draft  the  author 
referred to God as “Eloha”. Realizing that it 
could  give  rise  to  a  false  pronunciation,  he 
preferred the second part “Allaha”. We used 
the  spelling  “Alaha”,  which  is  closer  to 
Aramaic. 
 Daskalos  used  different  Bibles,  but  he 
preferred the King James Version in a slightly 
more  modern  language.  He  copied  texts  by 
hand,   revised   them   and   added   to   them 
wherever he was inspired to do so. 
 We     have  included  a  “Table  of 
Genealogy” of the families of Joshua and of 
Yiassounai  and  hope  that  it  will  make  the 
reading easier.  
 We wish to add that no statement in this 
book was intended to give offense to, or to be 
critical  or  demeaning  of,  any  religion,  people, 
or  nation.  The  book  is  an  account  of  events 
that  happened  two  thousand   years  ago,  as 
witnessed by a Christian mystic.  
 It  has  been  a  joy  to  work  on  this  book. 
We   hope   the   readers   will   get   as   much 
inspiration and blessing from it as we did.  
 The Editors 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published by the Stoa Series 
Panayiota Theotoki-Atteshli 
P.O. Box 28347, 2093 Nicosia 
Cyprus 
 
Layout Dominik Stauch 
Illustrations Sabine Portenier & Dominik Stauch 
 
ISBN 9963-8162-2-3 
Copyright 2001 Panayiota Theotoki-Atteshli 
All rights reserved 
 
Printed in Cyprus 
IMPRINTA LTD, P.O. Box 24105 
1701 Nicosia, Cyprus 
 

Table of Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
NOTE TO THE EDITORS 7 
 
INTRODUCTION 13 
 
 Preface  
ON THE NATURE OF TRUTH 16 
 
 Chapter One   
THE PEOPLE OF BIBLICAL PALESTINE  17 
[The Romans, the Israelites, the Essenes,  
the Greeks, the Bedouins.]  
 
 Chapter Two 
THE ESSENE FAMILY OF THE GOD-MAN   
JOSHUA IMMANUEL 19 
[The Holy Family, honored by the Logos God 
incarnated and humanized as the God-Man Joshua 
The Birth of Elizabeth. The Immaculate Conception  
of Maria. Maria’s dedication to the temple as  
a White Dove of the Heavens.] 
 
 Chapter Three 
THE NATIVITY 21 
[The Annunciation. An Angel Appears To Yioussouf.  
The Birth Of Joshua Immanuel In Bethlehem. The  
Three Kings. Herod’s conspiracy. The escape from  
Bethlehem.] 
 
 Chapter Four 
THE HOLY FAMILY IN EGYPT 24 
[Preparations for the journey. The circumcision of  
Joshua Immanuel in Yerushalayim (Jerusalem). The  
Flight into Egypt. The Essenes of Egypt. The boyhood  
of Joshua. The Law completed. Miracles. Departure  
for Palestine.] 
 Chapter Five  
THE HOLY FAMILY RETURNS TO PALESTINE 31 
[The Holy Family settles in Nazareth. A journey to 
Yerushalayim for the Passover Feast. Joshua teaches and 
heals in the Essene temple. Plans are made for regular 
visits to the Holy City.] 
 
 Chapter Six   
A PECULIAR FAMILY 34 
[The family of the Essene novice Yiassounai. 
A troublesome Greek named Aristarkhos.  
An Accident And A Healing.] 
 
 Chapter Seven  
IN CANA 39 
[Altai woos Esther. A wedding and a miracle  
in Cana. Joshua heals in Cana and  
in K’far Nahum (Capernaum).] 
 
 Chapter Eight   
IN EN-NASSAR 42 
[Joshua exorcises demons into swine in Gadara. 
His stepbrothers argue. The God-man escapes  
a stoning. Healing of a leper. Joshua prays in the 
wilderness. He leaves Nazareth with Maria,  
Yioussouf and Yiacoub for K’far Nahum.] 
 
 Chapter Nine  
THE HOLY FAMILY IN K’FAR NAHUM 47 
[Teaching and healing in K’far Nahum. The  
parable of the sower. The gathering of disciples. 
Preparing disciples to ‘go out’ two by two. 
Raises a child from ‘death’.  
He comes to his disciples over the sea.] 
 
 
  

 
 Chapter Ten  
YIOHANNAN THE BAPTIST IN JERIKHO 53 
[The early history of Yiohannan the Baptist. 
He dedicates himself to God as a monk-ascetic. 
He baptizes and teaches. He baptizes his cousin. 
Joshua Immanuel. Shalome fails to seduce him. 
He is imprisoned by Herod.]  
 
 Chapter Eleven 
THE MUGKTADES RAHIB-SHAHEED YIOHANNAN 58 
[The Holy Monk-Martyr Yiohannan the Baptist. 
In the dungeon. He is visited by his family. 
He refuses the King’s ultimatum. Shalome’s dance 
of the seven veils. Yiohannan is beheaded.] 
 
 Chapter Twelve 
JOSHUA IMMANUEL THE GOD-MAN’s LIFE AND  
HIS MINISTRY In PALESTINE 63 
[Joshua prophesies his crucifixion and the fall of 
Yerushalayim. He teaches the sweetest 
Commandment: the Doctrine of Love. 
The Sanhedrin plots against him.] 
 
 Chapter Thirteen 
THE ESSENES OF PALESTINE 70 
[The life of the Essenes. The work of two Essene 
Novices. Stephanos and Yiassounai. On the Sabbath, 
Joshua teaches and heals. Essene See of 
Yerushalayim. The God-man travels to K’far Nahum.] 
 
 Chapter Fourteen 
JOSHUA TEACHES AND HEALS IN K’FAR NAHUM 75 
[The Beatitudes. Joshua sets fire to the Earth; 
Families divide over the God-man’s teachings.] 
 
 Chapter Fifteen 
A KIDNAPPING AND A WEDDING  80 
[Joshua sees trouble occur at a distance. 
The God-man returns a sheep, a man named 
Akhiezer, to the fold. The healing of the innkeeper 
Barrukh.] 
 
 Chapter Sixteen 
THE MINISTRY CONTINUES 84 
[The Sanhedrin sends spies to inform on Joshua. 
Judas plots. Joshua refuses a crown. 
He multiplies loaves and fishes and comes to  
his disciples on the sea. Yioussouf passes over.] 
 
 Chapter Seventeen 
IN THOUGHT, WORD AND DEED 91 
[Yioussouf is buried in Nazareth. Joshua goes to 
Yerushalayim for a Council of Essene Rayis Rabbis. 
The Essene Council considers its response to  
violence against the community. Joshua counsels 
them. Heals the ill and instructs his disciples.] 
 Chapter Eighteen  
MAKING MEN WHOLE 99 
[The Essene Council agrees to refuse Roman 
Citizenship and to heed Joshua’s advice. Joshua 
teaches on the dual-in-one. Heals lepers and  
small child.] 
 
 Chapter Nineteen 
OUR DAILY BREAD  108 
[Joshua frees a slave. Materialize his Mind 
Vitality and feeds a multitude. Teaches his  
disciple-healers on the Archangels and the Fallen 
Ones. Confronts a Sanhedrin informer.] 
 
 Chapter Twenty 
JOSHUA THE GREAT COMFORTER 115 
[Maria returns to K’far Nahum. Joshua, the Great 
Comforter, lifts a plague from Nain, and raises 
a boy from the dead. The healings of lepers in  
Dabrath. Joshua is transfigured on Mt. Tabor.  
Manasseh becomes an Essene novice] 
 
 Chapter Twenty-one 
JOSHUA THE MERCIFUL 121 
[Joshua, the Merciful, heals the ward of  
Centurion. He teaches his disciple-healers. 
His companion-disciples argue over who is first 
among them.] 
 
 Chapter Twenty-two 
THE LOVING AND FORGIVING GOD-MAN 129 
[Traveling to Yerushalayim, Joshua is ambushed. 
Instructs his disciple-healers in Yerushalayim. 
Confronts a Sanhedrin informer on the matter 
of taxes. Foretells his death and the fall of  
Yerushalayim. Teaches and heals.] 
 
 Chapter Twenty-three 
JOSHUA, THE LORD OF FORGIVENESS 140 
[Joshua, the Lord of forgiveness, saves a woman 
taken in adultery. Returns to K’far Nahum.  
Exorcises demons from Mary Magdalena.  
The God-man teaches and heals.] 
 
 Chapter Twenty-four 
MARIA MAGDALENA 147 
[Maria Magdalena, cleansed of sin, disposes of  
her property. She goes to Maria, mother of Joshua, 
to serve with her.] 
 
 Chapter Twenty-five 
JOSHUA, THE GOD-MAN, REVEALING HIS 
AND OUR SPIRIT-SOUL-REAL-EGO-SELF 150 
[Joshua quiets the storm. Teaches his disciple-healers  
revealing his and our Spirit-Soul-Real-Ego-Self.] 
 

 Chapter Twenty-six  
JOSHUA, THE GOD-MAN, EXPLAINS  
LIFE AND DEATH  156 
[Joshua instructs his disciple-healers on life and 
death. Teaches them how to raise consciousness. 
Delivers the Parable of the Lost Son.]  
 
 Chapter Twenty-seven 
THE GOD-MAN SHOWS THE WAY 160 
[Joshua the God-man shows the Way. 
He tells his disciple-healers what will 
happen soon in Yerushalayim.] 
 
 Chapter Twenty-eight 
THE AUTHOR OF LIFE  164 
[The God-man Joshua, the Mshiha, reassures his 
Friends. He goes to Yerushalayim where he teaches. 
He heals a Roman noble and raises Eliezar 
from the tomb.] 
 
 Chapter Twenty-nine 
THE CONSPIRACY 169 
[The Sanhedrin conspires to sentence Joshua 
to death. He is warned of the events.  
Joshua advises his friends in Bethania to leave 
Palestine.] 
 
 Chapter Thirty 
THE GOD-MAN’S INSTRUCTIONS 173 
[Joshua explains the lessons of his death and  
resurrection. He returns to K’far Nahum and teaches. 
The God-man heals Bedouin children.] 
 
 Chapter Thirty-one 
THE GOD-MAN REVEALS THE TRUTH 179 
[His last teachings in K’far Nahum. The God-man 
reveals the Truth and prepares for the journey.] 
 
 Chapter Thirty-two 
THE SUFFERING SERVANT 183 
[Joshua’s life and teaching a month before the 
crucifixion. He explains to his disciples in  
K’far Nahum what is to come. 
Joshua instructs and comforts the Rayis Rabbi  
before leaving K’far Nahum. He heals two children.] 
 
 Chapter Thirty-three 
IN YERUSHALAYIM 187 
[The return to Yerushalayim. Joshua is visited 
by his Roman friends. He teaches. 
Yiohannan counsels Yiassounai.] 
 
 Chapter Thirty-four 
THE PLOT 194 
[Kaiaphas plans the arrest, trial and crucifixion 
of Joshua. Judas is deceived into acting as accomplice. 
A night in the garden of Gethsemane.] 
 Chapter Thirty-five 
THE PASSION  197 
[Joshua teaches. He heals in Bethania. The Last Supper. 
The agony in Gethsemane. Judas’ betrayal. Joshua is 
seized, tried, and sentenced. He bears his cross. 
Yiassounai is wounded. Jesus is crucified.] 
 
 Chapter Thirty-six 
AFTER  THE CRUCIFIXION 211 
[Joshua is laid in a tomb. The God-man resurrects his 
body. Yiassounai passes over. Joshua appears to the  
Rayis Rabbi Ephraim and to Simon. He then appears 
and baptizes in K’far Nahum. He shows Thomas his  
wounds and instructs his disciples.] 
 
TABLE OF GENEALOGY 222 
 
EPILOGUE 223 
 
GLOSSARY 228 
 
 

13 
 
Introduction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absolute  Infinite  Authority  is  the  Logos,  and 
the Logos is in God and the Logos is God. He 
is  in Absolute  Authority  in  God.  All  things 
were  made  through  Him  and  without  Him 
nothing was made that was made.  
(cf. John 1: 1-3)  
 
 
 
In him (the God-man Joshua Immanuel, the Christ) is Life and the Life is the Light (the Selfhood) of 
men. And the Light shines in the darkness (human ignorance) and the darkness did not comprehend it 
(cf. John 1:4-5).  
          Who was, who is now, and who will always BE in eternity as a human being is Joshua the Son 
of  Man.  And  what  was,  what  is  now  and  what  will  BE  in  eternity,  is  Joshua  the  Son  of  God.  Was 
Joshua, as a person, simply a human being who lived twenty centuries ago for only thirty-three years, 
who was then crucified, and passed over to oblivion?  
          Joshua has always been and is part of the Logos. By his own free will the Logos incarnated and 
humanized  an  immaculate  Logoic  ray  of  himself as  Joshua  Immanuel;  implanting in  Joshua  his  full 
Divine Logoic nature. Aware of himself as the Logos God, Joshua said, ‘Before the foundation of the 
world, I am—in the eternal Now.’ (cf. John 17:24).  
          Joshua is now, and forever will be, eternal and everlasting Life, the Divine Selfhood, the King 
of the Heavens and of the Earth, the Light of the world.  
          As  a  human  being,  Joshua  was  aware  of  being  the  Selfhood in  every  human  being. As  the 
Logos,  the  Son  of  God,  he  knew  himself  as  God.  He  was  His  Divine  Majesty,  the  King  of  the 
Heavens and of the Earth.  
Then  the  King  will  say  to those  on  his  right  hand,  (Come,  you  blessed  of  my  Father,  inherit 
the Kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: for I was hungry and you gave me 
food; I was thirsty and you gave me drink; I was a stranger and you took me in; I was naked and you 
clothed me; I was sick and you visited me; I was in prison and you came to me;’ Then the righteous 
will  answer  him,  saying, ‘Lord  when  did  we  see  you  hungry  and  feed  you,  or  thirsty  and give  you 
drink?  When  did  we  see you  a  stranger  and  take  you  in,  or  naked  and  clothe  you?  Or  when  did  we 
see you sick, or in prison, and come to you?’ And the King will answer and say to them, Assuredly, I 
say to you, IN AS MUCH AS YOU DID IT TO ONE OF THE LEAST OF THESE MY BRETHREN, YOU DID 
IT TO ME. (Matthew 23:34-40) 

14 
 
        Twenty centuries ago in the garden of Gethsemane, just before the arrest he had foretold, Joshua 
knelt and prayed to his Father.  
        Then Joshua came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and said to the disciples, ‘sit here 
while  I  go  and  pray  over  there’ And  he  took  with  him  Peter  and  the  two  sons  of  Zebedee  and  he 
began to he sorrowful and deeply distressed. Then he said to them ‘My Soul is exceedingly sorrowful 
even to death. Stay here and watch with me.’ He went a little farther and fell on his face and prayed, 
saying, ‘O my Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as you 
will.’ (Matthew 26.36-39)  
        Was the cup of which Joshua spoke his martyrdom? He had predicted his crucifixion, describing 
in detail what would happen and assuring his disciples of his resurrection. And throughout his ordeal 
Joshua  showed  no  weakness.  Even  when  nailed  to  the  cross,  bleeding  to  death,  he  petitioned  his 
Father to forgive his killers because they did not know what they were doing.  
        No the cup that Joshua asked his Father to remove and asks yet, through all the centuries since 
was and is the blood he foresaw shed in his, and in his Father’s name. Christianity, the doctrine of life 
and love of God and of mankind, was founded on the instructions of the God-man, the Christ himself, 
after his resurrection as the Son of Man.  
        Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, to the mountain, which Joshua had appointed 
for  them.  And  when  they  saw  him  they  worshipped  him;  but  some  doubted.  Then  Joshua  came  and 
spoke to them, saying, ‘All Authority has been given to me in Heaven and on Earth Go therefore and 
make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the 
Holy  Spirit, teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  that  I  have commanded  you;  and lo,  I  am  with  you 
always.’ (Matthew 28:16-20) 
        The  persecution  of  Christians  in  Palestine  and  Cyprus,  following  the  crucifixion  of  Joshua 
Immanuel, the Christ, was upon orders of the Sanhedrin, and it continued until the open rebel lion of 
the  Israelites  in  Palestine  climaxed  in  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem in  60  A.D,  just  as Joshua  had 
foreseen. 
        Then  by  order  of  the  Roman  Caesars,  a  massive  and  bloody  persecution  of  Christians  spread 
throughout the Roman Empire. Atrocious crimes and inhuman tortures were inflicted upon its victims 
by  the  heathen  Roman  authorities,  usually  in  public  places  to  inflame  the  blood  lust  of  the  Roman 
masses.  
        As deep as these wounds were to Christianity and to the God-man Joshua, how much deeper and 
more   grievous   were   the   wounds   inflicted   after  the   fall   of the   Roman Empire   by   so-called 
‘Christians’?  
        The Christian ecclesiastical hierarchy regularly twisted the teachings of the God-man to suit and 
to  serve  personal  interests.  The  God-man,  an  Essene,  teaching  his  Essene  disciples  primarily  in 
ancient Greek, taught the law of Love. This sweetest commandment he gave his disciples in Greek:  
 
 
A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another; as I have loved you, that you also love 
one another. By that all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.  
(John 13.34, 35) 

15 
 
        St.  Paul  would  later  translate  this  great  commandment  into  Latin  for  the  Western  Church: 
Mandatum  novum  do  vobis,  ut  diligatis  invicem  sicut  dilexi  vos,  ut  et  vos  diligatis  invicem.  In  hoc 
cognoscent  omnes  quia  discipuli  mei  estis,  si  dilectionem  habueritis  ad  invicem.  (Evangelium 
Secundum Ioannem 13:34, 35) 
 
        The  ecclesiastical  authorities  and  dignitaries  disregarded  this  great  commandment  entirely 
splitting the Christian doctrine of love into dogmas, and heresies, spreading ill will and hatred among 
Christians.  
        Throughout  the  centuries  in  both  the  Eastern  and  Western  churches,  church  leaders  have 
committed countless crimes against Christians with whom they differed. Calling them heretics, they 
tortured  and  killed  them,  often  more  horribly  than  the  Romans  had.  The  so-called ‘Holy  Office’ or 
Inquisition  introduced  the auto-da-fe,  the  burning  alive  of  human  beings,  Christians, Jews,  and 
Moslems—in the name of the God of Love and Mercy. The tragic history of the ‘Christian’ church is 
defiled by the blood of innocents. And were not these tortures inflicted even on Joshua the Christ, on 
His  Divine  Majesty,  the  King  of the  Heavens  and  of  the  Earth?  For  whatever  is  done  to  another, 
whether it is good or evil, is done to His Divine Majesty, to the Son of Man, to Joshua Immanuel the 
Christ, and to the Logoic Selfhood of which every human being is part.  
        Through  the  centuries  Christianity,  the  doctrine  of  life,  love,  compassion  and  mercy,  has 
suffered grievously from the darkness of  human ignorance, malice, and prejudice. But at some time 
flit crucified Lord of the everlasting Life and Love, the Light of the world, will be resurrected in the 
hearts  of  all  Christians.  And  the  Holy  Churches  around the  world  will  be  united  again  into  a  tingle 
flock,  shepherded  by  the  God-man  Joshua  Immanuel,  the  Christ.  Will  it  not  then  please  God,  the 
Divine Father of His Beloved Son, to remove this bitter and most painful cup from Joshua, the Lamb 
of God, who takes away the sin of the world—Agnus Dei, ecce qui tollit peccatum mundi?  
(cf. John 1:29)    
  

16 
 
PREFACE  On the Nature of Truth  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I am the way, the truth, and the life. (John 14:6)  
Throughout  the  last  twenty  centuries  many  have  told  stories,  both orally  and  in  writing,  about  the 
God-man  Joshua  Immanuel,  the  Christ—stories  concerning  his  life,  his  purposes, and  his  teachings. 
Most of these stories have been colored by their human way of understanding.  
        Writers, attempting to write of a person’s life and of his teachings, frequently misrepresent the 
truth.  Sometimes  these  distortions  are  unintentional  but  they  are  often  deliberate.  Whatever  the 
reasons for distorting the real events and the true character of a person, such writers all too frequently 
present  their  readers  with  a  monstrosity,  the  creature  of  unbridled  imagination,  disfigured  by  their 
own  feelings  towards  the  subject.  Very  often they  are  influenced  by  hearsay  and  rumors  and  give 
their  readers  wrong  impressions.  Since  many  of  the  sources  of  information  are  unreliable,  what  is 
created is fantasy masquerading as fact.  
        Though it may seem that a writer is able to distort the Truth, the real Truth cannot be distorted. 
For  the  Truth  remains  ever  intact  in  the  universal  Mind:  the Cosmic  Consciousness  or  the  Cosmic 
Memory of the planet.  
        There  are  only  two  trustworthy  sources  of  information  on  the  God-man  Joshua  Immanuel,  the 
Christ. One is in the Gospels according to the Evangelists: St. Matthew, St. Mark, St.  Luke, and St. 
John. The other is in the Cosmic Consciousness of the planet.  
        The  Gospels  according  to  St.  John  and  St.  Luke  were  written  in  ancient  Greek,  while  the 
Gospels  according  to  St.  Matthew  and  St.  Mark  were  written  partly  in  ancient  Greek  and partly  in 
Aramaic. It is in the Gospel according to St. John, first cousin of the God-man Joshua Immanuel, the 
Christ, that the whole truth about the God-man is given.  
        Whatever has taken place on the planet—no matter how insignificant, in the life of a worm, of a 
plant, or of any other phenomenon of life—has been most accurately and permanently recorded in the 
Mind  Cosmic  Consciousness,  where  it can be  contacted  at  any  time.  By  raising  one’s Self-
consciousness to the higher levels of the Cosmic Consciousness of the planet and, by either ‘attuning’ 
one’s Self  to  the  time-and-place-space  where  someone  has  lived  or  by  the  so  called ‘at-one-ment’ 
with  an  object  of  study  (which  is  a  still  higher  level  of Self-consciousness), one  can  contact  in  the 
eternal  Now  the living  elemental  of  a  historical  person.  Only  then  can  one  see  and  experience  the 
actual events, the whole life of the person that one seeks to know.  
        In the higher levels of the Cosmic Consciousness, in the five-and six-dimensional worlds, where 
all the worlds of the other dimensions are also found, one can experience anything that has happened 
in the three-dimensional gross material world, and relive all past events three-dimensionally.  

17 
 
 CHAPTER ONE The People of Biblical Palestine  
[THE ROMANS, THE ISRAELITES, THE ESSENES, THE GREEKS, THE BEDOUINS.]  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I said, ‘You are gods, and all of you are children of the Most High...’ (Psalm 82:6)  
Twenty  centuries  ago  in  Palestine  there  lived  people  of  differing  races  and  religions;  people  with 
differing ways of understanding and of living.  
 
        THE ROMANS 
The Romans  were  the  conquerors  who  had  invaded and  occupied  Palestine.  Palestine and  nearly all 
the countries of the Middle East fell under Roman rule. The Romans were heathens, worshipping the 
Greek Olympian Gods and  Goddesses to  whom they  gave Latin names. Their languages were  Latin 
and Greek.  
        Among  the  Romans  living  in  Palestine  two  thousand  years  ago  were:  The  Governor  and  his 
family;  the  officers  and  employees  of  the  Roman  government  and  their  families;  the  soldiers, 
spearmen, archers, and swordsmen and their families; Roman commercial traders; as well as Romans 
who for various reasons chose to live there.  
        Caesar  recognized an  Israelite  King  under  his  orders  and  authority  and  the  Israelite Sanhedrin, 
the  highest  Israelite  religious  authority,  headed  by  the  Chief  High  Priest  with  an executive body  of 
Pharisees, Scribes and others appointed by the Chief High Priest.  
        Although  the  Romans  considered  the  Mosaic  Law  to  be  barbarous,  cruel  and  inhuman, the 
Sanhedrin  was  authorized  to  apply  that  law  to  the  non-Roman  citizens:  Israelites  and Essenes.  The 
Sanhedrin  cruelly  executed  many  Israelites  and  Essenes  by  such  savage  means  as stoning and 
crucifixion.  
        The Roman  Governor,  by  order  of  Caesar,  cunningly  offered  to  the  Israelites  and  the  Essenes 
Roman citizenship,  which  would  have  released  them  from  the  authority  of  the  insane  King  of  the 
Israelites, Herod, and of the Sanhedrin. Some prosperous Israelites accepted this offer.  
 
        THE ISRAELITES 
The Israelites  were  the  majority  of  the  population  grouped  as  Judeans,  Galileans,  Samaritans,  and 
others. They were very often hostile to one another. Their languages were Hebrew and Aramaic and, 
for some, Greek. They worshipped the God of Moses, the one God of the Heavens and of the Earth. 
But their God was cruel and jealous, visiting the iniquities of the fathers on the children to the third 
and fourth generation. Their God was vengeful, with many human vices.  
        The Israelites had long expected the coming of the Messiah—the Son of God—the Savior of the 
world and liberator of Palestine.  

18 
 
       THE ESSENES 
The Essenes of Palestine were Greco-Israelites, and were sometimes called Nazarenes. Their mother 
tongues  were  Greek  and  Aramaic.  Like  their  brother  Israelites,  the  Essenes  expected  the  coming  of 
the Messiah, but they believed He would be born into Palestine into an Essene community.  
        They were peace-loving people, worshipping the One Spirit God, the God of the Heavens and of 
the Earth; the God of Everlasting Life and Love; God Omnipresent, Omniscient, and Omnipotent. In 
the minds and hearts of the Essenes was enthroned that Spirit God, Father of all human beings, a God 
of  Love  and  Mercy  whom they  called Aton-ai.  Two  centuries  after  the  Exodus  from  Egypt  of  the 
Egyptian-Israelites  slaves  led  by  Moses,  the Pharaoh Amenophis  IV,  as Ankh-en-Aton,  denounced 
the false God and introduced in Egypt the worship of the One Spirit God who was the same God that 
the Essenes worshipped.* The main centers of the Essenes were Egypt: notably in Annu (Heliopolis) 
and  in Iskenderia (Alexandria).  There  were  other  centers  in  the  Middle  East  including  Palestine, 
Syria, and Cyprus. Most Essenes in Palestine were unwilling to separate themselves entirely from the 
Israelites by accepting citizenship from the heathen Roman infidels. And so they remained under the 
cruel yokes of Herod and the Sanhedrin. 
        The  Sanhedrin  considered  the  Essenes as heretics,  but  the  Israelite  Sanhedrin authorities were 
cautious and never said so openly since most of the scribes and some of the Pharisees were related to 
Essenes.  But the Sanhedrin would  lose  no opportunity  to  accuse  the  Essenes  of  violating  Mosaic 
Law.  
  
        THE GREEKS 
The Greeks of Palestine were Roman citizens and heathens who worshipped the Olympian Gods and 
Goddesses. They were scholars, artists, teachers, philosophers, writers, and commercial traders. Their 
languages were Greek and Latin, with a few speaking Aramaic. 
 
        THE BEDOUINS 
The Bedouins of Palestine were a nomadic Arab race. Most worshipped the One God of the Heavens 
and  of  the  Earth,  the  God  of  their  Father  Ibrahim  (Abraham),  calling  Him  ‘Allah’.  Some  also 
worshipped Fire and the Stars. For the most part, the Bedouins were horse breeders. Their languages 
were Arabic and Aramaic. A few wealthy Bedouins were also fluent in Greek and Latin. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*)  Were  the  Essenes  then  descendants  of  the  Egyptian-Israelites  who  had  remained  in  Egypt  accepting  the  worship  of  the  One  Spirit 
God, ATON, whom Ankh-en-Aton had introduced? Can this be only coincidence?  

19 
 
CHAPTER TWO The Essene Family of The God-Man Joshua Immanuel 
[THE HOLY FAMILY, HONORED BY THE LOGOS GOD 
INCARNATED AND HUMANIZED AS THE GOD-MAN JOSHUA, THE BIRTH OF ELIZABETH. 
THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION OF MARIA. 
MARIA’s DEDICATION TO THE TEMPLE AS A WHITE DOVE OF THE HEAVENS.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Twenty centuries ago the Chief Essene High Priest Yioakhim (Joachim) and his wife Hannah lived in 
a small house adjacent to the Essene temple in an exclusively Essene community in a neighborhood 
of Yerushalayim (Jerusalem). 
Hannah  was  the  sister  of  High  Priest  Shamaon  (Simeon),  a  scholar  and  scribe,  and  second in 
authority only  to  Yioakhim.  Shamaon  lived  in  the  temple  quarters,  having  dedicated  himself 
completely to God and was considered by the Essenes to be a prophet. 
Hannah and Yioakhim named their first daughter Elizabeth. Elizabeth married an Essene Priest, 
who  was  named Zakharias.  Although  barren,  she  gave  birth  to Yiohannan (St.  John  the Baptist)  by 
immaculate conception. 
There  was  in  the  days  of  Herod,  the  King  of Judea,  a  certain  priest  named  Zakharias,  of  the 
division  of Abijah.  His  wife  was  of  the  daughters  of Aaron,  and  her  name  was  Elizabeth.  And  they 
were both righteous before God, walking blameless in all the commandments and ordinances of the 
Lord.  But  they  had  no  child  because  Elizabeth  was  barren,  and  they  were  both  well  advanced in 
years. So it was, that while he was serving as priest before God in the order of his division, according 
to the custom of the priesthood, it fell to his lot to burn incense when he went into the temple of the 
Lord.  And  the  whole  multitude  of  the  people  was  praying  outside  at  the  hour  of incense.  Then  an 
Angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  to  him,  standing  on  the  right  side  of  the  altar  of incense.  And  when 
Zakharias  saw  him,  he  was  troubled,  and  fear  fell  upon  him.  But  the  Angel said  to  him, ‘Do  not  be 
afraid,  Zakharias,  for  your  prayer is  heard;  and  your  wife  Elizabeth  will bear  you  a  son  and  you 
shall call his name “Yiohannan.” And you will have joy and gladness, and many  will rejoice at his 
birth. For he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. He 
will  also  be  filled  with  the  Holy  Spirit,  even  from  his  mother’s womb.  And  he  will  turn  many  of  the 
children of Israel to the Lord their God. He will also go before him in the Spirit and power of Elijah, 
“to  turn  the  hearts  of the fathers  to  the  children,” and the  disobedient  to the  wisdom  of  the  just, to 
make  ready  a  people  prepared  for  the  Lord.’ And Zakharias  said  to  the  Angel, ‘How  shall  I  know 
this? For I am an old man and my wife is well advanced in years.’ And the Angel answered and said 
to him, ‘I am Gabriel, who stand in the presence of God, and was sent to speak to you and bring you 
these glad tidings. But behold, you will he mute and not able to speak until the day these things take 
place, because you did not believe my words which will be fulfilled in their own time.’ And the people 
waited for Zakharias, and marveled that he lingered so long in the temple. But when he came out, he 
could not speak to them; and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple, for he beckoned 
to them and remained speechless. And so it was, as soon as the days of his service were completed, 
that  he  departed  to  his own  house.  Now  after  those  days  his  wife  Elizabeth  conceived;  and  she  hid 

20 
 
herself five months, saying, ‘Thus the Lord has dealt with me, in the days when he looked on me, to 
take away my reproach among men.’ (Luke 1:5-25) 
Hannah,  the  wife  of  Yioakhim,  some  years  after  giving  birth  to  Elizabeth,  gave  birth  to  a 
second  daughter,  Myriam  Shalome.  Myriam  Shalome  became  the  wife  of  the  Essene  fisherman 
Shabbatai (Zebedee),  and  then  bore Yiacoub (James  the  Apostle)*.  By  immaculate  conception 
Myriam Shalome would also give birth to Yiohannan (St. John the Evangelist).  
Two  years  after  the  birth  of  Myriam  Shalome,  the  High  Priest  Yioakhim  had  passed  over in 
peace, and a year later Hannah, well advanced in years, found herself pregnant again—by immaculate 
conception. Hannah, in great wonder and awe, revealed her mysterious pregnancy to her brother, the 
High  Priest  Shamaon.  Shamaon  told  her  that  he  had  expected  it,  for  the Archangel  Gabriel,  had 
revealed to him that Hannah would conceive, by immaculate conception, and give birth to a daughter. 
The child would be dedicated to God as  a White Dove of the Heavens, according  to the rites of the 
Essenes.  She  would be  brought  up  in  the  temple  and  by immaculate  conception  (being  virgin  and 
remaining virgin and thus fulfilling the prophecy of Isaiah) she would give birth to the Messiah, the 
Son of God. Gabriel promised Shamaon that he would not pass over until he had held in his arms the 
son of his niece, the Messiah, and had circumcised him according to the rites of the Essenes. 
Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign: Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a 
Son, and shall call his name Immanuel (Isaiah 7:14) 
And  so  by  immaculate  conception  Hannah  gave  birth  to  Maria.  When  Maria  was  three years 
old  Hannah  covered  her  child’s head  with  a  white  cloth  and  dressed  her  in  white,  according  to  the 
Essene rites. She then took her to the Essene temple and gave her to the faithful care of her uncle, the 
High Priest Shamaon. Dedicated to God as a White Dove of the Heavens, it was Maria’s duty to live 
on the temple premises a life devoted to prayer and to service and care of the ill and aged.  
Shamaon,  now  well  advanced  in  years,  told  the  Essene  Elders  of  the  coming  birth  of  the 
Messiah and of the promise of the Archangel  Gabriel that he would not pass over  before holding in 
his arms the Messiah. 
When Maria was six years old her mother Hannah passed over in peace. This was fifteen years 
since  Elizabeth  had  married  the  Essene  priest,  Zakharias,  and  Myriam  Shalome  was betrothed  to 
Shabbatai (Zebedee). 
When  Maria  was  thirteen,  her  uncle  entrusted  her  to  an  Essene  carpenter,  a  widower, named 
Yioussouf, in  a  white  marriage, in  accordance  with  Essene  rites.  Yioussouf  had  four  sons and  two 
daughters. Three of his sons, Yiossaphat, Simon and Judas, were already married. The youngest son, 
Yiacoub, six years younger than Maria, lived with his father and his sisters, Tamar and Esther. 
Yioussouf’s duty,  according  to  the  custom  of  a  white  marriage,  was  to  protect  Maria, 
considering  her  one  of  his  daughters.  She  was  destined  to  remain a  virgin,  dedicated  to  God.  He 
offered  Maria  a  room  in  his  house,  large  and  well-lighted,  where  the  White  Dove  of  the Heavens 
might  prepare  her  altar  and  place  of  prayer.  Maria, together  with  Tamar  and  Esther, looked  after 
Yioussouf and Yiacoub. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*) Yiacoub became the first Christian Archbishop of Yerushalayim and Palestine and the second Christian martyr after 
Stephanos, murdered by order of the Sanhedrin.  

21 
 
CHAPTER THREE The Nativity 
[THE ANNUNCIATION. AN ANGEL APPEARS TO YIOUSSOUF.  
THE BIRTH OF JOSHUA IMMANUEL IN BETHLEHEM.  
THE THREE KINGS. HEROD’s CONSPIRACY. THE ESCAPE FROM BETHLEHEM.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It was two years later that Maria, now fifteen, was visited while she was at prayer by the Archangel 
Gabriel. 
     Now  after  those  days  Zakharias’ wife  Elizabeth  conceived;  and  she  hid  herself  five  months, 
saying, ‘Thus  the  Lord  has  dealt  with  me,  in  the days  when  he  looked  on  me,  to  take  away  my 
reproach among men.’ Now in the sixth month the Angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee 
named  Nazareth,  to  a  virgin  betrothed  to  a  man  whose  name  was  Yioussouf,  of  the  house of  David. 
The virgin’s name was Maria. And having come in, the Angel said to her: ‘Rejoice, highly honored 
and favored One, the Lord is with you; blessed are you among women.’ But when she saw him, she 
was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was. Then the Angel said to 
her, ‘Do not be afraid, Maria, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in 
your  womb  and  bring  forth a  Son,  and  shall  call  his  name Joshua.  He  will  be great,  and  will  be 
called the Son of the Highest; and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And he 
will reign over the house of  Yiacoub forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.’ Then Maria 
said to the Angel: ‘How can this be, since I do not know a man?’ And the Angel answered and said to 
her, ‘The  Holy  Spirit  will  come  upon  you,  and  the  power  of  the Highest  will  overshadow  you; 
therefore, also, that Holy One who is to be born will he called the Son of God. Now indeed, Elizabeth 
your  relation  has  also  conceived  a  son  in  her  old  age;  and this is now  the  sixth  month  for  her  who 
was  called  barren.  For  with  God  nothing  will  be  impossible.’ Then  Maria  said; ‘Behold  the 
maidservant of the Lord! Let it be to me according to your word.’ And the Angel departed from her. 
(Luke 1:24-38) 
     Yioussouf  had  not  given  much  thought  to  Shamaon’s announcement  that  the  White  Dove of  the 
Heavens,  Maria,  would  give  birth  by  immaculate  conception  to  the  Messiah,  the  Son  of God.  So 
when Maria herself informed him of her pregnancy he was bewildered. 
     Now the birth of Joshua Immanuel, the Christ was as follows: After his mother was betrothed to 
Yioussouf, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Yioussouf her 
husband,  being  a  just  man,  and  not  wanting  to  make her  a  public  example,  was minded  to  put  her 
away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold an Angel of the Lord appeared to him 
in a dream, saying, ‘Yioussouf son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Maria, your wife, for that 
which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his 
name  Joshua,  for  he  will  save  the  people  from  their  sins.’ Now  all  this  was  done  that  it  might  be 
fulfilled  which  was  spoken  by  the  Lord  through  the  prophet, saying: ‘Behold,  a  virgin  shall  be  with 

22 
 
child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel’ which is translated ‘God is in us.’ Then 
Yioussouf, being aroused from  sleep, did as the Angel of the Lord commanded him and took to him 
his wife and did not know her (who she was) till she had brought forth her first-born and only Son. 
And he called his name Joshua. (Matthew 1:18-25) 
      And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world 
should be registered. This census first took place while Quirinius was governing Syria. So all went to 
be  registered,  everyone  to  his  own  city. And  Yioussouf  also  went  up  from  Galilee,  out of  the city  of 
Nazareth,  into  Judea,  to  the  city  of  David,  which  is  called  Bethlehem,  because  he was  of  the  house 
and lineage of David, to be registered with Maria, his betrothed wife, who was with child. 
(Luke 2:1-5) 
      Yioussouf  and  Maria  rode  to  Bethlehem  to  be  registered  as  by  order  of  Caesar  Augustus. They 
were very tired, but Yioussouf could find no suitable place for them to spend the night, as all the inns 
and houses in Bethlehem were full. There was, however, near the town a large cave where a man by 
the  name  of  Nathaniel  kept  two  cows  and  a  flock  of  sheep.  On  this  mild  night Nathaniel  and  his 
shepherds had taken the flock out in the field. His cave was lit with two resinous torches fixed on the 
walls, and it was their light that beckoned Yioussouf and Maria.  
      In  a  corner  of  the  cave  near  an  empty  manger  Yioussouf  prepared  a  place  for  Maria  to  rest on 
some  woolen  cloths.  Yioussouf  found  two  empty  buckets,  and  he  took  these  to  the  well  outside  for 
fresh water. When he returned with the buckets full, he found Maria sitting with her baby son in her 
arms. Maria had given birth to the Messiah without the help of any human being,  without pain, and 
without staining the cloths. She had taken the white cloth with which a White Dove of the Heavens 
covered her head to swaddle the God-child. The body of Joshua needed no washing. Maria placed her 
son  in  the  empty  manger  on  some  clean  pieces  of  white cloth.  Yioussouf  was  greatly  confused, 
unable to comprehend that the Son of God could be born in a cave and laid in a manger. 
      Nathaniel,  whose  house  was  by  the  cave,  and  his  shepherds  returned,  their  torches  lit,  and knelt 
before the manager. They told Yioussouf and Maria that the angels had announced to them, as they 
tended their flock in the field, the birth of the Son of God. 
      Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their 
flock by night. And behold, an Angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone 
around  them,  and  they  were  greatly  afraid.  Then  the  Angel  said  to  them,  (Do  not  be  afraid, for 
behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which will be to all people. For there is born to you this 
day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you: You will 
find a babe wrapped in swaddling cloths, lying in a manger.’ And suddenly there was with the Angel 
a  multitude  of  the  Heavenly  Host  praising  God  and  saying: ‘Glory  to  God  in  the  highest, and  on 
Earth peace, good will towards men.’ (Luke 2:8—14) 
      Nathaniel asked Yioussouf and Maria to bring the child to his house, and Maria with her son in 
her  arms  followed  Yioussouf  and  Nathaniel  there.  She  put  the  baby  in  a  manger-like cradle  in  the 
entrance  of  the  house.  The  shepherds  returned  to  the  flock.  Nathaniel,  Yioussouf, and  Maria 
exhausted, slept. 
      Nathaniel  and  Yioussouf  were  roused  at  dawn  by  the  sound  of  camel  bells  and  a  knock  on the 
door. Opening his door Nathaniel discovered three Kings with their attendants, nine camels, and three 
horses in his yard. 
      The Maharajah  Rama  Tavaivahan presented  himself  to  Yioussouf  and  Nathaniel,  introduced 
them to his friend and counselor Chekhitana, and to the Armenian King Gaspar, and his attendants. 
The Bedouin Sheikh stepped forward introducing himself and his two attendants. The Maharajah then 
approached  the child,  took  off  his purple,  royal  garment  and  placed  it around  the  cradle.  He  then 
removed his sword, put his right foot on a stool, and pressing the sword against his thigh, broke it in 

23 
 
two.  Laying  the  two  pieces  of  the  broken  sword  by  the  manger-cradle  where  the  God-child  lay,  he 
said, ‘My Lord, at your feet is all power and authority.’ Then he knelt by the manger praying. Beside 
him Chekhitana also prayed. 
      His  prayers  said,  the  Maharajah  stood  and  looking  down  upon  the  child,  exclaimed, ‘Ham  El 
Khior!’ (Sanskrit: I see God). Thereafter the Maharajah Rama Tavaivahan was called Ham El Khior. 
      The Maharajah beckoned to one of his attendants to approach with a large wooden box. He placed 
this at the feet of the Virgin Mother saying, ‘My Lady, mother of the Son of God, accept this token of 
our love. It is gold and you will soon have need of it.’ 
      Turning  to  Yioussouf  the  Maharajah said, ‘Dear  brother,  you  must  be  away  from  here  by noon. 
Take the Son of God and his mother away from Bethlehem and out of Palestine. King Herod means 
to find and kill the King of the Heavens.’ 
      The  Armenian  King  Gaspar,  with  his  cousin  Prince  Manushak,  knelt  before  the  God-child. 
Gaspar  grasped the manger in both hands and pressing his forehead against it, he wept saying, ‘My 
Lord, Son of the Almighty, you guided us here with your bright star to humble ourselves before your 
Divine  Majesty.  My  Lord  and  God  of  Love,  have  mercy  on  us.  Have  mercy  on  mankind.  No  more 
wars, Lord. No more bloodshed. The Earth is already so deeply stained with human blood. Let there 
be  no  more conspiracies,  Lord,  no  more  assassinations.  I  have  given my  power  to  my  twin  brother, 
Dikran and I have pledged myself to serve him. Guide us, oh Lord, to peace.’ 
      From  the  hands  of  an  attendant  Prince  Manushak  took  an  incense  burner.  He  filled  it  with the 
burning  charcoal  which  Nathaniel  provided  and  put  incense  on  it.  The  house  filled  with  its lovely, 
inspiring  aroma.  King  Gaspar  presented  the  Virgin  Mother  with  a  box  full  of  incense  and a  bag  of 
gold. 
      The Bedouin Sheikh Baal-das-Aaussar (The Servant of God Osiris) approached the Holy Family 
with  his  attendants,  bowing  before  the  God-child,  glorifying  Allah,  the  One  God,  the God  of  their 
father Ibrahim. And mounting their horses and camels, the pilgrims departed Bethlehem. 
      Yioussouf, thanking Nathaniel and following the advice of the Maharajah Ham-El-Khior secretly 
left Bethlehem. Yioussouf and Maria were disguised in Bedouin robes provided them by the Sheikh 
Baal-das-Aaussar (Baldassar, Balthazar). 
 
 
 
  

24 
 
CHAPTER FOUR The Holy Family in Egypt 
[PREPARATIONS FOR THE JOURNEY. THE CIRCUMCISION OF JOSHUA IMMANUEL 
IN YERUSHALAYIM. THE FLIGHT INTO EGYPT. THE ESSENES OF EGYPT. THE BOYHOOD OF JOSHUA. 
THE LAW COMPLETED. MIRACLES. DEPARTURE FOR PALESTINE.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  Nazareth  lived  the  three  married  sons  of  Yioussouf:  Yiossaphat,  Simon,  and  Judas  with  their 
families.  In K’far Nahum (Capernaum)  Yioussouf’s daughter,  Tamar,  lived  with  her  husband  and 
Yioussouf’s widowed mother-in-law. 
Explaining  that  he  had  to  escape with  Maria  and  the  baby  to  Egypt,  Yioussouf  asked  his 
daughter  Esther,  to  take  Yiacoub  to  his  grandmother  in K’far  Nahum.  Then  Yioussouf  asked 
Yiossaphat to sell his workshop, tools, and all moveable property in Nazareth with the profits to go to 
Esther for the support of the family in K’far Nahum. 
Yiossaphat, who was a carpenter and a builder and repairer of carts, had worked for some years 
with his father and then in his own shop. He built for Yioussouf and Maria a strong, covered cart with 
four wheels thick enough to travel over sand. And Yioussouf bought a strong ox to pull it. 
And on the eighth day after the birth of Joshua Immanuel, Yioussouf and Maria dressed again 
as  Bedouins  and  concealing  the  baby  in  the  cart,  took  the  God-child  to  the  Essene  suburb  of 
Yerushalayim  to  present  him  to  God  in  the  Essene  temple  according  to  the  Essene  rites of 
circumcision. Shamaon, the Rayis Rabbi (High Priest), the uncle of Maria, received Joshua 
in  the  temple.  And  then  as  Gabriel  had  promised,  he  held  the  Messiah  in  his  arms  and  circumcised 
him, naming him as Gabriel had instructed, ‘Joshua Immanuel’. 
And  behold  there  was  a  man  in  Jerusalem  whose  name  was  Shamaon,  and  this  man  was  just and 
devout, waiting  for  the  consolation  of  Israel,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  was  upon  him.  And  it  had been 
revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord’s Christ. 
So he came by the Holy Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Joshua, to 
do for him according to the custom of the Law, he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said: 
‘Lord,  now  you  are  letting  your  servant depart  in  peace,  according to your  word;  for my eyes  have 
seen  your  salvation  which  you  have  prepared  before  the  face  of  all  peoples,  a  light  to bring 
revelation  to  the  Gentiles  (the  Essenes?)  and the glory of your people Israel.’  And  Yioussouf and 
Joshua’s mother  marveled  at  those  things  which  were  spoken  of  him.  Then  Shamaon  blessed them 
and said to Maria his mother, ‘Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel, 
and  for  a  sign  which  will  be  spoken  against  (yes,  a  sword  will  pierce through  your  own Soul  also), 
that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.’ (Luke 2:25-35) 
Then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise men was exceedingly angry: and he 
sent forth and put to death all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all its districts from 
two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. 
(Matthew 2:16) 

25 
 
Shamaon summoned the Essene Elders, Rabbis, and scholars to present Joshua, the Godchild to 
them, saying in Aramaic, ‘Rejoice, beloved, as my heart rejoices now. The Spirit of God he with you. 
The Ruach Elohim (the Spirit of God), and the Zauir Anpin (the Logos) have given me the honor of 
presenting to you the Beni Alaha (the Son of God). The Shaddai El (the Almighty God) be blessed.’ 
‘Joshua Immanuel, son of the Virgin, a White Dove of the Heavens who grew up in this temple, 
is the expected One, the Mshiha (Messiah). I present to you the Beni Alaha, the Mshiha. Herod, the 
mad King of  Israel, is at this hour killing innocent newborn boy children, in and near Bethlehem in 
the belief that he will thus kill the King of the Heavens. I have advised the family to leave Palestine 
and  go  to  our  brothers  in  the  Essene  community  of  Heliopolis  in  Egypt.  The Rayis  Rabbi  there, 
Nathanael,  will  be  greatly  honored  to  give  sanctuary  to  the Beni  Alaha. Yioussouf and  Maria  must 
depart at once, and we will undertake to send them safely.’ 
The Rabbi Ephraim, upon the instructions of Rayis Rabbi Shamaon, arranged with the Bedouin 
Abdullah,  a  good  friend  of  the  Essenes  and  a  leader  of  caravans,  to  escort  the  Holy Family to  the 
safety  of  Egypt.  The  Essene  elders  warned  the  Bedouin  to  avoid  Bethlehem,  traveling  east  from 
Yerushalayim to Jerikho, along the eastern shore of the Dead Sea, and then westward to the northern 
coast of Egypt, where the Nile flows into the sea. There was no time to waste. The Rayis Rabbi and 
the elders warned Maria and Yioussouf that they must flee Palestine without delay. 
And so the caravan departed with the Holy  Family disguised as  Bedouins, and concealing the 
infant. There were in that caravan forty-six camels, carrying goods to sell in Egypt, and sixteen carts 
loaded  with  travelers  and  goods.  Ten  well-armed  Bedouin  guards  on  horseback accompanied  the 
travelers.  The  journey  was  uneventful.  Abdullah  did  his  best  to  provide Yioussouf  and  Maria  with 
every possible comfort, good food, and fresh water. 
In  due  time  they  arrived  at  a  village  by  the  sea  on  the  eastern  outflow  of  the  Nile,  where 
Yioussouf and Maria intended to stay for a time. It was a poor village of Essene fishermen. But the 
Rabbi provided Yioussouf the clothing he required and a new robe of snow-white linen for Maria, the 
White Dove of the Heavens, and a snow-white cloth for her head. 
When   Yioussouf   tried   to   pay   Abdullah,   the   Bedouin   said   that   the   Essene   Elders   in 
Yerushalayim  had  already paid  him  well  and  that  it  had  been  a  great  honor  and  pleasure  to  serve 
them.  And  he  gave  Maria  a  goat,  that  Joshua  might  be  nourished  with  her  fresh  milk.  The  Holy 
Family would remain in that Essene fishing village for six months. 
 
TO BETTER UNDERSTAND, WHO THESE ESSENES LIVING IN EGYPT WERE, 
WE NEED TO KNOW SOME HISTORY. 
In the  year  1600  B.C.  in  Khemt  (Egypt)  there  were  Egyptians  worshipping  many  false  gods; there 
were Greeks also worshipping false gods and goddesses; the Yiatnanese (Greco-Egyptians) however, 
and the Egyptian-Israelites (descendants of Yioussouf, son of Yiacoub) worshipped One God. 
Prince Kniu-Mu  Mosis (Moses)  was  born  to  Egyptian-Israelite  slaves  in  1570  B.C.  Many 
Egyptian-Israelites  had  been  forced  into  slavery  under  the  yoke  of  Greeks  or  Egyptians  by  their 
inability to  pay  oppressive  taxes.  Mosis  was  adopted  by  the  barren,  widowed  sister  of  the Pharaoh 
Amen Ophis I. When Amen Ophis died, his son Thothmosis IV, was crowned Pharaoh of Egypt. The 
Prince Kniu-Mu  Mosis,  a  high  hierophant, was  so  embittered  by  this  that  he killed  in  himself  the 
Egyptian Prince (cf. Exod. 2:12) and became an Israelite—son of the Israelite Patriarchs: Ibrahim, Is-
Shakh, Yiacoub, and Yioussouf.  
Mosis, using his magical powers as a hierophant against the Egyptians, freed the Israelite from 
the state and from their Egyptian and Greek masters and led them back to Palestine they might freely 
worship the One God of their Fathers. 

26 
 
In  1370  B.C.  Pharaoh  Amen  Ophis  IV  gave  himself  the  name  Ankh-en-Aton,  denouncing the 
false gods of the Egyptians, ending idolatry, and introducing the worship of the One True Spirit God 
ATON.  The  Egyptian  Israelites  who  remained  in  Egypt  and  the  Greco-Egyptians accepted  this  One 
True Spirit God as their own. 
Over  the  next  centuries  the  Essenes  appeared,  first  in  Egypt,  and  later  in  Cyprus, Palestine, 
Syria and elsewhere. These Essenes worshipped the One Spirit God, the God of the Heavens and of 
the  Earth,  a  God  of  Life  and  Love,  Omnipresent,  Omnipotent  and  Omniscient. Influenced  by  the 
Israelites of Palestine the Essenes accepted the Ten Commandments Mosis had passed down to them, 
the Zohar, and the Sepher Yetzirah (the Jewish Book of Creation), but cleansed these harsh doctrines 
of cruelty and narrow-mindedness. 
 
The Essenes worshipped: 
 
 
 
One  God of  the Heavens  and  of  the  Earth,  God  of  Life  forever  and  ever  in  eternity,  God  of  Light, 
Lord of Love-Truth, One God, God of the underworld, God Aton, ATON-AI Lord and King. 
 
While Maria and Yioussouf dwelled in the fishing village, they lived in the house of the Rabbi 
Davout. Rachel, the Rabbi’s wife, was of great help to Maria in caring for Joshua. One day the Rayis 
Rabbi  Nathanael,  from  the  Essene  community  of  Annu  (Heliopolis),  visited  the little  village  on  the 
coast.  He  told  Maria  that  her uncle  Shamaon,  the  Rayis  Rabbi  of Yerushalayim,  had  passed  over  in 
peace  and  that  Rabbi  Ephraim,  who  had  succeeded  him,  sent them  his  love.  Nathanael  asked 
Yioussouf  and  Maria  to  accompany  him  to  Heliopolis  and  live there.  He  offered  Maria,  the  White 
Dove of the Heavens, to supervise the Essene Home for the ill and aged in the premises of the temple 
and  care  for  the  temple  and  the  Essene  synagogue. With  pleasure  Maria  accepted  these  duties. 
Yioussouf,  Maria,  and  Joshua  Immanuel,  now  a child  of  nine  months, traveled  with  Nathanael  to 
Heliopolis. 
The  Essene  community  in  Heliopolis  was  quite  prosperous.  Nathanael  offered  Yioussouf, 
Maria and Joshua a large, comfortable house next to the temple. The temple and the synagogue stood 
on  the  banks  of  the  Nile,  surrounded  by  extensive  gardens  and  by  ten  large  houses  for  the Rayis 
Rabbi, the Rabbis, and some other citizens. Beyond lay the Home for the ill and aged. 
The baby Joshua never cried nor complained. And, unlike other children, he was never noisy or 
angry. He was always calm and quiet with a healing smile for all, ready always to help and comfort 
others.  Nathanael  saw  the  sick  and  suffering,  whom  he  brought  to  Joshua,  always healed  by  the 
child’s touch, even of serious and ‘incurable’ illnesses. 

27 
 
At  two  Joshua Immanuel,  alone  in  the  gardens,  would  call  down  birds  to  him,  holding them 
gently, stroking them. Wild ducks from the river, tortoises, even wild cats and jackals came into the 
garden  to  play  with  the  God-child.  Large  wild  cats  played  with  him  like  kittens. And  venomous 
snakes, three and four feet long, he would hold and caress, forbidding anyone to harm them. Once a 
young  Rabbi,  seeing  Joshua  with  a  huge  snake,  approached  them  silently  and  struck  the  serpent, 
crushing its skull. Joshua, smiling gently, prevented the Rabbi from striking another blow, stroked the 
snake’s head, making it whole again, and released it. The young Rabbi was rubbing his eyes to make 
sure he had not been dreaming. Maria never worried when Joshua was alone in the garden with wild 
creatures knowing that nothing could harm her little son. 
The  Essene  temple  on  the  eastern  bank  of  the  Nile  was  a  square  building,  sixty  feet  by sixty 
feet.  The  main  part  was  a  hall,  forty  feet  by  forty  feet.  The  eastern  end  was  the  Holy  of Holies,  a 
room measuring twenty feet by twenty feet. To the left and right of the Holy of Holies were two more 
rooms, also twenty by twenty in size. There were four other rooms, two on each side of the main hall, 
each twenty by ten. There were no doors, only arches, and windows three feet square, eight feet from 
the  ground,  giving  ample  light.  A  thick  and  very  heavy  curtain  of yellow  wool  covered  the  arch 
separating the main temple from the Holy of Holies. 
Centered   six   feet   above   the   altar   on   the 
eastern  wall  was  a  four foot  square  opening that 
allowed  the  rising  sun  to  light  the  Holy of  Holies. 
The altar was a heavy table of hard wood, eight feet 
by  six  feet,  covered  with  a snow-white  cloth  of 
embroidered  linen.  In four  large  bronze  vases,  two 
on  each  side, there  were  always  fresh  flowers.  The 
sun-light illuminated two snow-white tablets placed 
on  the  center  of  the  altar.  On  these heavy,  marble 
tablets,  three  inches  thick  and four  feet  long  by 
three feet wide, were inscribed in golden letters the 
Ten Commandments in Aramaic. Before each of the 
tablets was   a   tall,   bronze   candlestick.   A   large 
bronze lamp, a bowl with a thick wick and filled 
with  olive  oil,  burned  continuously  in  front of  the 
tablets. 
Three wooden steps rose to the altar. The top one was four feet wide and eight feet long, four 
feet above the floor. The middle step was eight by three at a three-foot level. And the bottom one was 
eight  by  two,  a  foot  and  a  half  from  the  floor.  These  stairs  and  part  of  the  floor were  covered  by  a 
canary yellow carpet, eight by ten feet. The heavy yellow curtain that separated the main temple from 
the Holy of Holies was nearly always in place. 
One Sabbath day at noon the Rayis Rabbi entered the Holy of Holies to check the wick of the 
lamp and was astonished to see that the two great marble tablets had been moved to the 1eft side of 
the altar, and the huge bronze lamp placed to the rear where it glowed with uncommon brilliance. On 
the  third  step  lay  a  child’s sandals,  and  there  on  the  altar  slept  the  two-year-old child,  Joshua 
Immanuel. 
How  could  it  be  possible,  Nathanael  wondered,  for  a  two-year-old  to  climb  the  altar,  move 
those heavy tablets and the lamp without spilling the oil over the altar cloth? Awe-struck, he rushed 
away to find Maria, and when he returned with Maria to the Holy of Holies, they found Joshua sitting 
on the step, putting on his sandals. Maria embraced her little God-son saying nothing and led them all 
from the Holy of Holies. 

28 
 
For  six  months  on  the  first  Sabbath  of  the  month,  this  event  was  repeated,  and  six  times 
Nathanael, unable to grasp what was happening, had replaced the tablets in the center of the altar and 
the  lamp  before  the  Ten  Commandments.  On  the  first  Sabbath  of  the  seventh  month Maria  asked 
Nathanael  to  lock  the  door  of  the  temple  until  noon.  Joshua  was  playing  in  the temple  yard  as 
Nathanael  locked  the  door,  taking  the  key  with  him.  There  was  no  other  entrance to  the  temple,  for 
the openings in the wall were eight feet from the ground. 
When at noon the Rayis Rabbi unlocked the door and entered the Holy of Holies, he found the 
tablets  moved  again  with  Joshua  sitting  on  the  altar.  The  dazzling  light  emanating from  the  child’s 
body blinded the Rayis Rabbi. And the child spoke, ‘The Ten Commandments are prohibitions given 
by  Mosis  to  the  Israelites.  For  the  Essenes,  however,  are  the  gentle  per suasions  of  God  to  His 
offspring: Love the Lord, your God in you, and the Lord, your God in every other human being.’ 
Then the words of Shamaon echoed in Nathanael’s mind, ‘My dear brethren, rejoice; share 
my joy. I present to you the Mshiha, the Son of God, the Son of Maria the Virgin, White Dove of the 
Heavens.’ So  at  last  Nathanael  understood  what  the Ruach  Elohim (the  Holy  Spirit)  and the  God-
child  Joshua  Immanuel  as  a  pure  Ray  of  the Zauir  Anpin (the  Logos)  were  telling  him. He  knelt 
before  Joshua,  the  God-child,  at  the  altar  saying, ‘Beni  Alaha,  Divine  child.  The  tablets of  the  Ten 
Commandments  will  remain  on  the  left  of  the  altar  as  you  want  them  to  be.  My  Lord, the  altar  is 
yours, everything everywhere is yours. You have under your command all of nature.’ You restore the 
ill  to  health.  Please  forgive  my  narrow-mindedness  to  have  seen  you  as  a two-year-old  child  only. 
Have  mercy  upon  us.’ The  Rayis  Rabbi  then  took  the  boy’s bare  feet  in  both his  hands  and  kissed 
them. 
Joshua came down from the altar to embrace and kiss the kneeling Nathanael. The Rayis Rabbi 
embraced  the  God-child,  kissing  both  his  hands  and  helped  Him  put  his  sandals  on. Maria,  upon 
entering  the  temple,  saw  Nathanael  and  Joshua  in  the  Holy  of  Holies  and  under stood  everything. 
This  was  a  gentle  lesson  she  had  given  the  Rayis  Rabbi.  Nathanael  kissed Maria’s white  robe,  the 
robe of the White Dove of the Heavens, devoted to the service of God and of her son, the Beni Alaha. 
From  age six, Joshua  attended  the Essene  school  under  the  supervision  of  Rabbi Ezekiel. The 
school near the synagogue was cared for by Ezekiel and by Maria. There Essene Rabbis taught Latin, 
Greek  and  Aramaic.  And  others  taught  the Torah and  parts  of  the Sepher  Yetzirah. By  the  age  of 
eight, Joshua  taught  the  Rabbis,  in  an  amazing  and  most  convincing  way,  of  the work  of  the 
Archangels  of  the  Elements  in  the  creation  of  the  worlds  of  existence,  interpreting the Sepher 
Yetzirah,  and  adding  to  the  six Perakins (chapters)  and  the  thirty-three Mishnas (sections),  always 
beginning  and  ending  these  lessons  with the  words: ‘Alaha  Ateh  Gibor  Leolam Aton-ai ’ (God,  you 
are Almighty forever, O Lord). 
Rabbi  Ezekiel suffered  from  a  bad  smelling  skin  disease.  At  night  his  skin  itched  so 
tormentingly that open wounds bled all over his body and as the condition worsened, he sometimes 
lost consciousness. The Rayis Rabbi advised him to ask Joshua to heal him, but as much as Ezekiel 
appreciated Joshua’s great intelligence, he considered Nathanael’s reports of the God-child’s healing 
powers  to  be  exaggerations  and  refused  to  ask  for  help  from  a  nine year-old.  Then  one  day  while 
teaching,  Rabbi  Ezekiel lost  consciousness,  falling  to  the ground.  When  he  came to,  he  saw  Joshua 
passing his right hand over his body. His body shook with a warm shiver, and he was cured. Ezekiel 
adored Joshua but was as yet unready to accept him as the Beni Alaha. Rather he saw him as a great 
Asa (healer). Joshua was ten when the Rayis Rabbi Nathanael passed over in peace and Rabbi Ezekiel 
became the Rayis Rabbi. 
When Joshua was a boy of nine, Ezekiel gave him the authority to preach in the synagogue and 
to  teach  in  the  Essene  school,  instructing  the  community  on  the  nature  of  the Omnipresent, 
Omniscient,  Omnipotent Alaha;  the  Great  Be-ness, his  Father,  and  the Zauir Anpin the  Absolute 

29 
 
Infinite Beingness, the Logos, being himself as a human being, a pure Ray of that Logos and Ruach 
Elohim (the Holy  Spirit). Joshua taught them of an Alaha Shaddai El (God Almighty) and preached 
on the 32 paths of wisdom in the Zohar. And he gave new meaning to the Torah completing the Law, 
explaining the qualities of the Ain Soph Aur (the boundless, inextinguishable, creative Light). 
By  the  time  he  was  ten,  Joshua  had  many  times  dematerialized  his  material  body,  re-
materializing it at will, to the great amazement of those who chanced to witness these wonders. The 
Rayis  Rabbi  Ezekiel,  unable  to  comprehend  who  Joshua  was,  was  satisfied  simply  to  love  him, as 
much as a human being might. 
When he was eleven, Joshua asked Ezekiel to place the two tablets of the Ten Commandments 
to the left side of the altar and place in the center of the altar an equal-sided triangular marble tablet 
on which was written in Greek: 
 
 
 
I am the Lord God. Your God in Your BE-ing. Love the Lord, Your God, in You, in Your BE-ing 
Self. And love Your God in every human being as your Self. 
 
And so the Essene Rayis Rabbi Ezekiel in Heliopolis, Egypt was the first Rayis Rabbi to place 
in  the  middle  of  the  altar  of  the  Holy  of  Holies  the  new  tablet  with  the  Word  of  God  to Man,  the 
Word of the eleven-year old God-boy to his human brethren. 
‘I did not come to the world,’ said Joshua, ‘to transgress or abolish the Law but to give you the 
Law more complete. I have come to the material world to reveal Our Father’s great Love for all His 
offspring.’ 
When asked, ‘Who are you?’ Joshua would reply in Aramaic, ‘Ehyeh Asher Ehyeh – Beni 
Alaha, Beni Adonai Melekh’ meaning, ‘I am that I AM — Son of God — Son of the Lord King.’ 
Nearly  every  morning  Joshua  Immanuel  went  alone  to  the  banks  of  the  Nile.  Sometimes 
Ezekiel followed him secretly, hiding in the brush. There Joshua Immanuel with hands out stretched 
and open to the sky, to the Heavens, said aloud in Greek and sometimes in Aramaic: 
 

30 
 
Kodoish, Kodoish, Kodoish, Adonai Alaha, Aba, Shaddai El. 
Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God, the Father, the Almighty God. 
 
 
 
One   morning   so   saying,   Joshua   dematerialized   his   body, disappearing   from   sight   and 
rematerialized it  beside  Ezekiel,  smiling  and  holding  his  hand.  Ezekiel  knelt  before  him  saying, 
‘Joshua Beni Alaha, Shaddai El, now I know my beloved Son of God.’ 
For  the  next  three  years  Joshua  Immanuel  preached,  teaching  of his  Father’s Kingdom  of the 
Heavens  in  our  Spirit  Being.  In  the  Essene  synagogue  he  revealed  to  the  community  the Divine 
nature  of  the  human  being  as  Ego-Self  Soul  and  as  Ego-Self  Spirit  Being  and  the  Spirit’s and  the 
Soul’s everlasting  Life.  He  taught  the  Essenes  to  love  God,  their  Heavenly  Father,  and all  other 
human beings as themselves. 
Joshua   Immanuel   was   almost   twelve   when   Herod,   the   mad   King   of   Israel,   died   in 
Yerushalayim,  and  the  Archangel  Gabriel  told  Yioussouf  and Maria  to  return  to  Palestine.  It took 
three months for the news of Herod’s death to reach the Rayis Rabbi Ezekiel from the Rayis Rabbi in 
Yerushalayim. Ezekiel told Maria and Yioussouf, who then told Ezekiel of the instructions of Gabriel 
and of their decision to return to Palestine. 
Though Ezekiel was deeply grieved to see Joshua, Maria, and Yioussouf leave Heliopolis, and 
though  he  tried  earnestly  to  persuade  them  to  change  their  minds,  Joshua  Immanuel  replied  that  he 
had to go the Way (his destiny) the Divine Plan had set for him. This was beyond the understanding 
of the Rayis Rabbi. 
Since Khemt (Egypt) had become part of the Roman Empire, bringing an end to the Ptolemaic 
Greek dynasty, its citizens had enjoyed great freedom. Queen Cleopatra had caused great hardship to 
the Egyptian people. Roman rule meant that the Essenes in Heliopolis were now able to provide the 
Holy  Family  a  rich  and  comfortable  life.  Ezekiel  knew  that  Joshua’s life in  Palestine  would  not  be 
easy. But Joshua knew that he must go his Way. 
Maria, the White Dove of the Heavens, turned over the supervision of the Home for the ill and 
aged to Aton-ai, a young Egyptian Essene woman, who had assisted Maria in her duties. And so the 
Holy  Family  left  Heliopolis.  Ezekiel  went  with  them  north  for  about  sixty  miles.  And there  he 
embraced  them  bidding  them  farewell  as  they  traveled  on  with  Essene  and  Israelite merchants 
towards En-Nassar (Nazareth) in Palestine. 
 
 
  

31 
 
CHAPTER FIVE The Holy Family Returns to Palestine 
[THE HOLY FAMILY SETTLES IN NAZARETH. 
A JOURNEY TO YERUSHALAYIM FOR THE PASSOVER FEAST. 
JOSHUA TEACHES AND HEALS IN THE ESSENE TEMPLE. 
PLANS ARE MADE FOR REGULAR VISITS TO THE HOLY CITY.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yioussouf, Maria, and the God-boy Joshua Immanuel, were eager to return to Palestine. For though 
their lives  in  Heliopolis  had  been  happy,  Yioussouf  especially  was  from  time to  time homesick.  He 
wanted  to  be  near  his  four  sons  and  their  families  and  his  daughter  Esther.  And he wanted  to  visit 
with Tamar and her husband, who lived in K’far Nahum close to En-Nassar (Nazareth). 
Ephraim, the Essene Rayis Rabbi in Yerushalayim, had sent a message to the Holy Family, as 
they traveled from Egypt, to offer them a comfortable life in Yerushalayim, for he thought Nazareth 
too  crude  a  place  for  the God-man.  Gently  Yioussouf  had  thanked  him,  refusing  his offer,  turning 
towards Nazareth. 
In  Nazareth  the  Essenes  comprised  one  fifth  of  the  population.  The  rest  were  Israelites and  
Greeks. The Essene community in En-Nassar was not wealthy, but to Yioussouf it was home, where 
he  had  lived  for  many  years.  And  there  lived  his  three  married  sons,  with  their wives and  children. 
Maria as well suffered because Yioussouf was longing for his sons and two daughters, whom she too 
loved very much. 
Yiossaphat greeted his father warmly and welcomed Yioussouf, Maria, and Joshua to the small 
house where he lived with his wife, his mother-in-law, and his three sons. His eldest son, Joram, who 
had been three when his grandfather had left for Egypt, now was fourteen. 
During the  eleven  years  he  had  lived  in  Egypt  Yioussouf,  working  as  a  carpenter  and  a  cart 
maker, had been able to save some money because the Rayis Rabbi in Heliopolis cared for Maria, the 
White Dove of the Heavens, and provided for all their needs. And so after living twenty days with his 
son,  he  was  able  to  buy  a  rather  large  house,  not  far  from  Yiossaphat.  The house  had  a  very  large 
entrance hall, six big rooms, a kitchen, and an ample cellar. Yioussouf set up his new workshop in an 
out-building  of  two  large  rooms  built  into  the  entrance  gate  of the wide  yard.  To  their  new  home, 
Yioussouf and Maria welcomed Esther, Yiacoub, and Sarah, Yioussouf’s mother-in-law, who moved 
from K’far Nahum. Esther and Yiacoub loved Maria dearly and  were delighted to live with her and 
their  father.  Yiacoub,  a  young  man  now  of  twenty two,  was  a  tailor  and  dress-maker.  He  was 
fascinated by the God-boy Joshua, and opened his heart entirely to him. 
Two  months  after  their  return  from  Egypt  the  Holy  Family  went,  as  was  the  custom  for 
Essenes, to the Essene temple in Yerushalayim for the Feast of the Passover. In the yard of the temple 
they were welcomed by Rachel with tears of joy in her eyes. As a young woman Rachel had been in 
the service of the Rayis Rabbi Shamaon, Maria’s uncle, and had cared for Maria from the age of three 
until  she  was  placed  in  Yioussouf’s care. When  Shamaon  had  passed  over, Rachel  had  served 

32 
 
Ephraim. Now she was well advanced in age. Following the instructions of the Rayis Rabbi, she took 
the Holy Family to the rooms Maria had used as a White Dove of the Heavens. 
Joshua, dressed as a novice with a round snow-white linen cap and a loose white robe, ankle-
length, went directly to the temple. There Ephraim, the Rayis Rabbi, the Rabbis, Elders, Scribes, and 
others  sat  cross-legged  on  cushions,  praying  silently.  Joshua  approached  the  Rayis Rabbi  and,  with 
his right hand raised towards the ceiling, said in Greek and Aramaic: 
 
 
 
Shalom—Kodoish, Kodoish, Kodoish Aton-ai Alaha, Shaddai El, 
Peace—Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God, the Almighty God. 
 
 
The  Essenes  in  the  temple  had  been  eagerly  awaiting  this  time,  having  heard  of  the  many 
marvels  Joshua  had  worked  in  Heliopolis.  Some  of  the  Elders  and  Ephraim  had  been  in  the temple 
when  Shamaon  had  presented  Joshua, a baby  eight days  old,  calling  him ‘Beni Alaha, the Mshiha.’ 
And  now  again,  as  a  boy  of  twelve,  he  was  among  them,  his  aura  enchanting.  All gazed  at  him  in 
wonder; all full of questions; each reluctant to speak first. 
Joshua,  reading  their  minds,  approached  them  one  by one,  looking  into  their  eyes  and 
answering  the  thoughts  they  hadn’t  yet  expressed.  He  explained  passages  from  the Sepher Yetzirah, 
very difficult for human intelligence to grasp, with wonderful clarity.  He revealed to them the work 
of  the  Holy  Archangels of  the  Elements  in  the creation.  They  gazed  awe-struck  at the  God-boy and 
were silent until the Rayis Rabbi Ephraim stood, saying, ‘My brethren, some of us saw Shamaon hold 
Joshua in his arms, calling him the Mshiha. Could you expect a wiser Mshiha?’ 
Among the Elders was Eliakim, who was lame, with one leg three inches shorter than the other 
and atrophied. He walked only with heavy wooden crutches. Joshua approached Eliakim and took his 
hand.  With  his  right  hand  Joshua  caressed  the  crippled  leg  for  less  than  a  minute and said, ‘Aba 
Eliakim, rise; for both your legs are strong and healthy.’ It amazed the others that Joshua knew this 
Elder’s name.  Eliakim  looked  into  the  eyes  of  Joshua  as  if  hypnotized  and rose,  walking,  his  legs 
whole and firm. 
Another Elder, Is-shakh, had for two years between his legs a very painful, bleeding wound. No 
one  knew  of  it  except  his  wife,  Lea.  Joshua  asked  Is-shakh,  to  remain  behind  in  the temple.  When 
everyone  except  Ephraim  and  Is-shakh  had  gone,  Joshua  asked  the  Elder  to  expose  his  right  thigh. 
There were two bad-smelling wounds close to each other. The large one he had suffered for two years 
and the smaller, two months. The great pain had weakened the Elder and made him increasingly bad-
tempered. Joshua  placed  his  right  hand  on  the  wounds and immediately  they  disappeared;  the  Elder 
was healed. 
So  when  they  had  performed  all  things  according  to  the  Law  of  the  Lord,  they  returned  to 
Galilee,  to  their  own  city,  Nazareth,  And  the  child  grew  and  became  strong  in  Spirit,  filled  with 
wisdom;  and  the  grace  of  God  was  upon  him.  His  parents  went  to  Yerushalayim  every  year  at  the 
Feast of the Passover, And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Yerushalayim according to 
the custom of the Feast. When they had finished the days, as they returned, the boy Joshua lingered 

33 
 
behind  in  Yerushalayim.  And  Yioussouf  and  his  mother  did  not  know  it,  but  supposing him  to  have 
been  in  the  company,  they  went  a  day’s journey,  and  sought  him  among  their  relatives and 
acquaintances. So when they did not find him, they returned to Yerushalayim, seeking him, Now so it 
was  that  after  three  days  they  found  him  in  the  temple,  sitting  in  the  midst  of  the teachers,  both 
listening  to  them  and  asking  them  questions.  And  all  who  heard  him  were  astonished at  his 
understanding  and  answers.  So  when  they  saw  him, they  were  amazed;  and  his  mother said to  him, 
‘son, why have you done this to us? Look, your father and I have sought you anxiously’. And he said 
to them, ‘Why is it that you sought me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father’s Home?’ But 
they did not understand the words which he spoke to them. (Luke 2:39-50) 
This  visit  to  Yerushalayim  was  a  great  joy  to  Maria;  to  return  to  those  rooms  by  the  temple 
where she had lived from age three to thirteen with her uncle, the Rayis Rabbi, Shamaon, as a young 
White Dove of the Heavens. 
Ephraim told Maria how greatly it would please him if Maria, Yioussouf, and Joshua returned 
to Yerushalayim every month for a few days. Maria promised the Rayis Rabbi that she would bring 
Joshua once every three months for three or four days. The journey would not be difficult as Essenes 
from  Yerushalayim  visited  Nazareth  very  often  on  business  and  would  be pleased  and  honored  to 
take Joshua and Maria in their carts. 
So  Joshua  Immanuel from  the  age  of  twelve,  when  he  began  working  with  Yioussouf  in  the 
carpenter’s shop,  traveled  every  three  months  to  preach  for  several  days  in  the  temple  and  in  the 
synagogue  of  the  Essenes  in  Yerushalayim.  When  Joshua  turned  sixteen,  he  went  more  often, 
sometimes  alone,  preaching  and  healing,  always  wearing  the  white  robe  of  an  Essene Rabbi-Asa 
(Rabbi healer). Ephraim adored him, sure that Joshua was the Beni-Alaha, the Son of God.  
 
  

34 
 
CHAPTER SIX  A Peculiar Family 
[THE FAMILY OF THE ESSENE NOVICE YIASSOUNAI. 
A TROUBLESOME GREEK NAMED ARISTARKHOS. AN ACCIDENT AND A HEALING.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hannah,  the  wife  of  the  Essene  Rayis  Rabbi  Yioakhim,  gave  birth  to  Elizabeth,  Myriam 
Shalome  and,  by  immaculate  conception,  to  Maria.  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of  the Essene  Rayis Rabbi 
Zakharias,  having  been  barren,  gave  birth  by  immaculate  conception  to  Yiohannan  the Baptist  (cf. 
Luke  1:5-25).  Myriam  Shalome,  the  second  daughter  of  Hannah  and  Yioakhim, married  the  Essene 
fisherman  Shabbatai  (Zebedee),  and  gave  birth  to  Yiacoub  and,  by  immaculate  conception,  to 
Yiohannan (St. John the Evangelist). 
Maria, who gave virgin birth to Joshua Immanuel, the Beni Alaha (the Son of God), was born 
of  Hannah.  Hannah  was  well  advanced  in  years,  and  two  years  earlier  her  husband Yioakhim  had 
passed over in peace. 
The  Rayis  Rabbi  Shamaon  and  Hannah  had  a  brother,  Manasseh,  twenty  years  younger than 
Shamaon  and  fifteen  years  younger  than  Hannah.  Manasseh  was  only  six  months  old when  their 
father had passed over, and when their mother passed over, he was six  years old. Eliezer, a wealthy 
Essene  innkeeper,  whose  wife  Sarah  was  barren,  appealed  to  Shamaon  to  let them  adopt  Manasseh, 
whom they both adored. 
The  inn  of  Eliezer  lay  on  the  main  road  two  miles  from  Yerushalayim  and  a  mile  from the 
Essene  community  beyond.  It  had  a  large  yard  surrounded  by  four  walls  eight  feet  high.  A  large 
entrance  hall  opened  on  eight  spacious  bedrooms,  two  expansive  sitting  rooms,  two  dining rooms, 
and a kitchen. Near the main iron gate stood an out-building of two large rooms for the guard. There 
was another wider gate at the end of the front wall for the carts, camels, and horses of the guests, with 
the stables on the back wall. 
Manasseh  attended  the  Essene  school  under  the  supervision  of  his  brother,  the  Rayis Rabbi 
Shamaon, and he saw his brother and sister very often. 
The  inn  prospered.  The  guests  came  from  the  Essene  communities  in  Palestine  and  from the 
Bedouin tribes. The Israelites preferred to stay in the Israelite inns within the walls of Yerushalayim. 
When  Manasseh  was  nineteen  he  fell  in  love  with  Hayiat,  the  very  beautiful  daughter  of 
Akhbar,  a  Bedouin  horse-breeder,  and  his  first  wife,  Mukkhates,  who  had  passed  over.  Because 
Akhbar’s second  wife,  Agar,  hated  and  mistreated  her  stepchild,  loving  only  her  twin  sons, Akhbar 
often  took  his  sixteen-year-old  daughter  with  him,  sometimes  leaving  her  for  days  in Sarah’s care. 
Once,  when  Hayiat  had  been  in  Eliezer’s house  for  nearly  a month,  Akhbar  returned  and  Manasseh 
told him that he was in love with Hayiat and wanted her as his wife. Nothing could be more pleasing 
to Akhbar than to have Manasseh for his son-in-law. 

35 
 
And  so  Manasseh  and  Hayiat  were  married  in  an  Essene  ceremony.  The  Bedouin  God  whom 
Hayiat knew, the One True God, calling Him Allahu Patishah or Alaha Melekh (God the King), was 
the  same  God  the  Essenes  worshipped.  She  adapted  herself  very  easily  to  the  Essene  customs and 
way of life. Sarah and Eliezer loved her as a daughter, and Hayiat loved them as she loved her father. 
And her love for Manasseh was so great that no one ever heard a hard word pass between them; only 
words of love. Manasseh and Hayiat had two daughters, Aethra and Naomi. 
Ten  years  after  Manasseh  and  Hayiat  had married,  Sarah  was  taken  with  a  raging  fever  and 
passed over. And six years later Eliezer too, unable to bear the grief of his loss, passed over. And then 
only two years after that, Hayiat, who for nearly six months had struggled for breath, passed over. 
Manasseh, grief-stricken, did not want his daughters, Aethra, now eighteen, and Naomi, fifteen, 
working at the inn and so determined to close it. He had three cows and some goats, which the girls 
helped look after, and was able to make a living from the milk and its by-products. 
Manasseh  had  a  good  friend,  named  Alexandros,  an  Essene  merchant.  He  had  a  son named 
Ivikos, whose mother Rachel, the first wife of Alexandros, had died when the boy was six. Ivikos was 
raised  by  his  grandmother.  His  father,  on  a  trip  to  Greece,  had  fallen  in  love  with a  Greek  woman 
from  Thessaloniki,  named  Ismini,  and  she  became  Alexandros’ second  wife. They  lived  in  Greece. 
And when Ivikos was eight, Alexandros and Ismini had a son, Aristarkhos, raised as a heathen Greek 
like  his  mother.  When  Alexandros  came  for  several  days  to  Palestine, he  proposed  to  Manasseh  to 
give  his  daughter  Aethra  in  marriage  to  Ivikos,  who  was  by  then  a very  handsome  young  man  of 
twenty-three. 
When  they  were  married,  Ivikos,  a  master  blacksmith,  set  up  his workshop  with  his  bellows, 
tools, and materials, in the outbuilding at the gate of the house. Aethra, who was very good-hearted, 
brought Ivikos’ grandmother to live in one of the many rooms in the inn, so she might care for the old 
woman, whose health was failing.  
A  year after the marriage Alexandros returned to Palestine to visit his mother, who had fallen 
seriously  ill.  A  week  after the  death  of  Ivikos’ grandmother,  Aethra  gave  birth  to  a  baby boy, 
Yiassounai, and two days later Alexandros returned to Greece. 
Manasseh loved Ivikos deeply and Ivikos loved Manasseh, Aethra, and Naomi with his whole 
heart. Peace, love, and understanding were God’s gifts to Manasseh to console his heart, so wounded 
by the deaths of Eliezer, Sarah, and his dear wife, Hayiat.  
When  Yiassounai  was  six,  Manasseh  took  him  every  day  to  the  Essene  school,  which  was 
about  a  mile  from  the  inn,  and  every  evening  he  brought  him  home.  The  school  was  under  the 
supervision  of  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim,  a  nephew  of  Eliezer.  When  Yiassounai  was  ten, Ephraim 
asked Ivikos to dedicate the boy to God as a novice for the Essene Rabbihood. Ivikos consented after 
asking his son if it would please him.  
As a novice for the Rabbihood Yiassounai wore a loose white robe, ankle-length, and always a 
white bowl-shaped  cap.  Five  days  a  week  he  lived  on  the  temple  premises,  attending lessons  in  the 
Essene  school  and  services  of  worship  in  the  temple.  It  was  his  duty  to  clean  the temple  and  the 
synagogue and to tend the garden of the temple. Though only a boy of ten, Yiassounai had given his 
whole heart to God. 
A  year  later,  far  away  in  Thessaloniki,  Ismini,  the  second  wife  of  Yiassounai’s grandfather, 
Alexandros, died. She and her son Aristarkhos had been living a very prodigal life, squandering all of 
Alexandros’ wealth.  Aristarkhos,  calling  himself  a  philosopher,  had  never  worked  and  led an 
extravagant life. 
After the death of his wife, Alexandros, poverty-stricken, decided to return to Palestine with his 
unmannerly  lazy  son.  He  thought  it  the  duty  of  Ivikos  to  provide  for  them.  When  they arrived, 
Yiassounai,  was  in  the  novice  quarters  of  the  temple.  Ivikos  welcomed  his  father  most graciously 
giving him and his half brother the best rooms in the house. Aristarkhos returned this hospitality by 

36 
 
treating them all like servants. He would often shout at Naomi as he ordered her about. He showed no 
respect for the Israelites or the Essenes, calling them ‘stupid barbarians’. To Manasseh it was a cause 
of much grief to see his old friend, Alexandros, so changed; an Essene no more, but a Greek.  
When the  boy  Yiassounai  came  home,  he  went  straight  to  his  grandfather’s room  to  welcome 
Alexandros was  in  bed,  feeling  unwell.  Yiassounai  kissed  his  hand,  expecting  his  blessing;  but 
Alexandros only stared at him wordlessly and the boy left bewildered and disappointed. 
Aristarkhos came upon him in the sitting room and burst into laughter saying, ‘Jason, take off 
the ridiculous dress.’ He pulled the white cap from his nephew’s head and threw it down. 
‘Uncle,’ said Yiassounai, ‘my name is not Jason. I’m not a Greek. I’m an Essene, and my name 
is Yiassounai. Uncle, the dress of an Essene novice is not ridiculous, but holy, and a great honor to 
those who wear it. The cap you have thrown on the floor is the symbol of purity of thought.’ As he 
was  speaking,  Naomi  came  into  the  room.  She  picked  up  the  cap  and  kissed  it, giving  it  to 
Yiassounai, who kissed it too and put it back on. 
Aristarkhos was furious. ‘Jason,’ he shouted, ‘of course, I see that you are not Greek, you dress 
yourself  as  an  insane  Essene  barbarian!  Go  at  once  and  take  off  those  clothes!’ Yiassounai  replied 
very calmly. ‘Uncle, my name is Yiassounai, and I am proud to be an Essene novice. I am an Essene. 
I am not a Greek idolater.’ 
In  a  fury  Aristarkhos  slapped  the boy  with  all  his  strength.  Yiassounai  took  his  uncle’s hand 
and kissed it saying, ‘I have heard my Most Beloved. One say, “To him who will slap you, show him 
your other cheek.” Uncle, I am deeply sorry to be the cause of your anger.’ And again he kissed the 
hand of Aristarkhos. 
Naomi had run to tell Ivikos what was happening, and he came quickly, embracing Yiassounai 
and kissing him, saying, ‘Yiassounai, your uncle loves you. You must forget what this evil hour has 
brought upon this house.’  
With tears in his eyes Yiassounai said, ‘Father, I love my uncle. I have shown him that. I have 
kissed his hand. You have never slapped me, Father,’ he said, his voice trembling, and he left the room.  
‘Your  son  is  insane,’ said  Aristarkhos, ‘he  is  really  quite  mad.’ Ivikos  smiling,  but  not 
concealing  his  bitterness  said, ‘My  brother,  you  cannot  understand how  an  Essene  novice  feels. 
Yiassounai is not insane. He is an Essene angel. I ask you to be kinder to him.’ 
Ivikos,  who  loved  his  father  and  his  rude  brother,  asked everyone  in  his  household  to  avoid 
arguments  with  them.  Manasseh  replied  that  Ivikos’ father  had  grieved  him.  He  could  hardly 
recognize  his  dear  Essene  friend  of  old;  instead  he  found  in  Ivikos’ father  and  his  half  brother two 
heathen Greeks who had no manners and who believed that everybody had to serve them. Aristarkhos 
was  nothing  but  a  lazy,  arrogant  drone.  Still,  for  Ivikos’ sake,  he  would  be  most tolerant  towards 
them. The goodhearted Aethra was most loving to them, serving them without complaint, in spite of 
their ugly manners. Naomi, on behalf of Ivikos, nursed  Alexandros with great kindness, excusing his 
bad manners by his illness. 
Yiassounai  was  fifteen  when  his  grandfather  died.  Aristarkhos  insisted  on  burying  him 
according to the Greek custom in the yard of Ivikos’ house. In the presence of Ivikos, Aristarkhos and 
some  Greeks  who  lived  in  Palestine,  the  heathen  Greek  priest  buried  Alexandros.  Manasseh, 
Yiassounai,  Aethra  and  Naomi  did  not  attend  the  ceremony.  Greatly  grieved  when  he  heard  of the 
heathen  burial,  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim  expressed  to  Ivikos  how  displeased  he  was.  After the 
funeral, Aristarkhos’ manners grew worse; he was loud, insulting, demanding, and dictative. Ivikos, 
unwilling to confront Aristarkhos, asked the others to tolerate him. 
Two months later, on the first Sabbath of the month, Manasseh came to the novice quarters of 
the temple to ask Yiassounai to come home with him after vespers, a day earlier than usual, to help 
his father repair an iron gate which Ivikos had to take early the next morning to Yerushalayim. It was 
Yiassounai’s task to work the bellows that drove air into the fire. 
  

37 
 
Ivikos  and  Yiassounai  worked  into  the  small  hours  of  the  night,  and  at  two  in  the  morning 
Ivikos sent Yiassounai to bed. At four the boy woke to the sound of the hammer beating the red-hot 
iron  and  pulling  on  an  overshirt,  he  ran  to  the  workshop. Yiassounai  relieved  Manasseh  on the 
bellows so he could milk the two cows and four goats. 
At  eight  in  the  morning  Manasseh  and  Ivikos  loaded  the  iron  gate  on  the  cart.  Yiassounai 
washed, and putting on his novice robe and cap, offered his prayers to Alaha. 
Aristarkhos woke, as usual, in a bad mood. Shouting at Naomi he insisted it was goat’s milk he 
wanted  for  his  breakfast—not  cow’s!  Naomi  explained  patiently  that  the  milk  was  goat’s, but 
Aristarkhos responded by loudly complaining the two hard-boiled eggs she had served him were too 
soft. Yiassounai, overhearing all this, had all he could do to keep calm. The lazy man did nothing to 
earn his daily bread, and still he demanded that everyone serve him. Nothing was ever good enough 
for Aristarkhos! And then his uncle shouted for Yiassounai to come at once to his room. Reluctantly, 
the boy obeyed. 
‘Jason,’ Aristarkhos  said  to  Yiassounai, ‘you  know  very well  that  I  do  not  want to  see  you  in 
that long,  white  robe  with  that  ridiculous  cap  on  your  head.  Remove  that  dress  and  dress  properly. 
You  must be  a  Greek  and  not  a  barbarian  Essene.  You  must  be  a  philosopher—like  me!  Do  you 
understand?’ 
Yiassounai attuned to his Soul
*
, and paused. Then he looked at his uncle, that lazy Greek, with 
pity  and  said, ‘Uncle,  my  name  is  Yiassounai,  not  Jason.  I  am  very  proud  of  this  robe  and cap  of a 
novice.  I  am  destined  for  the  Rabbihood,  worshipping Alaha the  One  True God.  You must 
understand, Uncle. I am an Essene. I am not a Greek-idolater.’ 
This enraged Aristarkhos. He slapped Yiassounai’s face with all his strength.  
Calmly Yiassounai said, ‘Uncle, you are trying the patience of us all, and you are abusing the 
love and kindness of my father. If you believe you are a philosopher, you deceive yourself. You are 
just a lazy man. A good for nothing. A Greek, without manners.’ 
Aristarkhos  grabbed  Yiassounai,  beating  his  face  with  his  fists  until  the  boy’s nose  and  lips 
bled. Yiassounai’s right eye was badly bruised, and the white robe was stained with his blood. Very 
calmly  Yiassounai  said, ‘Uncle,  you  are very  lucky  that  I  am  an  Essene  and  not a  Greek, like  you.’ 
Weeping, Aethra and Naomi took Yiassounai away to his room where they tried to stop the bleeding. 
Aristarkhos, still in a violent rage, smashed whatever he could lay hands on. 
When  Ivikos  and  Manasseh  returned,  Naomi  told  them  what  had  happened.  Manasseh was 
furious and Ivikos deeply bitter. When Ivikos saw his son, his face swollen and bruised, he embraced 
him tenderly and said, ‘My love, must I now send him away?’ 
‘No,  father,’ said  Yiassounai, ‘though  your  brother  is  good for  nothing  and  cannot  earn  his 
daily bread,  you  must  provide  for  him. Alaha has  sent  him  to  us.  You  must  remember  who  we  are. 
We are not Greeks. We are Essenes. Now let us go to him. And you must calm down, father, please.’ 
In the room of Aristarkhos, Yiassounai took his uncle’s hand and said, ‘Uncle, I love you. If I 
said something to send you into such a rage, forgive me, but please from now on, stop imposing your 
opinion on me. I have not tried to make you an Essene, and you have no right to change who I am. I 
am an Essene.’ 
To his father Yiassounai said, ‘Father, if my presence here in these garments is disturbing my 
uncle, I can stay in the novice quarters all week, and you and my mother, my grandfather, and Naomi 
can visit me there.’ 
Weeping,  Ivikos  embraced  his  son  saying, ‘My  son,  don’t  say  this.  Here  is  your  home—here 
you were born. You have brought life and joy to this house. Your uncle is our guest. He loves  you. 
And you love your uncle.’ 
 
*)  Yiassounai’s Soul-Self  had  been  humanized  and  incarnated  as  the  Egyptian  Prince  Khor-Aton,  a  hierophant who 
worshipped  the  One  Spirit  God ATON.  His  Soul-Self  had  also  been  humanized  and  incarnated  as  the Israelite  prophets 
Daniel and Samuel, and—in the fifth century B.C.—as the Greco-Egyptian philosopher and hierophant Baal-Aton (Plato) 
who also worshipped the One Spirit God ATON. 

38 
 
Yiassounai turned to Aristarkhos. ‘Uncle,’ he said, ‘this blood on my robe is the same as your 
blood.  I  respect  the  blood  we  share.  If  you  love  my  father,  your  brother,  and  my  grandfather,  your 
father, then you must respect this common blood. Uncle, I love you.’ 
Fifteen days later, Joshua Immanuel was to give a teaching on healing to thirty of  his seventy 
disciples  who  lived  in  Yerushalayim.  It  was  Yiassounai’s duty  to  arrange  everything  in the 
synagogue. He had been given permission to attend the teaching, to be trained as an Asa (healer). His 
eye still bore the bruises of his uncle’s violent attack. 
Aristarkhos  had  decided  to  ride  off  on  horseback  with  Ermis,  a  Greek  friend,  early  in  the 
morning  to  visit  another  Greek  friend  who  lived  several  miles  away  in the  country.  Ivikos  and 
Manasseh were occupied in Ivikos’ workshop when the owner of the horses left them for Aristarkhos 
and  Ermis  at  the  main  gate  and  rode  away.  As  the  travelers  were  mounting,  one  of the  horses  for 
some unknown reason became frenzied and kicked out at Aristarkhos, hitting him in the stomach and 
throwing  him  to  the  ground  on  a  pile  of stones  by  the  gate. Manasseh,  Ivikos,  and  Ermis  ran  to  the 
unconscious  man to  help  him.  Gently  they  carried his  room.  Ivikos  and  Ermis  set off  in  great  haste 
with the cart to fetch a Greek practitioner Yerushalayim. Manasseh and Aethra stayed at the bedside. 
At  that  very  moment,  a  mile  away  in  the  synagogue,  where  the God-man  was  teaching  his 
disciples, with young Yiassounai at his feet, Joshua stopped abruptly, and beckoned the boy to follow 
him. Joshua, in his Divine expanded Self-awareness, had seen the accident and had read the thoughts 
of the witnesses. To Yiassounai he said, ‘Yiassounai, a few minutes ago your uncle was kicked in the 
abdomen by a horse and thrown to the ground unconscious. He has four broken ribs, his thigh bone is 
broken,  as  is  a  bone  in  his  right  arm.  And  his  bowels  are  bleeding. Put  your  sandals  on  and  run  to 
him. He moans in great pain. If  you take the lane, it is less than a mile. You must hurry. You know 
what to do. Fill your body with emerald-green Vitality and visualize sending it into your uncle’s body 
through  your  right  hand.  Place  your  left  hand  on  your uncle’s forehead,  and  with  your  right  hand 
caress  gently  your  uncle’s arm,  filling  it  with  the emerald-green  Vitality  and  visualizing  it  in  good 
health. Then place your left hand over your uncle’s heart, and with the right caress gently the ribs on 
his  right  side,  visualizing  them  healthy and  strong.  Now  fill  your  uncle’s abdomen  with  emerald-
green  Vitality.  With  your  grandfather’s help  straighten  the  right  leg—silencing  the  pain  with  your 
love  and  the  power  of  your  will. Caress  the  thighbone,  visualizing  it  whole  again,  and  tell  him  to 
stand.  He  will  be  healthy  and strong. I  will  be  with  you.  Now  go.  You  must  get  there  before  your 
father,  Ermis,  and  Pericles—that  is  the  name  of  the  practitioner—return  from  Yerushalayim.  And 
Yiassounai, give my love to your grandfather, your mother, and Naomi. Go.’ 
Yiassounai ran along the lane, praying to Alaha. He found Manasseh and his mother weeping, 
not knowing what to do. Yiassounai did as his Most Beloved One, Joshua Immanuel, had taught him. 
And  so  his  uncle  Aristarkhos  was  completely  cured.  His  grandfather,  his  mother, and  his  aunt 
embraced and kissed Yiassounai as he told them Joshua had sent them his love. 
Aristarkhos was stupefied. In a daze he stared at his nephew, wondering yet without offering a 
single  word  of  thanks.  Yiassounai  had  left  the  house  before  the  party  returned  from Yerushalayim. 
Only Ivikos understood what had happened. Pericles, seeing his patient walking about in no apparent 
pain, thought it was all some foolish mistake. 
When  he  returned  to  the  temple,  Yiassounai  found  Joshua  alone,  and  he  said  to  his  Most 
Beloved  One, ‘My  Lord Shaddai  El and  my  Love,  I  felt  you  in  my  body;  in  every  part  of  it  as  a 
pleasing, warm shiver; and in my heart, too. Thank you, my Most Beloved God-man.’ 
Only a year later, Aristarkhos and some of his Greek friends were, just for the fun of it, part of 
that mob of Israelites shouting to Pilate, ‘Crucify him! Crucify him!’ And this same Aristarkhos was 
often to be seen in the arenas where Greeks and Romans at that time amused themselves, satisfying 
their brutal instincts with the sight of human beings being tortured to death. 
 
  

39 
 
CHAPTER SEVEN In Cana 
[ALTAI WOOS ESTHER. A WEDDING AND A MIRACLE IN CANA. 
JOSHUA HEALS IN CANA AND IN K’FAR NAHUM.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall 
see God. (Matthew 5:8) 
 
 
The Essenes of Nazareth, who represented about one fifth of the local population, were mostly poor 
though very hard working. The Israelites and the Greeks of Nazareth were generally wealthy. 
The  house  of  Yioussouf,  in  the  Essene  quarter,  was  near  the  small  Essene  temple  and 
synagogue.  Between  the  ages  of  twelve  and  seventeen,  Joshua  worked  in  Yioussouf’s shop  as  a 
carpenter. He attended the Essene high school under the supervision of the Rabbi Davout. In his free 
time  he  helped  the  Rabbi  with  his  duties.  When  Joshua  Immanuel  was  seventeen,  he  lived with 
Yioussouf and Maria, Esther and Yiacoub in Nazareth. 
In  her  father’s house  Esther  had  three  looms  for  weaving.  Maria  worked  one  of  them  in 
addition to her duties as a White Dove of the Heavens. The third was used by a distant relative who 
lived  next  door.  Yioussouf  was  a  hard  working  carpenter,  making  doors,  windows,  and furniture  in 
his workshop in the yard, helped by his stepson, Joshua Immanuel, the Son of God. Esther wove for 
her  brother  Yiacoub,  a  dressmaker, and  sold  cloth  to  Altai,  a  friend  and  client from  Cana,  a  small 
town about six miles north of Nazareth. Altai was twenty-seven, three years older than Yiacoub, and 
they were very good friends. 
Altai was a very handsome  young man, but he could not walk without the aid of crutches. He 
fell  in  love  with  Esther,  and  she  returned  his  love,  but  as  she  was  some  years  older  than  he, she 
refused  his  several  proposals  for  marriage.  Altai’s father,  Methuel,  was  a  second cousin  of Esther’s 
mother. He lived in Nazareth until he married Lea, the elder daughter of a baker in Cana. They lived 
in a very large house which was used as a bakery.  Lea’s mother had died two days after giving birth 
to  Lea’s younger  sister,  Sarah.  When  Lea  was  eighteen  and  Sarah  fifteen, Lea  was  married  to 
Methuel. Two years later her father died and Methuel, Lea, and Sarah took over the bakery. 
When Altai was eight, Methuel died, and Lea and Sarah continued to run the bakery and raise 
Altai. He was twenty when an accident unloading heavy sacks of flour from a cart occurred. Both of 
Sarah’s legs  and  many  ribs  were  broken,  leaving  her  confined  to  a  chair,  unable  to  walk or  work. 
After his mother’s death four  years later,  Altai made the difficult decision to send Sarah to a  Home 
for the poor and disabled in K’far Nahum. Altai wished to marry, and the burden of his disabled aunt 

40 
 
seemed too much for him. Sarah loved Altai very much, and though it pained her deeply to leave him, 
she put his happiness before her own and accepted his decision without complaint.  
Two  years  later  as  Altai  was  driving  his  heavily  loaded  two-wheeled  cart  from  Cana  to 
Magdala a wheel came off, overturning the cart and crushing Altai’s legs so that he could no longer 
walk without crutches. It was then that Esther, seeing  Altai lonely, miserable and unable to care for 
himself, was moved to marry him and live with him in Cana. 
To  their  wedding  came,  Yioussouf,  Maria,  Yiacoub,  Joshua,  the  other  sons  of  Yioussouf with 
their  families,  Tamar,  Esther’s sister  with  her  husband  and  children,  Manasseh,  Aethra, Ivikos, 
Naomi, and Yiassounai, then a six months old baby, in his mother’s arms. Also, Shabbatai, Myriam 
Shalome with her sons, Yiacoub, and Yiohannan, a boy of ten, and a great many friends of the bride 
and groom. 
Yioussouf provided the wine for the feast which, according to Essene custom, lasted for three 
nights.  On  the  second  day  it  became  painfully  clear  to  Yioussouf  that  for  so  many  guests, many 
unexpected,  there  was  not  enough  wine.  Moreover  there  was  no  more  wine  to  be had  any where  in 
Cana. Maria seeing Yioussouf’s distress tried to console him. 
She went to Joshua and said, ‘Joshua, my love, there is no more wine for the wedding guests, 
and Yioussouf is terribly unhappy.’ 
‘Mother,’ said Joshua to Maria, ‘what does your concern have to do with me? My hour has not 
come’ (cf. John 2:4). 
Smiling Maria said, ‘My love and my Lord. Your hour has not come? It is not my son to whom 
I appeal, my Lord. It is to you, to the Beni Alaha. I appeal to the El Shaddai (the Logos). The hour of 
the Son of God is at all times.’ Joshua embraced and kissed her, and then went out.  
In the entrance to the house stood six empty, thirty  gallon stone jars for the water with which 
guests  washed  their  feet  and  hands  before  sitting  to  eat. Joshua  asked  the  servants  to  fill them  with 
fresh, clean water. 
And he said to them, ‘Draw some out now, and take it to the master of the feast.’ And they took 
it. When the master of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and did not know where it 
came  from  (but the  servants  who  had  drawn  the  water  knew),  the  master  of  the  feast  called the 
bridegroom.  And  he  said  to  him, ‘Every man  at  the  beginning  serves  the good  wine,  and  when the 
guests have well drunk, then that which is inferior; but you have kept the good wine until now.’ This 
beginning  of  signs  Joshua  did  in  Cana  of  Galilee,  publicly,  and  manifested  his  glory; and  his 
disciples believed on him. (John 2:8-11) 
After the marriage ceremony, Esther thought of all the healings Joshua had worked on so many 
afflicted  people  and  wished  to  herself  he  might  heal  her  husband’s crippled  legs.  Joshua saw  and 
understood  these  thoughts  in  Esther’s mind,  and  in  the  mind  of  Altai  he  saw  the  guilt the  young 
husband felt for having exiled his aunt, Sarah, to K’far Nahum. 
To Altai Joshua said, ‘Altai dear, your aunt Sarah is very unhappy being separated from you in 
a  Home  for  the  poor  and  disabled.  You  are  not  a  poor  man,  Altai.  Sarah  can  be  healthy  again  and 
strong enough to work one of your wife’s looms, and Esther would welcome her here in your house.’ 
Shaking  his  head  in  confusion,  Altai  said  to  Joshua, ‘Dear  one,  who  told  you  about  Sarah?  Even 
Esther doesn’t know of her, and you are not even from Cana.’ 
‘My  dear  Altai,’ said  Joshua. ‘Your  mind  cries  out  with  the  guilt  you  feel  for  what  you  have 
done  to  your  aunt.  I  can  hear  it  in  your  mind.  Now  take  the  cart  and  go  with  your  brother-in-law 
Yiacoub to K’far Nahum and return to us with your aunt.’ 
Joshua turned to Yiacoub who had come into the room. ‘My dear Yiacoub,’ he said, ‘will you 
go with Altai to K’far Nahum?’ 

41 
 
Altai was trying to find his crutches when Joshua stretched his right hand towards him and said 
in a voice smiling with love, ‘Dear one, you need the crutches no more. You can walk.’ 
And  Altai  felt  a  sweet warmth  course  through  his  whole  body  such  as  he  had  never  known 
before,  and  his  heart  was  filled  with  love  for  Sarah.  Standing,  he  walked.  He  knelt  before Joshua 
saying, ‘Thank  you.  Thank  you.’ Esther  knelt  beside  him  weeping  and  kissed  Joshua’s hands. 
Yiacoub  looked  with  adoration at  Joshua  his  eyes  speaking  more  than  words  could  say, and  Joshua 
gave his love and his blessing to them all. 
Sarah, in K’far Nahum, had felt the same sweet warmth in her broken body and a great desire 
to move her twisted limbs, hearing in her mind a voice telling her to do so. Obeying she had stretched 
out her arms and legs and taking a deep breath, she became at once healthy and strong and filled with 
joy.  When  Altai  and  Yiacoub  arrived  from  Cana  on  a  four-wheeled  cart, Sarah was  walking  about 
with no sign of impairment to the wonder of all. Altai, Yiacoub and Sarah returned to Cana several 
hours after Yioussouf and his sons had left for Nazareth. 
 
 
 
 
  

42 
 
CHAPTER EIGHT  In En-Nassar 
[JOSHUA EXORCISES DEMONS INTO SWINE IN GADARA. 
HIS STEPBROTHERS ARGUE. THE GOD-MAN ESCAPES A STONING. 
THE HEALING OF A LEPER. JOSHUA PRAYS IN THEN WILDERNESS. 
HE LEAVES NAZARETH WITH MARIA, YIOUSSOUF AND YIACOUB FOR K’FAR NAHUM.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In him was the Life, and the Life was the  
Light of men. (John 1:4) 
 
 
As  Joshua’s fame  as  a  great  healer  spread  through  Palestine,  hundreds  of  people  with  serious 
and  sometimes ‘incurable’ illnesses  came  to  Nazareth  to find Joshua  in  the  Essene  temple  that they 
might be healed. And so they were. Everyone left Nazareth completely cured; among them Israelites, 
Pharisees  and  Scribes.  It  angered  the  Israelite  Rabbis  of  Nazareth  that  an  Essene should  gain  such 
renown  as  a Rabbi-Asa (Rabbi  Healer).  And  then  an  event  occurred  in  the town  of  Gadara,  on  the 
eastern shore of the Sea of Galilee that gave the Israelite Rabbis and the Sanhedrin in Yerushalayim 
the excuse they had been looking for to attack Joshua Immanuel. 
After the wedding in Cana, Yioussouf and his sons and their families returned to Nazareth. But 
Maria  and  Joshua  went  to K’far  Nahum  to  stay  for  a  while  with  Shabbatai,  Myriam Shalome,  and 
their  son  Yiacoub.  Shabbatai  and  Yiacoub  took  Joshua  with  them  on  their  small fishing  boat  to 
Gadara.  As  they  landed,  they  saw  two  men,  said  to  be  possessed  by demons,  who lived  among  the 
tombs in the cemetery and were a terror to the citizens of that town. 
When  he  had  come  to  the  other  side,  to  the  country  of  the  Gergesenes,  there  met  him  two 
demon-possessed  men,  coming  out  of  the  tombs,  exceedingly  fierce,  so that  no  one  could  pass  that 
way.  And  suddenly they  cried  out,  saying: ‘What  have  we  to  do  with you,  Joshua, you  Son  of  God? 
Have you come here to torment us before the time?
’
 Now a good way off from them there was a herd 
of many swine feeding. So the demons begged him, saying, ‘If you cast us out, permit us to go away 
into  the  herd  of  swine.’ And  he  said  to  them, ‘Go.’ So  when  they  had  come  out,  they  went into  the 
herd of swine. And suddenly the whole herd of swine ran violently down the steep place into the sea, 
and perished in the water. Then those who kept them fled; and they went away into the city and told 
everything,  including  what  had  happened  to  the  demon-possessed  men.  And behold,  the  whole  city 
came  out  to  meet  Joshua.  And  when  they  saw  him  they  begged  him  to depart  from  their  region. 
(Matthew 8:28—34. Also see Luke 8:26—39 for a similar account) 
Although both men were possessed, the demons spoke through only one.  Now both were free 
of  demons.  The  Israelite  Rabbi,  the  representative  of  the  Sanhedrin in  Gadara,  had  heard the  angry 
accusations of the owners of the sixty pigs, and the keepers of the swine herd, and fully reported what 

43 
 
had   happened,   including   the   dialog   between   Joshua   and   the   demons,   to   the Sanhedrin   in 
Yerushalayim,  with  his  own  opinion on  the  matter.  The  Sanhedrin  forwarded  the report  to  the 
Israelite Rabbis in Nazareth, with a request for information on the activities of this ‘Essene leader of 
demons’, who could demand obedience from them. 
When Maria and Joshua returned to Nazareth, there was much work for Joshua in the shop, for 
Yioussouf was limited in what he could do by his old age. Two months after the miracle in Gadara 
the Israelite Rabbis Aaron and Assad came to see Yiossaphat. They were barely able to conceal their 
ill  will  towards  Joshua. ‘Yiossaphat,’ said  Aaron  sternly, ‘the Sanhedrin,  upon  learning  what  your 
brother Joshua did in Gadara, are of the opinion that your brother is a demon, incarnated in a human 
form; a demon of the class of Beelzebub, whom demons obey.’ 
‘In Gadara your brother ordered a legion of demons out of two men, and they entered a herd of 
about  sixty  swine.  The  swine,  in  their  frenzy  to  escape  the  demons,  ran  into  the  sea  and drowned. 
Their  owners  are  furious.  When  the  Sanhedrin  had  the  report  of  these  events  from their  Rabbi  in 
Gadara, they summoned the owners and herders of the swine to Yerushalayim.’ 
‘Yiossaphat,  you Essenes are not Roman citizens but are under the jurisdiction of the King of 
the  Israelites  and  the  Sanhedrin.  You  live  under  the  Law  of Moses,  and  that  law  is  very  strict. The 
Sanhedrin  can  order  the  stoning  to  death  of  your  brother.  Of  course,  they  would  have  to have  the 
approval  of  the  Roman  governor,  but  that  would  not  be  difficult.  Yiossaphat,  you  must accept  the 
truth. Your brother, Joshua, is a demon.’ 
When  the  two  Israelite  Rabbis  had  gone,  Yiossaphat  called  his  three  brothers,  Simon, Judas, 
and Yiacoub to his house. ‘My brothers,’ he said, ‘today Rabbi Aaron and Rabbi Assad came to me 
to tell me that the Sanhedrin and the Israelite Rabbis are accusing Joshua of being a demon incarnated 
in human form. And they threaten to stone him to death. How many times have we heard our father 
and Maria say that Joshua is the Son of God? They have made Joshua believe it. But of two things I 
am  perfectly  sure.  One  is  that  Joshua  is  not  our  brother.  And  the other  is  that  he  will  bring  great 
trouble to this house.’ 
Yiacoub interrupted saying, ‘Yiossaphat, you aren’t living with our father, Maria and Joshua. I 
have lived with them since Joshua was a boy of twelve. Hundreds of suffering people have come to 
our home and to the temple and have been healed. In these four years that I have lived with him, how 
many wonders have I seen him work? Your own son is two years older than Joshua, and all he knows 
is to  play  with  other  boys  his  age.  Yiossaphat,  you  must  understand this.  Joshua is  the  Son  of  God. 
Our father knows it. Maria knows it. And I know it. Try, Yiossaphat, to understand.’ 
‘Yiacoub,’ Yiossaphat  replied,  trying  to  be  patient, ‘that  Joshua  has  a  gift  from  God  to  be in 
Asa (healer)—maybe the most gifted in Palestine—I have no doubt. But that does not mean he is the 
Beni Alaha, the Son of God. Believe me, I love Joshua, but he is just a man like the rest of us.’ 
‘No,’ Yiacoub insisted, ‘Joshua IS the Beni Alaha.’ 
But  Yiossaphat  continued, ‘It  is  my  opinion  that  as  our  sister,  Esther,  is  now  married  and in 
Cana,  and  as  our  father  is  too  old  to  work  anymore,  I  with  my  wife  will  care  for  him.  Maria and 
Joshua  should  go  to K’far  Nahum  to  live  with  her  sister,  Myriam  Shalome,  and  with  our sister, 
Tamar.  Then,  in  time,  the  Israelite  Rabbis  here  in  Nazareth  may  forget  about  him.  In K’far  Nahum 
there are more Essenes than Israelites, and Joshua will be safe.’ 
‘My brother,’ said Yiacoub, ‘this is an excellent idea. I will try to convince Maria and Joshua 
and  I  will  go  with  them  to K’far  Nahum.’ A  week  later,  after  an  attempt  on  Joshua’s life by  the 
Israelite Rabbis, Maria and Joshua were persuaded to leave Nazareth. 
Rabbi  Aaron  had  invited  Joshua  to  preach  in  the  Israelite  synagogue  with  the  intention  of 
executing  him  then  and  there—on  the  authority  of  the  Sanhedrin?  Aaron  and  the  other  Rabbis 

44 
 
gathered  a  band  of  eighteen  strong  Israelites  for the  purpose.  Joshua  went  alone to the Israelite 
synagogue. He asked the attendants to bring him the scroll of Isaiah, which he read: 
Behold  my  servant  whom  I  have  chosen.  My  beloved  in  whom  my  Soul  is  well  pleased;  I  will 
put my Spirit upon him. And he will declare justice to the Gentiles. He will not quarrel nor cry out. 
Nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break. And smoking flax he 
will not quench, till he sends forth justice to victory. And in his name the Gentiles will trust.  
(Matthew 12:18-21).  
This enraged Aaron who cried, ‘Joshua, I ask you in the name of the Living God to tell me the 
truth. Who are you?’ 
So he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as his custom was,  he went into 
the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up to read. And he was handed the scroll of the prophet 
Isaiah. And when he had unrolled the scroll he found the place where it was written: ‘The Spirit of 
the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to preach the Gospel to the poor; he has sent me to 
heal the broken-hearted, to preach deliverance to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to 
set at liberty those who are oppressed, to preach the acceptable year of the LORD.’ (Luke 4:16 – 19) 
Rabbi  Aaron  ordered  that  a  man who  was  possessed  by  demons,  and  was  blind  and  mute, be 
presented to Joshua. The man was brought and Joshua healed him. 
Then one was brought to him who was demon-possessed, blind and mute; and he healed him so 
that  the  blind  and  mute  man  both  spoke  and  saw.  And  all  the  multitudes  were  amazed  and  said, 
‘Could  this  be  the  Son  of  David?’ But  when  the  Pharisees  heard  it  they  said, ‘This  fellow  does  not 
cast out demons except by Beelzebub, the ruler of demons.’ But Joshua knew their thoughts and said 
to  them, ‘Every  kingdom  divided  against  itself  is  brought  to  desolation,  and  every  city  or  house 
divided against itself will not stand. And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How 
then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them 
out?  Therefore  they  shall  be  your  judges.  But  if  I  cast  out  demons  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  surely  the 
Kingdom of God has come upon you.’ (Matthew 12.-22-28). 
Again  Rabbi  Aaron  angrily  demanded, ‘Who  are  you?  All  of  us  are  convinced  you  are  a 
demon.’ 
And  Joshua  said  simply, ‘Ehyeh  Asher  Ehyeh. Ehyeh  Beni Alaha,  Melekh  Shamayyim,’ which 
means, ‘I AM THAT I AM. I AM the Son of God, King of the Heavens.’ 
Rabbi Aaron gave a sign to the eighteen criminals. They caught Joshua by force, dragging him 
out of the synagogue. 
Fifteen yards from the Israelite synagogue stood a cliff, near which the rogues had piled stones, 
meaning to hurl Joshua from the cliff and stone him to death. Surrounding Joshua they dragged him 
and  pushed  him  over.  But  Joshua  dematerialized  his  body  before  he  struck the  ground,  re-
materializing it in the Essene temple in Nazareth, where he told Rabbi Davout what had happened. 
Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him. Joshua answered them, ‘Many good works I 
have  shown  you  from  my  Father.  For  which  of  those works  do  you  stone  me?’ The  Jews  answered 
him, saying, ‘For a good work we do not stone you, but for blasphemy, and because you, being a man 
make yourself God.’ Joshua answered them, ‘Is it not written in your Law, “I said, ‘You are gods.’” 
If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture cannot be broken) do you 
say  of  him  whom  the  Father  sanctified  and  sent  into  the  world, “You  are  blaspheming,” because  I 
said, “I am the Son of God?” If I do not do the works of my Father, do not believe me; but if I do, 
though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and believe that the Father is in 
me, and I am in HIM.’ Therefore  they  sought  again  to  seize  him,  but he  escaped out  of  their  hand. 
(John 10:31-39) 

45 
 
Two days after the attempt by Rabbi Aaron on Joshua’s life another important event took place. 
In an isolated house a mile and a half from Nazareth, three lepers had lived alone as the law required. 
From  time  to  time  good  people  had  brought  food  and  clothes  and  left  them  for (he  lepers  at  a  safe 
distance from the house. Two of the lepers were unable to walk. Only the youngest, Jabin, the brother 
of the Israelite Rabbi Aaron, could move about. 
Eight years before, Jabin had shown the dreaded symptoms of the disease and had been forced 
to live in isolation. Now it was six months since the others had died and Jabin had buried them. And 
so  he  lived  in  solitude  and  in  deep  despair.  A  good  man,  bringing  food  to  Jabin, railed  to  him, 
keeping  a  distance  of  thirty  feet  between  them,  and told  him  about  the  great healer  called ‘Joshua’. 
Jabin determined, in spite of the laws that forbade it, to go to Joshua in Nazareth. 
And it happened when he was in a certain city (Nazareth), that behold, a man who was full of 
leprosy saw Joshua; and he fell on his face and implored him, saying: ‘Lord, if you are willing, you 
can make me clean.’ Then he put out his hand and touched him, saying: ‘I am willing, be cleansed.’ 
And immediately the leprosy left him. And he charged him to tell no one, ‘But go and show  yourself 
to  the  priest  (his  brother),  and  make  an  offering  for  your  cleansing,  as  a  testimony to  them,  just  as 
Moses commanded.’ Then the report went around concerning him all the more; and great multitudes 
came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities. So he himself withdrew into the 
wilderness and prayed. (Luke 5:12-16, also see Matthew 8:2-4) 
For the next fifteen days Joshua went into the wilderness, to the rocky hills of Nazareth to pray 
to  God,  his  Father.  As  the  Son  of  Man  with  bitterness  he  prayed  to  his  Father  to  forgive his 
persecutors as ‘they knew not what they were doing.’ 
Before  leaving  for K’far  Nahum,  Joshua  called  Yiacoub  to  him  and  said, ‘My  dear  Yiacoub, 
you know how much I love you, and I know how much you love me.’ He then told Yiacoub what had 
happened  in  the  Israelite  temple  and  how  he  had  dematerialized  himself  as  he  was  thrown over  the 
cliff. ‘Yiacoub,’ he said, ‘Do you know who I am?’ 
Yiacoub, kneeling before the God-man and looking up at him in adoration, replied, ‘My Most 
Beloved One and my Lord, I know. I have known for a long time that you are the pure manifestation 
of the El Shaddai incarnate. You are the Logos God, my Most Beloved One. I know my Lord.’ 
‘Yiacoub,’ said Joshua, ‘in the life of a man there are two roads with many byways. One road is 
the  one  most  human  beings  choose  while  living  in  this  life.  That  is  the  way  of  brief pleasure  and 
much  pain;  the  way  of  illusions  and  of  contention;  where  the  petty  little human self remains 
imprisoned  in  the  dungeons  of  the  world  of  separateness.  The  other  way—my  way—is  the  way  of 
Love. The love of God and of all human beings. This is the way of Truth, and it leads to Life eternal, 
everlasting.  This  is  the  way  of  God  the  Father;  the  way  of  Love  and of  service;  of  preaching  and 
healing. It brings Man to the Kingdom of the Heavens in the Spirit-Ego-Soul of every human being. 
Now  you  know,  dear  one,  why  I  have  come  to  this  world  of existence.  I  have  come  to  reveal  the 
Truth  and  to  show  our  brothers  and  sisters  the  way  back to our Heavenly  and  Divine  inheritance. 
You, my brother, are free to choose one of these ways.’ 
‘'My Most Beloved One,’ Yiacoub said, ‘you know the way I have chosen. I will be always at 
your feet, my Adonai Melekh (Lord King).’ 
‘Yiacoub,’ said  Joshua, ‘what  I  tell  you  now  I  want  you  to  keep  secret  from  your  father.  One 
day  the  ignorant  ones  will  kill  my  material  body,  which  I  will  resurrect.  If  you  follow  me,  the 
Israelites will kill your body too. The gates of the Heavens are open to you. For you will be with me.’ 
Then Joshua having spoken privately with Maria and Yioussouf, called Yiossaphat to him. ‘My 
dear Yiossaphat,’ he said, ‘I cannot accept  your plan that I  go to K’far Nahum with my mother and 
leave your father in Nazareth. Your wife has three sons to look after, and you have no need of your 

46 
 
father to work with you. Besides Yioussouf is too old now to work. And your eldest son is nineteen. 
He is strong and healthy; a man now, and already working at your side. Japheth, your second son, is 
already sixteen, and only Isshak is still a boy. 
‘Your house is too small for a family of five, and your workshop is too far from it. This house 
is bigger with a large, two room workshop in the yard, and it will suit you better. Tomorrow we will 
leave  for K’far  Nahum.  And  Yioussouf  will  go  with  us.  He  is  the  stepfather given  to  me  by  my 
Heavenly  Father, and I love him very dearly. My mother and I will look after him and see to all his 
needs.’ 
Before leaving, Joshua sent to Rabbi Aaron this message: ‘Rabbi Aaron,  I love  you and every 
other human being. My heart can give only love. God is Life-Love, and to love those who hate you is 
Divine. To love those who love you is human. But to hate those who love you, to attack and trying to 
kill them, is satanic. Who is he who has a demon in him? May our Heavenly Father bless you.’ 
And  on  the  following  day,  Yiossaphat  took  Yioussouf,  Maria,  Joshua  and  Yiacoub  in  a  four-
wheeled cart to K’far Nahum. The Holy Family arrived at the house of Shabbatai late in the afternoon 
and spent the night there. 
  

47 
 
CHAPTER NINE The Holy Family in K’far Nahum 
[TEACHING AND HEALING IN K’FAR NAHUM. THE PARABLE OF THE SOWER. 
THE GATHERING OF DISCIPLES. PREPARING DISCIPLES TO ‘GO OUT’ TWO BY TWO. 
RAISES A CHILD FROM ‘DEATH’. HE COMES TO HIS DISCIPLES OVER THE SEA.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The light shines in darkness, and the 
darkness did not comprehend it. (John 1:5) 
 
 
 
At noon on the day after the travelers from Nazareth arrived in K’far Nahum the Rayis Rabbi 
Samuel  came  to  welcome  Yioussouf,  Maria  and  Joshua.  He  was  very  glad  to  learn  that  they  had 
decided to  live  there  and  he  offered  Maria,  as  a  White  Dove  of  the  Heavens,  the  supervision  of the 
Homes for the ill and aged Essenes. To Joshua he offered the supervision of the schools, for children 
and adults. 
‘Beloved Joshua,’ Samuel said, ‘I remember when five years ago you came, a boy of twelve, to 
the  temple  in  Yerushalayim,  and  entered  so  gracefully,  dressed  in  the  long  white  robe  of  one 
dedicated to God. I was a Rabbi there with Rayis Rabbi Ephraim. He told us of the wonders you had 
worked in  Egypt,  but  we  thought  he  must  have  been  exaggerating.  I  was  sitting  that day beside  the 
Rayis  Rabbi  as  you  approached  each  of  us,  saying “Shalom”, looking  into  our eyes smiling,  and 
taking  our  hands  into  your  small  hands.  I  still  remember  what  a  pleasant  feeling  it was  and  what 
unexpected joy it gave me. You answered our questions before we asked them, knowing our minds, 
and  then  revealed  to  us—so convincingly—the  creative  work  of  the Holy Archangels  of  the 
Creation—omitted  from  the Sepher  Yetzirah.  We  were  enchanted,  every one of  us.  And  when  you 
lengthened the leg of Rabbi Eliakim, healing him, we knew that what Rayis Rabbi Ephraim had told 
us was no  exaggeration. Asa-Rabbi Joshua,  the  three  Essene temples K’far Nahum  and  the 
synagogues are yours. Welcome.’ 
To Maria the Rayis Rabbi said, ‘Maria, the main temple is only a hundred yards from here on 
the shore. There also is the synagogue hall. Next to the temple, is a house, belonging to it, surrounded 
by  a  large  garden.  It  is  yours.  You  will  find  there  everything  you  will  need.  And  I will  provide 
whatever is wanting for your family and guests. I will go now and send help so you can arrange the 
furniture just as you please. We want you to feel at home.’ 
By  noon  the  next  day,  the  family  had  settled  very  comfortably  in  their  new  home,  and Maria 
had taken up her duties; meeting the invalids, the ill, and the aged who lived in the Homes of charity. 
To all she gave her tender love and care. 
Yioussouf took upon himself the care of the gardens, with the help of the temple gardeners. It 
was Joshua’s wish that his stepfather be free of cares, for he had worked very hard all his life and was 
now nearly seventy. Yioussouf adored Joshua, who had been always a loving and obedient son. They 
were eager to please each other. 

48 
 
Joshua gave lessons in the Essene schools for children and adults in Greek and Aramaic. To the 
adults he taught the Torah, the Sepher Yetzirah, and the Laws of God the Father. He taught them that 
God is a God of Love, an Almighty God, Omnipresent and Wise. Samuel, the Rayis Rabbi, attended 
these lessons which only deepened his admiration and love for the God-man, the Beni Alaha, Joshua 
Immanuel. 
The Essene  temples  were  always  filled  to  overflowing  when  Joshua  preached.  Standing  on a 
raised  platform,  filling  the  temple  with  his  healing  aura,  he  stretched  out  his  hands  to  the 
congregation,  blessing  all,  he  began  with  a  prayer-glorification  of  God.  He  taught  in  a  sweet voice, 
sometimes in Greek, sometimes in Aramaic, how the loving Father gives us, His off spring, guidance 
to live our lives. 
 
Kodoish, Kodoish, Kodoish Adonai Alaha, 
Adonai Melekh Shamayyim, Adonai Elohim, 
Adonai Tsebaoth. 
Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God, Lord King  
of the Heavens, Lord of Hosts, Lord Sabaoth. 
 
 
 
Even  the  Pharisees  and  Scribes,  Essene  and  Israelite,  a  most  critical  audience,  were  surprised 
and  greatly  impressed  by  the  wisdom  and  the  most  convincing  manner  of  the  young Essene  Asa-
Rabbi.  
Whenever Joshua Immanuel had taught, as a boy and as a man, his holy aura had embraced his 
listeners, sometimes huge crowds of them, with love. In their enthusiasm many of his listeners would 
declare themselves to be his disciples—but often only for some time. 
In K’far Nahum, Joshua said... 
 
‘Behold,  a  sower  went  out  to  sow.  And  as  he  sowed,  some  seeds  fell  by  the  wayside;  and  the 
birds came and devoured them. Some fell on stony places, where they did not have much earth; and 
they immediately sprang up because they had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up they were 
scorched,  and  because  they  had  no  root  they  withered  away.  And  some  fell  among  thorns, and  the 
thorns  sprang  up  and  choked  them.  But  others  fell  on  good  ground and  yielded  a  crop: some  a 
hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.’ And the disciples came 
and said to him, ‘Why do you speak to them in parables?’ He answered and said to them, ‘Because it 
has been given to you to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven, but to them it has not been 
given. For  whoever  has,  to  him  more  will  be  given,  and  he  will  have  abundance; but  whoever  does 
not  have,  even  what  he  has  will  be  taken  away  from  him.  Therefore  I speak  to  them  in  parables, 
because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. And in them 
the prophesy of Isaiah is fulfilled which says: “Hearing you will hear and shall not understand, and 
seeing you will see and not perceive; for the heart of this people has grown dull. Their ears are hard 
of  hearing,  and their  eyes  they  have  closed,  lest  they  should  see with  their  eyes  and  hear  with their 
ears, lest they should understand with their heart and turn, so that I should heal them.” But blessed 
are your eyes for they see, and your ears for they hear; for assuredly, I say to you that many prophets 
and righteous men desired to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did 
not hear it. Therefore hear the parable of the sower: When anyone hears the word of the Kingdom, 
and  does  not  understand  it,  then  the  wicked  one comes  and  snatches  away  what  was  sown  in  his 
heart.  This  is  he  who  received  seed  by  the  way side.  But  he  who  received  the  seed  on  stony  places, 
this is he who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy; yet he has no root in himself, but 
endures  only  for  a  while.  For  when tribulation  or  persecution  arises  because  of  the  word, 
immediately he stumbles. Now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and 

49 
 
the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful. But 
he who received seed on the good ground is he who hears the word and understands it, who indeed 
bears fruit and produces: some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty.’ (Matthew 13:3-23) 
In the synagogue hall in K’far Nahum Joshua taught his disciple-healers belonging to the group 
of the seventy. 
‘Beloved  ones, Benai  Or (Sons  of  the  Light). Alaha,  God  the  Father,  gave  to  His  children, 
living as human beings, bodies that they might express themselves as human Ego-Selves.’ 
‘Human  bodies  are  created  by  the Bereshith  Bara  Elohim (the  Creator  Gods;  the  Holy 
Archangels), who are keeping them in good health for you. You must love your bodies, but you must 
not overvalue them. Your bodies are not you. They are the temples of God. They are the temples of 
your  Spirit-Soul-Ego,  of  your  BE-ness.  Your  bodies  are  given  that  you  may  live  righteous  lives  in 
them.’ 
‘The Father God, the Elohim, with the Bereshith Bara Elohim, created for all living creatures—
using  the Hashmal (the  Mind-Light)  and  the Merkabah (the  Divine  Mind-Light)—everything 
material and ethereal. The etheric Vitality in your material bodies has been given to you to use. You 
must train yourselves to control and use properly this etheric Vitality
*
, the Mind Supersubstance, so 
that you will be able to materialize it at will. To do it you must become masters of your minds. After 
exterminating  completely  his  personality’s egoism—and  this  has nothing  to  do  with  his  Ego-Self—
each  must,  as  a  sane,  reasonable,  responsible  person,  master his  mind  to  use  it  in  visualization—
constructing concrete, mental forms—and to use Mind energy to materialize them. 
‘The egoism of the personality is the illegitimate, insane child of the obscure desire, born in the 
darkness  of  ignorance,  and  of  Mind  substance.  It  is  a  collective  elemental,  misrepresenting  its 
temporal existence as the immortal Ego-Self, taking control of the whole personality, contaminating 
Mind  substance  in  the  human  subconsciousness.  The  disciple-healer  must  disentangle his  Ego-Self 
from  egoism  and  its  vices—greed,  anger,  hatred,  and  many  others.  With Mind  Supersubstance  and 
his will power he can succeed.’ 
These  were  the  instructions  the  God-man  Joshua  gave  his  disciple-healers  in K’far Nahum, 
Yerushalayim, and elsewhere. Joshua would ask Yiacoub, son of Yioussouf, to continue to work with 
them,  to  practice  and  to  give  instruction.  Although  many  presented  themselves  as disciples  and 
healers, only a few persisted in the discipline. This disappointed Yiacoub, but Joshua smiled and told 
him that everyone attending even one lesson is benefited. During the next ten years as Joshua taught, 
preached, and healed, many hundreds were cured, some by simply touching his white robe. 
And  he  came  down  with  them  and  stood  on  a  level  place  with  a  crowd  of  his  disciples  and  a 
great multitude  of  people  from  all  Judea  and  Yerushalayim,  and  from  the  sea-coast  of  Tyre  and 
Sydon, who came to hear him and be healed of their diseases, as well as those who were tormented 
with unclean spirits. AND THEY WERE HEALED ALL. And the whole multitude sought to touch him, for 
power went out from him and healed them all. (Luke 6:17-19) 
Now Joshua went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the Gospel of the 
Kingdom, and healing all kinds of sickness and all kinds of diseases among the people. Then his fame 
went  throughout  all  Syria;  and  they  brought  to  him  all  sick  people  who  were  afflicted with  various 
diseases  and  torments,  and  those  who  were  demon-possessed,  epileptics,  and  paralytics;  and  he 
healed them all. (Matthew 4: 23, 24) 
During  these  years  Joshua  Immanuel  trained  the  seventy  disciples  to  be masters  of  preaching, 
healing, and exorcising demons and unclean evil spirits. 
 
*) Etheric Vitality is referred to in varied places of the New Testament. In Luke 8:46, 6:19 and Mark 5:30 are accounts of 
Joshua releasing power: ‘virtue had gone out of him’ (Mark 5:30). ‘Virtue’ is synonymous with etheric Vitality in these 
instances of healing. 

50 
 
After these things the Lord appointed seventy disciples and sent them two by two before his face 
into every city and place where he himself was about to go. Then he said to them, ‘The harvest truly 
is great, but the laborers are few; therefore ask the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his 
harvest. Go your way; behold, I send you out as lambs among wolves. Carry neither purse, sack nor 
sandals; and greet no one along the road, but whatever house you will enter, first say “Shalom” to 
this house. And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest on it; if not, it will return to you. And 
remain in the same house, eating and drinking such things as they give, for the laborer is worthy of 
his  wages.  Do  not  go  from  house  to  house.  Whatever  city  you  enter,  and  they receive you,  eat  such 
things  as  are  set  before  you,  never  ask  anything  else.  And  heal  the  sick  who are  there,  and  say  to 
them, “The Kingdom of God has come near to you”.’ (Luke 10:1-9) 
Then  the  seventy  returned  with  joy,  saying: ‘Lord,  even  the  demons  are  subject  to  us  in  your 
name.’ And he said to them, ‘I saw the Satan fall like lightning from Heaven. Behold, I give you the 
authority to trample on serpents and scorpions, and over all the powers of the enemy, the Evil One, 
and  nothing  shall  by  any  means  hurt  you.  Nevertheless  do  not  rejoice  in this,  that  the  spirits are 
subject to you, but rejoice rather because YOUR NAMES ARE WRITTEN IN HEAVEN.’ (Luke 10:17-20)  
Meanwhile Joshua  had  chosen  his  twelve  Apostles,  who  traveled  with  him  as  he  taught  and 
preached  and  healed. Sometimes,  in  very  grave  cases,  in  his  work  as Mehayyai  Hametim (the One 
calling the dead back to life), he had only his two cousins, Yiacoub and Yiohannan, and Simon Petros 
with him. 
Now it came to pass in those days that he went out to the mountain to pray, and continued all 
night in prayer to God. And when it was day, he called his disciples to him; and from them he chose 
twelve whom he also named apostles: Simon, whom he also named Petros, and Andreas his brother; 
Yiacoub  and  Yiohannan;  Philippos  and  Bartholomeos;  Mattheos  and  Thomas;  Yiacoub  the son  of 
Alphaeus,  and  Simon  called  the  Zealot;  Judas  the  son  of  Yiacoub,  and  Judas  the  Iscariot, who 
became a traitor. (Luke 6:12—16) 
And he called the twelve to him, and began to send them out two by two, and gave them power 
over unclean spirits. He commanded them to take nothing for the journey except a staff—no bag, no 
bread, no copper in their purses, but to wear sandals, and not to put on two tunics. Also, he said to 
them, ‘In whatever place you enter a house, stay there till you depart from that place.’ (Mark 6:7-10) 
Joshua  told  his  disciples  what  would  come  to  those  who  would  refuse  to  listen  to  the  truth, 
insisting on living sinful lives. 
Now when Joshua had crossed over again by boat to the other side (Gadara), a great multitude 
gathered to him; and he was by the sea. And behold, one of the rulers of the synagogue came, Jairus 
by  name.  And  when  he  saw  Joshua,  he  fell  at  his  feet  and  begged  him  earnestly,  saying: ‘My little 
daughter lies at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her, that she may be healed, and she 
will  live.’ So  Joshua  went  with  him  and  a  great multitude  followed  him  and thronged  him.  Now  a 
certain  woman  had  a  flow  of  blood  for  twelve  years,  and  had  suffered  many things  from  many 
physicians. She had spent all that she had and was no better, but rather grew worse. When she heard 
about  Joshua,  she came  behind  him  in  the  crowd  and  touched  his  garment; for  she  said, ‘If  only  I 
may touch his clothes, I shall be made well.’ Immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up, and 
she felt in her body that she was healed of the affliction. And Joshua, immediately knowing in himself 
that power had gone out of him, turned around in the crowd and said, ‘Who touched my clothes?’ But 
his  disciples  said  to  him, ‘You  see  the  multitude  thronging  you and  you  say, “Who  touched  me?”’ 
And  he  looked  around  to  see  her  who  had  done  this  thing.  But the  woman,  fearing  and  trembling, 
knowing what had happened to her, came and fell down before him and told him the whole truth. And 
Joshua  said  to  her, ‘Daughter,  your  faith  has  made  you well.  Go  in  peace,  and  be  healed  of  your 
affliction.’ While  he  was  still  speaking,  some  came  from the  ruler  of  the  synagogues’s house  who 

51 
 
said; ‘Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the Rabbi any further?’ As soon as Joshua heard the word 
that was spoken, he said to the ruler of the synagogue, ‘Do not be afraid, only believe.’ And Joshua 
permitted no one to follow him except Petros,  Yiacoub,and  Yiohannan the brother  of  Yiacoub. Then 
he came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and saw a tumult and those who wept and wailed 
loudly.  When  he  came  in,  he  said  to  them, ‘Why make  this  commotion  and  weep?  The  child  is  not 
dead  but  sleeping.’ And  they  laughed  him  to scorn.  But  when  he  had  put  them  all  out,  he  took  the 
father  and  the  mother  of  the  child  and  those who  were  with  him,  and  entered  where the  child  was 
lying.  Then  Joshua  took  the  child  by  the hand,  and  said  to  her ‘Talitha  cumi,’ which  is  translated, 
‘Little  girl,  I  say  to you,  arise.’ Immediately  the  girl  arose  and  walked, for  she  was  twelve  years  of 
age.  And  they  were  overcome with  great amazement.  But  he  commanded  them  strictly  that  no  one 
should know it, and said that something should be given to her to eat. (Mark 5:21—43) 
Joshua sent his disciples in Shabbatai’s boat from Gadara to Bethsaida so that he, with Jairus, 
could  visit  the  Rabbi  who,  representing  the  Sanhedrin,  had  submitted  the  inflammatory  report 
concerning the exorcism of the demons from the two men into the sixty pigs. The Israelite Rabbi was 
bedridden, unable to walk. The practitioners had diagnosed paralysis with symptoms of epilepsy. 
The Israelite Rabbi, broken-hearted, was looking at Joshua, The most Merciful God-man filled 
the Israelite’s body with his Vitality and told him to rise. He was healed. Saying not a word, Joshua 
dematerialized  his  body,  before  the  astonished  eyes  of  the  Rabbi  and  Jairus,  rematerializing it  on  a 
nearby mountain, where he prayed to his Father, God. 
Immediately  he  made  his  disciples  get  into  the  boat  and  go  before  him  to  the  other  side,  to 
Bethsaida,  while  he  sent  the  multitude  away.  And  when  he had  sent  them  away,  he  departed  to  the 
mountain to pray. Now when evening came, the boat was in the middle of the sea; and he was alone 
on  the  land.  Then  he  saw  them  straining  at  rowing,  for  the  wind  was  against  them.  And about  the 
fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea, and would have passed them by. But 
when they saw him walking on the sea, they supposed it was a ghost, and cried out; for they all saw 
him and were troubled. And immediately he talked with them and said to them, ‘Be of good cheer! It 
is  I;  do  not  be afraid.’ Then  he  went  up  into  the  boat  to  them  and  the  wind ceased.  And  they  were 
greatly amazed in themselves beyond measure, and marveled. (Mark 6:45-51) 
Immediately  Joshua  made  his  disciples  get  into  the  boat  and  go  before  him  to  the  other  side, 
while  he  sent  the  multitudes  away.  And  when  he  had  sent  the  multitudes  away,  he  went  up  on  a 
mountain by himself to pray. And when evening had come, he was alone there. But the boat was now 
in the middle of the sea, tossed by the waves, for the wind was contrary. Now in the fourth watch of 
the  night  Joshua  went to  them,  walking  on  the  sea.  And  when  the  disciples  saw  him  walking  on  the 
sea, they were troubled, saying, ‘It is a ghost!’ And they cried out for fear. But immediately Joshua 
spoke  to  them,  saying, ‘Be  of  good  cheer!  It  is  I;  do  not  be  afraid.’ And  Petros  answered  him  and 
said, ‘Lord,  if  it  is  you,  command  me  to  come  to  you  on  the  water.’ So  he  said, ‘Come’.  And  when 
Petros had come down out of the boat, he walked on the water to go to Joshua. But when he saw that 
the wind was boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink he cried out, saying, ‘Lord, save me.’ 
And  immediately  Joshua  stretched  out  his  hand  and  caught  him,  and  said to  him, ‘O  you  of  little 
faith, why did you doubt?’ And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased. Then those who were in 
the boat came and worshipped him, saying, ‘Truly you are the Son of God.’ (Matthew 14:22-33) 
Some other time: 
On the same day, when evening had come, he said to them, ‘Let us cross over to the other side.’ 
Now  when  they  had  left  the  multitudes,  they  took  him  along  in  the  boat  as  he  was.  And  other little 
boats were  also  with  him. And  a  great windstorm  arose  and  the  waves  beat into  the  boat,  so that  it 
was already filling. But he was in the stern, asleep on a pillow. And they awoke him and said to him, 
‘Rabbi, do you not care that we are perishing?’ Then Joshua arose and rebuked the wind and said to 

52 
 
the sea, ‘Peace, be still.’ And the wind ceased and there was a great calm. And he said to them, ‘Why 
are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith?’ And they feared exceedingly, and said to one 
another, ‘Who can this be, that even the wind and the sea obey him?’ (Mark 4:35-41) 
Joshua Immanuel, the God-man, the Beni Alaha (the Son of God), the pure manifestation of the 
El  Shaddai (the  Logos)  in  a  human  body  as  the  Son  of  Man,  humanized  through  the  Idea of  the 
Heavenly Man, had come to the worlds of existence to teach, to heal, and to call back to the Kingdom 
of the Heavens the wayward offspring of his Divine Selfhood as the El Shaddai. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

53 
 
CHAPTER TEN  Yiohannan the Baptist in Jerikho 
[THE EARLY HISTORY OF YIOHANNAN THE BAPTIST. 
HE DEDICATES HIMSELF TO GOD AS A MONK-ASCETIC. HE BAPTIZES AND TEACHES. 
HE BAPTIZES HIS COUSIN, JOSHUA IMMANUEL. SHALOME FAILS TO SEDUCE HIM. 
HE IS IMPRISONED BY HEROD.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
God is a Spirit and those who worship 
him must worship him in Spirit and Truth. 
(John 4:24) 
 
 
 
Yiohannan the Baptist, the grandson of the Essene Rayis Rabbi Yioakhim and his wife Hannah, was 
born in Yerushalayim to Zakharias and Elizabeth. Elizabeth was the eldest daughter of Yioakhim and 
Hannah,  and  although  long  barren,  she  gave  birth  by  immaculate  conception  to Yiohannan  the 
Baptist. Yiohannan’s aunt, the second daughter of Yioakhim and Hannah, Miriam Shalome, the wife 
of  the  fisherman  Shabbatai,  bore  Yiacoub  (a  disciple),  and  then  by immaculate  conception, 
Yiohannan (St. John the Evangelist). 
By immaculate conception Yiohannan the Baptist’s grandmother, Hannah, gave birth to Maria, 
who gave birth to Joshua Immanuel, the God-man. Thus Yiohannan the Baptist, Yiacoub, Yiohannan 
the Evangelist, and Joshua Immanuel were first cousins by blood, sons of three sisters. 
Elizabeth,  the  mother  of  Yiohannan the  Baptist,  was  born  and  raised  in  Yerushalayim  in the 
Essene  community,  where  her  father,  Yioakhim,  was  the  Rayis  Rabbi,  the  chief  Rabbi,  head of  the 
Essene Rabbihood in Palestine. The next highest Rabbi was the Rayis Rabbi Shamaon, the brother of 
Hannah,  who  had  authority  over  the  Essene  temple  in  Yerushalayim.  Shamaon was  a  holy  man,  a 
scribe and prophet, in touch with the Archangels and the Shekhinah (Holy Spirit). 
Yiohannan  the  Baptist  was  six  months  older  than  his  first  cousin  by  blood,  Joshua Immanuel 
the God-man, the El Shaddai Lord God. Yiohannan had come ahead of Joshua to prepare his Way. 
Now Elizabeth’s full time came for her to be delivered, and she brought forth a son. When her 
neighbors  and  relatives  heard  how  the  Lord  had  shown  great mercy  to  her,  they  rejoiced  with  her 
Now so it was, on the eighth day that they came to circumcise the child; and they would have called 
him by the name of his father, Zakharias. And his mother answered and said, ‘No, he shall he called 
Yiohannan.’ But they said to her, ‘There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.’ 
So they made signs to his father, what he would have him called. And he asked for a writing tablet, 
and  wrote,  saying, ‘His name is Yiohannan.’ And  they  all  marveled.  Immediately  his  mouth was 
opened and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, praising God. (Luke 1:57—64) 

54 
 
As a prophet, Zakharias, holding Yiohannan in his arms, revealed the child’s destiny. 
... and YOU, child, will be called the prophet of the Highest. FOR YOU WILL GO BEFORE THE 
FACE  OF  THE  LORD  TO  PREPARE  HIS  WAYS, TO  GIVE  KNOWLEDGE  AND  SALVATION TO HIS 
PEOPLE,  BY  THE REMISSION  OF  THEIR  SINS.  Through  the  tender  mercy  of  our  God, by  which  the 
dayspring from on high has visited us. To give light to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of 
death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. (Luke 1:76-79) 
When  the  Holy  Family  had  fled  to  Egypt,  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Shamaon,  uncle  of  the mothers of 
both Yiohannan and Joshua, had sent Zakharias to be Rayis Rabbi of the Essene temple in Bethania, a 
town  northeast  of  Jerikho,  east  of  the  river  Jordan.  There  Yiohannan  was  raised. When  Yiohannan 
was  eighteen  months  old,  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Shamaon  passed  over  in  peace.  His successor,  the  Rayis 
Rabbi Ephraim, greatly respected and loved the righteous family of the Rabbi Zakharias. 
When Yiohannan was six, Zakharias passed over in peace, and Ephraim provided for Elizabeth 
and  Yiohannan.  Elizabeth  was  given  responsibilities  in  the  temple,  for  which  she  was generously 
paid.  And  Ephraim  supervised  the  education  of  Yiohannan  in  the  Essene  school  in Bethania.  There 
the boy was taught Greek and Aramaic, the Torah (the Law of God), and the Sepher Yetzirah (Book 
of Creation). Yiohannan was an exceptionally intelligent and devout child. 
When  he  was eleven,  a  year  before  the  Holy  Family  returned  to  Palestine,  Elizabeth passed 
over in peace, and Yiohannan asked Ephraim to allow him to become a novice in the order of Essene 
ascetics,  the Nazoraei.  Ephraim  advised  him  to  take  time  to  think  this  decision carefully  through. 
Yiohannan  told  the  Rayis  Rabbi  that  he  had  thought  about  it  most  seriously  and  it  was  his  ardent 
desire  to  dedicate  himself  to  God  as  a  monk-ascetic,  a Nazoraeos. Ephraim,  seeing  the  boy’s 
determination, sent him to the caves on the hillside west of the river Jordan, north of Jerikho, where 
two brothers lived; the Rahib (monk) Shunai and the Rahib Abijah. The Rayis Rabbi knew them to be 
righteous,  well  educated  old  men,  Nazoraei  ascetics, who  would  welcome  Yiohannan,  for  he  had 
asked  them as  a  friend  to  accept  and  protect  the boy  and  guide  him  in  his  new  life.  Before  leaving 
Yerushalayim,  where  he  had  been  living  on the  premises  of  the  Essene  temple  after  his  mother’s 
death, Yiohannan thanked Ephraim for all that he had done for his mother and for him and asked for 
his blessing. 
When Yiohannan came to the caves he found the Rahibs Shunai and Abijah sitting cross-legged 
on  the  ground  praying  in  ecstasy.  He  stood  silently  for  some  time,  until  they  returned  to normal 
consciousness.  The brothers  greeted  him,  embracing  him  and  blessing  him,  kissing  him on  the 
forehead. 
Yiohannan was a tall boy, healthy and strong. His body resembled a statue of a Greek god, his 
large, beautiful eyes were emerald-green, and his aura was radiant. The moment he entered the cave, 
he entered the brothers’ pure, old hearts. 
The monks wore short linen trousers and knee-length coats of camel skin, clasped with leather 
belts.  On  rare  occasions  they  wore  sandals.  A  good  man  from  Bethania,  who  was  a friend  to  the 
brothers  and  also  to  Elizabeth  and  Yiohannan,  provided  Yiohannan  with  two  pairs of  short  linen 
trousers, a coat of camel skin, and a belt. 
Yiohannan  served  faithfully  and  well in the  missionary  work  of  the  two  old monks,  whom he 
so dearly loved. They taught him to pray intensely and deeply, a prayer-meditation that led to ecstasy, 
clairvoyance,  clairaudience  and  mind  reading.  He  learned  to  leave  at  will  the  gross material  body 
(Greek: exosomatosis)  to  visit  other  places  on  the  planet  and  places  in  the  psychical and  noetical 
worlds. He also learned to project his consciousness at will to see what was happening anywhere he 
wished.  But  the  most  important  thing  he  learned  was  to  come  into  contact  with  the Shekhinah (the 
Holy  Spirit)  and  with  his  brethren  the  Archangels,  and  to WORSHIP  THE ADONAI ALAHA  (THE LORD 
GOD) IN SPIRIT AND IN TRUTH. 

55 
 
When Yiohannan was seventeen, Maout (death) had ended life in the material body for Rahib 
Shunai  returning  him  in  peace  to Alaha.  And  though Rahib Abijah  and Rahib Yiohannan remained 
behind in the caves, they never lost touch with their beloved Shunai. 
Then  two  years  later  Abijah  passed  over  in  peace  to  meet  his  brother  Shunai.  This  left 
Yiohannan  alone.  He  fed  himself  with  the  honey  wild  bees  stored  in  crevices,  putting  earthenware 
pots  beneath  the  honeycombs  to  catch  the  drips,  and  with  the  fresh  greens  of  the  herbs that  grew 
abundantly  along  the  banks  of  the  Jordan.  The  two  goats  that  he  had  milked  to  nourish the  old 
ascetics,  he  gave  away;  one  to  a  widow  and  the  other to  a destitute  woman that  she might  feed  her 
small children. 
After  Abijah had passed over, the Shekhinah (Holy Spirit) moved Rahib  Yiohannan to extend 
his  ministry  to  the  multitudes,  to  lift  from  their  personalities  the  burdens  of  guilt  they bore  for 
transgressing the  Law of  God.  He taught them to repent and correct the wrong they had committed, 
and he baptized them, immersing them in the river Jordan in the holy name of Alaha (God). 
Many  came,  including  Pharisees  and  Scribes,  with  guilt  and  remorse  heavy  upon  them  for 
transgressing  God’s Laws  by  living  improperly  and  unjustly,  asking  Yiohannan  to  purify  them 
through baptism. As he preached to the multitudes, Yiohannan could read in the minds of many the 
question, ‘Is this the Messiah for whom we have so long been waiting?’ Yiohannan answered them. 
Now  as  the  people  were  in  expectation,  and  all  reasoned  in  their  hearts  about  Yiohannan, 
whether  he  was  the  Messiah  or  not,  Yiohannan  answered,  saying  to  them  all, ‘I  indeed  baptize  you 
with water; but one mightier than I is coming, whose sandal straps I am not worthy to loose. He will 
baptize you with the Shekhinah (Holy Spirit) and-with fire. His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he 
will thoroughly purge his threshing floor and gather the wheat into his barn but the chaff he will burn 
with unquenchable fire.’ (Luke 3:15—17) 
When Yiohannan was twenty-six, his cousin, Joshua, who was  six months his junior, came to 
him most respectfully, and Yiohannan seeing the Shekhinah on him, understood that his cousin was 
the El Shaddai, the Beni Alaha, the expected One. 
After these things, Joshua and his disciples came into the land of Judea, and there he remained 
with them and baptized. Now Yiohannan also was baptizing in Aenon near Salim, because there was 
much  water  there.  And they  came  and  were  baptized.  For  Yiohannan  had  not  yet  been thrown  into 
prison.  Then  there  arose  a  dispute  between  some  of  Yiohannan’s disciples  and  the  Jews about 
purification. And they came to Yiohannan and said to him, ‘Rabbi, he who was with you beyond the 
Jordan, to whom you have testified—behold, he is baptizing, and all are coming to him.’ Yiohannan 
answered  and  said, ‘A  man  can  receive  nothing  unless  it  has  been  given  to  him from  Heaven.  You 
yourselves bear me witness, that I said, “I am not the Messiah, but I have been sent before him.” He 
who  has  the  bride  is  the  bridegroom;  but  the  friend  of  the  bridegroom,  who stands  and  hears  him, 
rejoices  greatly  because  of the  bridegroom’s voice.  Therefore  this  joy  of  mine is  fulfilled.  He  must 
increase  and  I must  decrease.  He  who  comes  from  above  is  above  all;  he  who is  of  the  Earth  is 
earthly and speaks of the Earth. He who comes from Heaven is above all. And what he has seen and 
heard,  that  he  testifies;  and  no  one  receives  his  testimony.  He  who  has  received his  testimony  has 
certified that God is true. For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for God does not give 
the  Shekhinah  (Holy  Spirit)  by  measure.  The  Father  loves  the  Son  and has  given  all  things  into  his 
hand. He who believes in the Son has everlasting life; and he who does not believe the Son shall not 
see life, but the wrath of God abides on him.’ (John 3:22—36) 
It came to pass in those days that Joshua came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by 
Yiohannan  in  the  Jordan.  And immediately,  coming  up  from  the  water,  he  saw  the  Heavens  parting 
and the Shekhinah (Holy Spirit) descending upon him like a dove. Then a voice came from Heaven, 
‘You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.’ (Mark 1:9—11 also see Matthew 3:13—17)  

56 
 
The members of the Sanhedrin in Yerushalayim were greatly disturbed to learn that Israelites, 
even Pharisees and Scribes, were asking this Essene Rahib to unburden their consciences and baptize 
them. Yiohannan made no distinctions but preached to all and gave to all his love and prayers. 
The  Princess  Shalome,  the  daughter  of  Philipos  and  Herodias,  was  curious  about Yiohannan 
and  asked  one  of  her  lovers,  Gideon,  a  bodyguard  of  Herod,  her  uncle,  who  was  also one  of  her 
lovers, to take her to where Yiohannan was preaching. 
Yiohannan  was  a  very  handsome  young  man.  His  emerald-green  eyes  and  his  sweet  voice, 
aroused  in  Shalome  sinful  thoughts  and  evil  desires  which  Shalome  mistook  for  love.  One autumn 
evening,  disguised  as  a  poor  shepherdess,  she  came  to  Yiohannan’s cave,  while  Gideon hid  the 
chariot in some trees and bushes. Yiohannan sat cross-legged on a rush mat, praying. Shalome sat on 
a  wooden  stool  beside  him,  pretending  to  weep.  Yiohannan  reading  her thoughts  and  projecting  his 
Self-consciousness said, ‘Shalome, you are the daughter of the madman, Philipos, and the shameless 
adulteress,  Herodias,  who  caused  the  death  of  your father  for  the  sake  of  her  lover,  her  husband’s 
brother, your uncle, Herod. Your mother forced Herod’s wife, Queen Aretta, to leave the palace and 
return  to  her  father,  the  King  of  Arabia. The  King  in  his  fury  then  declared  war  on  Herod  and  how 
many were killed on account of your mother’s shamelessness? I see Gideon, one of your many lovers 
hidden in the bushes and palm trees and there are four other swordsmen with him. Gideon is enraged 
by what you are doing. The others laugh at you and him. Gideon is married and has children. His life 
is with them, not with you. And your place, Shalome, is not here. Please go! Now! Go from me!’ 
Shalome  only  smiled  and  said, ‘Handsome,  barefooted  wild  man  with  a  camel  skin  coat. 
Caveman,  you  can  not  offend  me.  True,  my  place  is  not  here,  but  neither  is  yours.  I  love  you, 
Yiohannan, and would see  you in the silk clothes, the soft leather sandals and the jewels befitting a 
prince. The King will do whatever I ask. He will give you the title Prince, my Prince, and you alone 
will I hold in my heart. You are a precious stone  I have found on the floor of a cave.  I  would have 
that jewel at my breast. I want you, Yiohannan, and I always get what I want,’ she said with a laugh. 
‘Winter  is  coming.  That  camel  skin  coat  will  not  keep  the  cold  from  you.  Come  with  me to  the 
palace,  to  my  warm  room,  to  my  warm  bed.  I'm  going  now,  but  when  I  return,  it  will  not be  as  a 
shepherdess, but as a princess, Shalome of Judea, to take my Prince home with me.’ 
With  pity  in  his  eyes,  Yiohannan  looked  at  the  girl. ‘Shalome,’ he  said  gently, ‘may  God 
forgive you and lead you in His ways. Go now and do not come again. This is no place for you. Here 
is  where  I  belong.  Go  back  to  your  palace-hell.  I  love  this  place  which  has  been  sanctified  by  two 
holy men. I love my cave-paradise.’ And again he said simply, ‘Go please!’ 
Gideon, waiting for her, was gloomy and silent. The four swordsmen had bowed to the princess 
and  fled.  Silently  Gideon  drove  the  chariot  to  Jerikho,  to  Herod’s summer  palace, while  Shalome 
laughed  and  teased  him,  trying  to arouse  her  lover.  Gideon  reported  to  Herod and  Herodias,  telling 
them  of  Shalome’s visit  to  the  cave.  Herodias  was  all  too  familiar  with  the tricks  of  Shalome.  But 
Herod was angry. He considered Yiohannan to be a holy man. He called Shalome to him to question 
her.  Shalome  said  to  her  uncle  and  lover  that  she  wanted Yiohannan  brought  to  the  palace  as  an 
attendant to her. The King, smiling, told her to think this matter over. 
Herodias’ curiosity  got  the  better  of  her  and  with  Gideon,  she  went  to  see  this  caveman for 
herself.  Yiohannan  refused  to  admit  her,  saying,  'Herodias,  this  is  a  holy  place.  It  was  the home  of 
two holy men, who worshipped the Almighty Alaha. It is no place for a shameless adulteress like you 
or for your daughter.’ 
Furious,  Herodias replied, ‘Uncivilized savage man.  I came on Shalome’s behalf to bring you 
to the palace not as a servant, but as our attendant. You may be handsome enough to be an attendant, 
but she never told me you were such a beast!’ 
  

57 
 
Yiohannan interrupted her ravings. ‘Herodias,’ he said, ‘in the palace the ghost of your husband 
Philipos curses both King Herod and the shameless adulteress who now is his wife. Woman, you are 
a  devil.  The  devil  himself is  no  worse  than  you.  Return  to  your  palace-hell  and the  arms  of  your 
insane lover.’ 
Herodias  replied, ‘I  won't  repeat  what  you  have  said  to  the  King.  In  a  week  we  return  to  the 
palace in Yerushalayim, where my daughter will forget you entirely in her passion for dancing. I have 
plans to bring two famous dancers from the East to entertain and instruct her. You are nothing but an 
ignorant,  wild  beast,  and  do  not  deserve  what  I  have  offered  you.  Live  then  in your  cave,  wild 
jackal!’ 
Gideon was waiting in the carriage. In a terrible fury, Herodias took the reins and whipping the 
horses violently until they were covered with sweat and foam, she drove back to the palace. She ran 
to  her  room.  Screaming,  cursing,  and  smashing  things  against  the  walls  and floors,  she  cursed  and 
damned Yiohannan for his insolence. 
Exhausted, she told Shalome that she had gone to Yiohannan only for her sake and repeated to 
her  some  of  what  he  had  said,  her  own  version  of  insults  to  her,  to  the  girl,  and  to the  King,  even 
claiming that he had pushed her violently away. 
In   Yerushalayim   Herodias   did   everything   she   could  think   of   to  make   Shalome   forget 
Yiohannan.  Gideon  divorced  his  wife  to  please  Shalome  and  lived  in  the  palace  with  her. Dancing 
distracted her attention, and she took one of her teachers as another lover. 
That  winter  Yiohannan  gave  his  heart  over  completely  to Alaha and  to Joshua,  preaching and 
baptizing.  Having  seen  the Shekhinah on  Joshua  and  having  heard Alaha call  his  cousin ‘Beloved 
Son’,  Yiohannan  wanted  nothing  more  than  to  serve  the Beni Alaha.  Though  he  might  be  sitting 
alone  in  his  cave,  his  Soul  was  ever  attuned  to  Joshua,  the El  Shaddai (Logos)  and  he  knew 
unspeakable joy. 
With the return of summer the royal family came back to Jerikho. Herodias ordered Gideon to 
come to her at once if Shalome should ask him to take her to Yiohannan, as Herod had forbidden his 
niece  from  ever  seeing  him  again.  But  Shalome  was  as  obstinate  as  she  was  spoiled  and  was 
determined to seek out Yiohannan in order to humiliate him. With a servant of the household named 
Benjamin she secretly went to the caves. 
Yiohannan  gently  told  the  willful  girl  that  she  must  clear  her  mind  of  irrational  thoughts and 
desires.  This  excellent  advice  enraged  Shalome,  who,  fixed  upon  the  suspicion  that  there  must  be 
another woman influencing Yiohannan, then and there determined she would have her revenge. 
Herodias too decided she could no longer tolerate the insolence of the hermit and she went to 
Herod  and  told  him  that  Yiohannan  had  insulted  the  royal  family  and  that  he  was  stirring  up  the 
people against them with false accusations. She demanded that Herod have him arrested and thrown 
into prison. Though Herod had considered Yiohannan a holy man, now he turned to the Sanhedrin for 
advice,  and  the  Rayis  Rabbi  responded  that  the  activities  of  the Essene Rahib Yiohannan  violated 
Mosaic Law, and urged the King to put an end to them. 
And  so  one  day  at  noon,  as  Yiohannan  was  preaching  and  baptizing,  swordsmen  of  the King 
arrested him and dragged him off. Some of his followers tried to intervene, but Yiohannan told them 
to  go  peacefully,  as  he  surrendered  to  the  soldiers,  who  threw  him  into  a  dungeon  of the  palace  in 
Jerikho. The news of the arrest was most welcome to Herodias, who heard it from the King himself. 
  

58 
 
CHAPTER ELEVEN  The Mugkatdes Rahib-Shaheed Yiohannan 
[THE HOLY MONK-MARTYR YIOHANNAN THE BAPTIST.  IN THE DUNGEON. 
HE IS VISITED BY HIS FAMILY.  HE REFUSES THE KING’s ULTIMATUM. 
SHALOME’s DANCE OF THE SEVEN VEILS.  YIOHANNAN IS BEHEADED.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The God-man Joshua said: ‘And do not 
fear those who kill the body but cannot kill 
the Soul.’ (Matthew 10:28) 
 
 
 
Love those who call themselves your enemies. Pray for them. They are more in need of your prayers 
and of your love. (Joshua Immanuel the God-man) 
The  dungeon  of  the  Palace  at  Jerikho  was  a  large  underground  room,  dark  and  very  cold and 
damp,  as  it  was  lit  and  ventilated  only  by  small  openings  in  the  roof.  By  order  of  the  Queen, 
Yiohannan  was  given  once  a  day  only a  handful  of  olives,  a  crust  of  bread, and  a clay  jar  of water. 
The  guard  was  a  good-hearted  fellow,  and  secretly  he  gave  Yiohannan  a  woolen  cloth  for warmth 
against the cold of night. Herodias allowed no visitors. She meant to keep the imprisonment a secret, 
especially  from Shalome,  who  was  told  that  Yiohannan  had  gone  off,  perhaps  to Syria,  to  be  with 
another woman.  
King Herod and Herodias may have imprisoned the material body of Yiohannan, but as a man 
of Alaha he  could  live  Self-consciously  out  of  his body.  Many  of  his  followers  and  disciples  were 
aware  of  his  presence,  inspiring  and  encouraging  them,  while  his  material  body, languishing  in  the 
dungeon,  remained  at  Herod’s mercy.  In  attunement  and  in  at-one-ment  with the Shekhinah (Holy 
Spirit)  and  with Joshua  the  God-man,  the El  Shaddai (Logos),  Yiohannan was  happy  and  never 
complained nor felt any anxiety or fear, no matter what suffering his material body endured. Indeed, 
he prayed for those who were transgressing against him. 
Yiohannan had been four months in prison when Herodias and Shalome set off on a journey of 
three days to Yerushalayim. They went there to buy jewels from a merchant who had come from the 
Far  East.  It  was  a  good  opportunity,  Herod  thought,  to  see  Yiohannan.  He  ordered the  prisoner 
brought  to  the  guard’s room  in  chains.  Yiohannan  was  so  weak  he  could  hardly walk.  The  guard 
helped  him  to  a  stool,  where  he  sat  resting  his  back  against  the  wall.  When  the King  entered,  he 
demanded  that  the  prisoner  stand,  and  in  trying to  obey,  Yiohannan  fell  to  the ground.  The  guard 
helped  him  stand  and  by  the  King’s order  helped  him  back  to  the  stool, where  he  sat  breathing 
heavily, pale and exhausted. Herod asked what the prisoner was being fed and the guard replied that 
by order of the Queen he was given daily about fifteen olives and a little bread and water. Then the 
King asked Yiohannan why he had insulted and maligned the Queen. He kept repeating the questions, 

59 
 
but Yiohannan was too weak to answer. In truth he was little more than a corpse, bones covered with 
dry,  yellow  skin.  Herod  told  the  guard  to remove  the  chains  and  to  help  him  back  down  to  the 
dungeon where he might rest, but the King’s head was too full of Herodias’ lies to leave much room 
for pity. 
When Shalome and Herodias returned from Yerushalayim, Herod told his wife that he had seen 
Yiohannan in the guard’s room, remarking that he was little more now than a living corpse. He would 
order Yiohannan to apologize to her and Shalome, begging their forgiveness, and then he meant to set 
him free  to  die  in  his  cave.  Her  voice  hard  with  anger,  Herodias  shouted, ‘No! No!  I  can  never 
forgive  the  things  that  brute,  that  madman  said  to  me.  If  you  want  to  be  done with  him,  order  a 
swordsman to kill him!’ Herod managed to calm her down, and the discussion ended.  
The  hot  summer  passed  and  the  chill  of  late  autumn  fell  over  Palestine.  The  royal  family 
returned  to  Yerushalayim  and  Yiohannan  was  transferred  to  the  dungeon  there.  The  King  was 
persuaded  by  friends  to  allow  some  relatives  of  Yiohannan  to  visit  him  in  prison.  Very  few  dared 
come  but  among  those  who  did  were  Shabbatai,  Yiacoub  and  his  brother  Yiohannan,  and  their 
mother, Myriam Shalome (Yiohannan the Baptist’s aunt). Seeing his condition, Shabbatai, Yiacoub, 
and  Myriam  Shalome  wept  openly.  Yiohannan  (the  Evangelist)  embraced  Yiohannan (the  Baptist) 
caressing  his  cousin’s face.  They  were  cousins  by  blood  as  human  beings,  but  as Archangels, 
humanized   by   immaculate   conception   by   the Shekhinah (Holy   Spirit),   they   expressed their 
Archangelic love. Both knew what fate awaited Yiohannan the Baptist in a few weeks. 
A fresh strength had returned to Yiohannan, and he said, ‘My beloved ones, be at peace. Why 
do  you  weep?  This  poor  body  is  not  me.  Beloved  ones,  I  am  happy,  in  perfect  attunement with  the 
Shekhinah and with the God-man Joshua, the Beni Alaha, the El Shaddai (Logos). There is no cause 
to weep. I am free. I was always free. And I—my Self—I am happy.’ 
 
It is the Spirit who gives life, the flesh profits 
it nothing. (John 6:63) 
 
As  Essenes, Yiohannan  and  Joshua  believed  in  the  reincarnation  of  the  Spirit-Soul-Self into 
human bodies. Of his cousin, Yiohannan the Baptist, the God-man Joshua said, And if you are willing 
to receive it, he is Elijah* who is to come. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. (Matthew 11:14) 
Herodias  decided  that  the  time  had  come  to  exact  revenge.  She  was  sure  that  Shalome, 
obsessed  with  dancing,  no  longer  thought  of  Yiohannan.  She  proposed  to  Herod  that  he  order 
Yiohannan  to  apologize  to  her  and  to  Shalome  in  their  presence  and  beg  their  forgiveness.  And so 
they  told  Shalome  that  Yiohannan  was  being  held  prisoner  in  the  dungeon  of  the  palace. Herodias 
was  right  in  thinking  that  Shalome  had  put  the Rahib out  of  her  mind.  But  still  she was  more  than 
willing  to  witness  his  humiliation  and  hear  him  beg  for  her  forgiveness.  The  following  day  Herod 
ordered the prisoner to be brought before them in the guard’s room.  
Yiohannan, so weak he could no longer walk, was supported by a guard and a servant and sat 
upon  a  stool.  There was  nothing  left  of  his  material  body  but  bones  and  dry,  sallow  skin.  Shalome 
was  horrified  and  ran  from  the  room,  looking  back  at  her  mother,  who  was  smiling  cunningly, 
thinking  vengeance  was  finally  hers.  But  Herod  called  his  niece  back, and  Herodias  took  her in  her 
arms. 
 
 
 
*) Was Yiohannan-Elijah two personalities, humanized and incarnated by the same Spirit-Self (?) 
— now in the hands and at the mercy of Herod-Ahab and Herodias-Jezebel? 
(See Chronicles and Kings in the Old Testament) 
  

60 
 
‘Yiohannan,’ said  the  King, ‘you  have  offended  the  Queen  and  the  Princess  with your insults 
and accusations. I order you now to apologize and beg them to forgive you.’  
Yiohannan  looked  upon  the  royal  family  with  pity  saying, ‘Apologize  for  what?  For  what 
should  I  ask  forgiveness?  Would  it  alter  the  consequences  of  what  you  have  done,  all  of  you, and 
what  you  continue  to  do?  Would  it  ever  lighten  the  painful  burden  of  guilt  on  your  consciences, 
which Alaha will awaken one day? It is you who must repent and beg Alaha to forgive you... and in 
His  great  mercy,  He  will.’ Exhausted,  Yiohannan  fell  unconscious  in  the  arms  of the  guard.  Herod 
ordered the prisoner returned to his cell. Herodias smiled.  
In  the  sitting  room  of  the  palace the  next  day,  Herodias  maliciously  said  to  Herod, ‘My dear, 
did that madman apologize? No, he only accused us again. I know you want to be rid of him, as do I. 
I can  hardly  bear  to  have  him  here.  Order  a  swordsman  to  kill  him.  It’s what  he deserves.  He 
disobeyed you.’ 
All  that  day  Herod  was distracted,  sullen  and  depressed.  And  Herodias  was  nervous  and bad-
tempered. For the fruit of revenge is sweet in the eating, but bitter and painful to digest. 
Days passed with no further discussion of the matter as Herod’s birthday approached. Herodias 
was preoccupied with preparations for the feast. For years Herodias had been aware of her daughter’s 
talent and passion for classical dance, and had provided her with the best teachers in the world. Now 
she  was  planning  to  present  the  distinguished  guests  at the  feast with  a  birthday  surprise.  With  her 
teacher, Shalome would perform the dance of the seven veils in the Great Hall. 
Herodias  had  invited  sixty  eminent  Israelites,  six  Rayis  Rabbis  of  the  Sanhedrin,  and  some 
noted Greek scholars and artists. A stage  was laid out in the Hall of Meetings on the right side near 
the  entrance.  Shalome’s teacher  was  from  Mesopotamia,  a  distinguished  Israelite  dancer and 
musician,  who  had  his  own  ballet  and  musical  ensemble.  The  ballet  consisted  of  six  beautiful  girls 
matched  in  size  and  shape,  skillfully  trained,  and  dressed  in  ankle-length  canary  yellow  trousers. 
Their waists and breasts were bare. And three male dancers in black velvet trousers, their waists and 
chests also bare. The principal dancer was Princess Shalome, dressed in seven veils. 
The  first  veil  was  a  shawl  of  snow-white  silk  wound  round  her  waist  and  covering  the upper 
part of ankle-length matching trousers. The second veil was a triangular shawl of canary yellow silk 
covering the shoulders and falling over her breasts. The third was a large emerald-green silk triangle, 
completely covering the second. The fourth was long, covering the whole body. It was sky-blue. The 
fifth was blood-red, a robe, knee length and easily removed. The sixth completely  covered the fifth, 
violet and also a loose robe. And the seventh was a black velvet robe that fell to the ankles. 
The guests sat in six semi-circular rows. In the middle of the first row was the royal family. On 
the Queen’s left the most distinguished guests were seated. On the right of each seat a small table was 
placed with roasted meat, bread, sweets, fruit, and clay jars of sweet red wine—which attendants kept 
filled. 
At two o'clock in the afternoon Herod, Herodias, and Shalome made their grand entrance. The 
musicians  played  a  slow,  melodious,  oriental  piece  as the  dancers  entered and  performed a  graceful 
dance. Shalome sat between the King and Queen, wearing the seven veils. 
The instructor entered the Hall, dressed as the male dancers in black velvet.  He bowed before 
Herod,  bowed  before  Herodias,  kissing  her  right  hand,  and  then  reaching  out  his  right hand  to 
Shalome he bowed to her. She took his hand, and they leapt gracefully together to the stage, dancing. 
The  music  quickened  and  the  dancers  responded  with  graceful  movement. Shalome  and  her  partner 
were  encircled  by  the  nine  dancers.  The circle  then  opened  to allow the  Princess and  her  partner  to 
approach the King and Queen. Shalome removed the seventh veil and laid it at the feet of the King. 
The pace quickened, showing off the skill of the dancers. Shalome removed the sixth veil and laid it 

61 
 
at her mother’s feet. The instructor left the Hall, leaving Shalome to dance in the blood-red robe with 
the six dancing girls. Then he returned in trousers the color of dry wood. He lay on the floor while the 
girls  danced  around  him  and Shalome  came  down  to  sit  on  his  chest,  moving  her  whole  body  and 
waving  her  arms  and  hands like  flames.  It  gave  the  illusion  of  dry  wood  set  afire.  The  guests  were 
dazzled,  the  King  could not hide  his  admiration  for  Shalome, and  Herodias  smiled,  delighted. 
Shalome removed the blood-red robe she wore in the fire dance and gave it to the King.  
Again  the  rhythm  quickened.  Now  Shalome  was  a  creeping  serpent  in  the  sky-blue  and 
emerald-green veils, dancing with great skill and exposing her beautiful, young body. Removing the 
blue and green veils, she presented them to the Queen, her mother, and then sat between the King and 
Queen to rest. 
The  King  was  drunk.  Herodias  had  been  plying  him  with  the  sweet  red  wine.  He  passed the 
golden bowl of wine to Shalome, and she quickly swallowed it. The sun was setting, and some of the 
guests rose to leave, saluting the King and Queen, saying, ‘shalom, long live the King.’  
The Queen had given Herod a gold medal to honor the teacher of dancing as both a dancer and 
a  musician.  The  instructor  bowed  before  the  King  and  taking  the  medal,  thanked  the Sovereign. 
Herod  caressing  the  head  of  Princess  Shalome  said  to  her, ‘Dearest  one,  today  on my  birthday  you 
have given me such great joy and brought such pleasure to my guests. What would you have me give 
you in return?’ Thoughtlessly, drunkenly, he continued, ‘I will give you whatever you ask for if it is 
within my power.’ 
Herodias listening closely set her trap. ‘Your Majesty, do you swear you will give the Princess 
whatever she asks for?’ 
‘Yes,’ replied Herod, ‘to my beloved Shalome, whatever she desires.’ 
Herodias  drew  her  daughter  close  and  whispered  to  her  urgently.  The  girl  obligingly  nodded 
agreement. Then Herodias picked up a bronze platter from the table at her side and cleared it of what 
food remained. This she gave to Shalome, who presented it to Herod saying, ‘Your Majesty,  I  want 
the head of Yiohannan on this platter.’ 
‘No!’ the King cried, ‘Oh, no, Shalome, no!’ 
Smiling Herodias said, ‘You gave an oath and a King cannot withdraw his oath.’ 
In his despair the King buried his face in his hands for a moment saying, ‘Shalome, I will give 
you authority over half my kingdom...’ 
But  Herodias  would  have  none of  that  and  signaled  her  feelings  to  her  daughter. ‘Your 
Majesty,’ Shalome repeated, ‘I want the head of Yiohannan on this platter.’ 
The King took the platter from her hands and gave it to the swordsman at his side saying, ‘Go 
now and bring me the head of Yiohannan.’ 
As the swordsman and the guard entered his cell, Yiohannan was praying, knowing  what was 
to come. The swordsman with one terrible blow beheaded the Rahib Yiohannan. The guard covered 
the body with the piece of wool he had secretly given the Rahib against the cold. There was not much 
blood. The swordsman carried off Yiohannan’s head on the tray, leaving the guard to weep. 
When the head was presented to Herod, he would not touch it. Gaping stupidly at Shalome and 
Herodias,  he  had  the  swordsman  give  it  to  the  girl.  Shalome,  with  her  head  turned away  from  the 
horror, gave the platter to her mother. Herodias covered the head with the sky-blue veil and ordered a 
servant to remove it. She thought she had just won a great victory and could not be happier. In reality 
she had won nothing except confusion and misery. 
At that time, Herod the tetrarch heard the report about Joshua and said to his servants, ‘This is 
Yiohannan the Baptist; he is risen from the dead, and therefore these powers are at work in him.’ For 
Herod had laid hold of Yiohannan and bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his 

62 
 
brother  Philipos’ wife.  For  Yiohannan  had  said  to  him, ‘It  is  not  lawful  for  you  to have  her.’ And 
although  he  wanted  to  put  him  to  death,  he  feared  the  multitude,  because  they counted  him  as  a 
prophet.  But  when  Herod’s birthday  was  celebrated,  the  daughter  of  Herodias danced  before  them 
and pleased Herod. Therefore he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. So she, 
having been prompted by her mother, said, ‘Give me Yiohannan the Baptist’s head here on a platter.’ 
And the King was sorry; nevertheless, because of the oaths and because of those who sat with him at 
the table, he commanded it to be given to her. So he sent and had Yiohannan beheaded in prison. And 
Yiohannan’s head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. 
Then his disciples came and took away the body and buried it and went and told  Joshua. (Matthew 
14:1-12) 
Early the following morning, Herodias called the guard to her and ordered him to dispose of the 
head and body of Yiohannan. The guard, who had been baptized secretly by Yiohannan, took the blue 
veil and burned it. The body and head of the Mugkatdes Rahib-Shaheed (Holy Monk-Martyr) he gave 
the disciples of Yiohannan wrapped in a cloth of snow-white linen. 
His disciples, who were also disciples of Joshua, took the mortal remains of Yiohannan to the 
Essene Rayis Rabbi Ephraim. When Joshua arrived at the temple in Yerushalayim from K’far Nahum 
to  preach  he  found  the  Essene  Rabbis,  and  most  of  his  seventy  disciples  weeping  over the  coffin 
where the head and body of Yiohannan had been laid. Ephraim seeing Joshua gave way to deep sobs 
of grief. Joshua calmed him, telling him it was the Will of Alaha. And to them all he said, ‘Beloved 
ones, Benai Alaha, do not weep for Yiohannan. He is with our Father who is in Heaven and on Earth. 
He is now with you. He was with me always and always I was and am now with him. What lies here, 
in this coffin, is not Yiohannan, but only the body Yiohannan used as a human being. I am not asking 
that  you  disrespect  these  mortal  remains,  but  that  you remember,  it  is  the  Spirit  which  is  life.  The 
material body, the flesh, profits nothing. Matter we must give to the element of matter.’ 
The  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim  intended  to  bury  the  body  in  the  cemetery  in  Yerushalayim,  but 
Joshua, in attunement with Yiohannan, told him that it was the Rahib’s wish that the remains of his 
material body be buried in the caves, near the Rahibs Shunai and  Abijah.  And so it was. The Rayis 
Rabbi,  the  Essene  Rabbis,  the  disciples  of  both  Joshua  and  Yiohannan  and  their  families,  buried 
Yiohannan in his cave. 
 
 
  

63 
 
CHAPTER TWELVE  Joshua Immanuel the God-Man’s Life  
and His Ministry in Palestine 
[JOSHUA PROPHECIES HIS CRUCIFIXION AND THE FALL OF YERUSHALAYIM. 
HE TEACHES THE SWEETEST COMMANDMENT:  THE DOCTRINE OF LOVE. 
THE SANHEDRIN PLOTS AGAINST HIM.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I am the Light of the world. He who follows 
me shall not walk in darkness but have the 
Light of Life. (John 8:12) 
 
 
 
Joshua  Immanuel,  the  God-man,  was  twenty-eight  when  his  cousin,  Yiohannan  the  Baptist  was 
beheaded. Yiohannan the Evangelist, first cousin to them both, was nineteen.  
Since his return from Egypt as a twelve-year- old boy, Joshua had been preaching in the Essene 
temple in Yerushalayim and teaching in the synagogue with the permission and support of the Rayis 
Rabbi Ephraim, who recognized Joshua as the Beni Alaha and adored him. Great crowds attended the 
teachings of  the  God-man.  Essenes  and  Israelites,  Pharisees  and  Scribes, were  taught,  were  healed, 
were astonished by his powers and by his holiness. Ephraim was concerned by this, remembering the 
attempt by the Sanhedrin on Joshua’s life. 
Joshua  taught  the  hundreds who  heard  him  in  the  synagogue  and  in  the  countryside  with 
parables. 
So he spoke this parable to them, saying, ‘What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he loses 
one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness, and go after the one which is lost until 
he  finds  it?  And  when  he  has  found  it,  he  lays  it  on  his  shoulders,  rejoicing.  And  when  he  comes 
home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, “Rejoice with me; for I have found 
my sheep which was lost!” I say to you that likewise there will be more joy in Heaven over one sinner 
who repents than over ninety-nine just persons who need no repentance.’ (Luke 15:3—7) 
By  the  time  Yiohannan  the  Baptist  passed  over,  Joshua  was  already  sending  his  seventy 
disciples, both as preachers and healers, out to the towns of Judea and of Galilee, two by two. They 
had been well trained, these seventy, in the mastery of their etheric Vitality in the Tzoolmah (etheric 
double)  of  their  material  bodies.  To  his  Essene  disciples  Joshua  said, ‘My  beloved ones, Benai  Or 
(Sons of Light), I send you out as lambs among wolves. Your love towards all men and the peace in 
your  hearts  will  protect  you.  The  harvest  is  truly  great,  and  the  laborers are  few.  Let  us  beseech 
Alaha, the Lord of the harvest, to send more laborers to His harvest.’ 
As Ephraim was so alarmed by the threats against Joshua, he urged him to keep secret the times 
of his journeys between K’far Nahum and Yerushalayim. One day while standing at a window in the 
house  of  the  Rayis  Rabbi,  which was  perched  on  a  hillside,  Joshua  looked  down  on Yerushalayim, 

64 
 
two miles away, and saw then what was to happen sixty years hence. ‘Reverend Rayis Rabbi,’ Joshua 
said, ‘the war-loving Israelites, the mad King Herod, and the Rayis Rabbis of the Sanhedrin will one 
day  declare  war  on  the  Romans.  Already  they  have  created  an  underground  movement  of Zealots, 
who  secretly  attack  and  kill  Roman  soldiers.  In  fifty  or  sixty  years the  Romans  will  destroy 
Yerushalayim  utterly.  Though  that  is  not  predestined,  I  see  no possibility  that  the  Sanhedrin  will 
understand the consequences of their actions and change their minds.’ 
There  were  tears  in  the  eyes  of  Joshua,  who  knew  himself  also  as  the  Son  of  Man. 
‘Yerushalayim,  Yerushalayim,’ he  cried, ‘you  who  kill  the  prophets and  stone  the  messengers  of 
Alaha.  How  often  have  I  tried  to  gather  your  children  together—Essenes,  Israelites,  and  all  the 
others—as  a  hen  gathers  her  chicks  under  her  wings  to  keep  them  safe.  But  you  are  stubborn and 
willful. And now your house will be desolated. For I say to you, Yerushalayim, you shall see me no 
more until you say, “Blessed is he who comes in the name of Adonai Alaha.”’ 
‘Rayis Rabbi, when the Rayis Rabbis, the Sanhedrin, and Herod declare war on the Romans, no 
stone will remain on a stone in Yerushalayim. For now nothing will befall me. I will finish the work 
my Father has sent me to accomplish. But then the Israelite Rayis Rabbis will arrest me, accusing me 
of  blasphemy,  and  hand  me  over  to  Herod  and  then  to  the  Roman procurator,  demanding  that  I  be 
crucified.’ 
‘My  material  body  they  will  wound  grievously,  torturing  it,  crucifying  it,  killing  it.  In  three 
days, I will restore it completely, resurrecting it, leaving only on my hands and feet the marks of the 
nails  and  the  wound  in  my  side from  the  Roman  soldier’s spear,  as  proof  to  my  disciples that  it  is 
truly I they see risen. I ask you to be calm, for it is for that hour that I have come to the world. That I 
may  prove  that  Man  is  not  his  material  body  nor  the  little  self,  the  personality  created  by  time-and-
place, the shadow of the real Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self, the immortal offspring of Alaha.’ 
‘I  have  come  to  this  world  as  the  Son  of  Man  to  prove  beyond  a  shadow  of  doubt  that  the 
Spirit-Soul-Self  gives  life  to  the  material  body,  the  bones,  the  flesh,  the  blood.  The  body  profits 
nothing.  I  have  come  to  this  world  of  existence  to  reveal  to  men  our  Heavenly  Father,  mine and 
theirs, the Truth and the Light-Life everlasting, that they may love Alaha and all human beings.’ 
In  the  Essene  synagogue  that  afternoon  Joshua  told  the  overflowing  crowd  of  the  great 
tribulation  that  he  foresaw  would  be  visited  on  Yerushalayim. ‘The  Sanhedrin  and  King  Herod,’ he 
said  bitterly, ‘think  they  are  strong  enough  to  force  the  Romans  out  of  Palestine.  They  will declare 
war on the Romans and Yerushalayim will be destroyed by fire and sword.’ 
...  then  let  those  who  are  in  Judea  flee  to  the  mountains.  And  let  him  who is  on the  house top 
not go down into the house, nor enter to take anything out of his house. And let him who is in the field 
not go hack to get his garment. But woe to those who are pregnant and to nursing mothers in those 
days! And pray that your flight may not be in winter. For in those days there will be tribulation, such 
as has not been since the beginning of the creation which God created until this time, nor ever shall 
be.  And  unless  the  Adonai  (Lord) had  shortened  those  days,  no  flesh  would be  saved;  but  for  the 
elect’s sake, whom he chose, he shortened the days. (Mark 13:14-20) 
The following day Joshua went to the Temple of King Sol-Amon (Solomon) in Yerushalayim at 
the invitation of two Israelite Pharisees. 
Then Joshua went out and departed from the temple, and his disciples came to him to show him 
the buildings of the temple. And Joshua said to them, ‘Do you not see all these things?  Assuredly, I 
say to you, not one stone shall be left here upon another, that shall not be thrown down.’  
(Matthew 24:1-2) 
The  Israelite  disciples  of  Joshua  had  heard  what  Joshua  foretold  of  the  Great  Tribulation and 
understood the God-man. 

65 
 
On  the  Sabbath  Joshua,  dressed  in  his  ankle-length,  snow-white  linen  robe, conducted with 
Ephraim and the other Essene Rabbis, the morning service of worship and thanksgiving to Alaha, the 
most Merciful, Heavenly  Father. The temple overflowed. Many  Israelites had arrived to take part in 
the  Essene  ceremony,  so  different  from  any Jewish  service.  In  the  yard  of  the Temple  more  than  a 
hundred people waited for Joshua to heal them with his love and his Divine healing powers. Among 
them were Essenes, Israelites, and others including families of the afflicted, and two Israelite Rabbis, 
who had not attended the service in the Essene temple. 
Accompanied  by  Ephraim,  Joshua  came  out  into  the  courtyard.  He  went  to  them  one  by one 
and, caressing their hands and their heads and smiling upon them with love, he healed them. In less 
than ten minutes all who had come to him, lepers among them, and many with ‘incurable’ diseases, 
were  made  whole.  The  two  Israelite  Rabbis  watched  this, murmuring reproachfully  that  Joshua  was  
violating the Sabbath. 
But Joshua answered them: 
‘My  Father  has  been  working until  now,’ and  I  have  been  working...  Most  assuredly,  I  say to 
you, the Son can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father do; for whatever he does, the Son 
also does in like manner. For the Father loves the Son, and shows him all things that he himself does; 
and  he  will  show  him  greater  works  than  these,  that  you  may  marvel.  For  as  the  Father raises  the 
dead and gives life to them, even so the Son gives life to whom he will.’ (John 5:17, 19-21) 
That  afternoon  Joshua  addressed  another  great  crowd in  the  synagogue.  He  stood  on  the 
platform in his snow-white linen robe, his arms outstretched and hands raised to the ceiling, the Son 
of Man as a human being, but also a pure El Shaddai Self, as he filled the hall with his love and his 
aura saying,  
 
To the Israelites he said in Aramaic, 
Kodoish, Kodoish, Kodoish, Adonai Alaha, Adonai Tsebaoth, Adonai Elohim. 
Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God, the Lord Sabaoth, the Lord of the Archangels. 
Then Joshua, in at-one-ment with his Divine Self, the El Shaddai, said in Greek, ‘Beloved ones, 
offspring of Alaha, love the Adonai Alaha and the Adonai Elohim in you. Love your Alaha in you—
your  Being-Ego-Self.  Love  your Spirit-Soul-Self and love  your Adonai Alaha in every other human 
being.  
‘Beloved ones, Alaha is in you and the Melekh Shamayyim (the King of the Heavens) is in your 
Spirit Being-Self. You are the Melekh Shamayyim.’ 
‘The El Shaddai and the Shekhinah are in your Being-Self. The Shekhinah keeps your material 
body  in  good  health  through  your Tzool-mah (etheric  double)  filling  it  with Neshamah (Vitality). 
“Ateh  Gibor  Leolam  Adonai (You  are  mighty  forever,  O  Lord),  always  filling  our Hakhamim (vital 
body) with your Divine life-giving Vitality.”’ 
‘Beloved  ones—Essenes,  Israelites,  Greeks,  Bedouins,  Romans,  and  all  human  beings  on this 
Earth—you  are  all  offspring  of  the Alaha  El  Shaddai.  To  call  another  your  enemy  is  an insult  to 
Alaha.  All  human  beings  are  individualized  little  selves  in  the El  Shaddai Divine Selfhood.  Love 
Alaha,  the Adonai,  the Spirit-Soul-Self  of  all  human  beings,  your  brothers  and sisters,  the  sons  and 
daughters of your Father Alaha.’  
‘Love  those  brothers  and  sisters  who  are  under  the  influence  of  the  Evil  One,  calling 
themselves your enemies. They need your love more than your friends. Pray to the Heavenly Father, 

66 
 
yours  and  theirs,  that  they  may  be  freed  from  the  dark  snares  of  the  Wicked  One,  going from  the 
darkness of ignorance into the light of your love. 
‘In the gross material world the Evil One, the Master of Evil, of Darkness and Ignorance reigns 
and has power only for a limited time over matter and human flesh. But the Master of Evil, his petty 
evil existence, is no match to the Lord of Life, the Lord of everlasting  Light, to the Spirit-Soul-Self, 
the  real  Self-Soul  of  a human  being. IT  IS  THE SPIRIT  WHO  GIVES  LIFE; THE FLESH  PROFITS 
NOTHING.’ 
But I say to you who hear: Love those calling themselves your enemies, do good to those who 
hate  you.  Bless  those  who  curse  you  and  pray  for  those  who  spitefully  use  you.  To  him  who strikes 
you on the one cheek, offer the other also. And from him who takes away your cloak, do not with hold 
your  tunic either.  Give  to  everyone  who asks  of  you.  And from  him  who  takes  away  your goods,  do 
not  ask them  back. And  just  as  you  want men  to  do to  you, you  also  do  to  them  likewise. But if you 
love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if 
you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. 
And  if  you lend to  those  from  whom  you hope  to  receive  back,  what credit  is  that to  you? For  even 
sinners lend to sinners to receive as much back. But love those who call themselves your enemies, do 
good and lend, hoping for nothing in return; and your reward will be great and you will be sons of 
the Highest. For he is kind to the unthankful and evil. Therefore, be merciful, just as your Heavenly 
Father also is merciful. Judge not, and you shall not be judged. Condemn not, and you shall not be 
condemned.  Forgive and  you  will  be  forgiven.  Give, and  it  will  be  given  to  you:  good  measure, 
pressed  down,  shaken  together  and  running  over  will be  put  into  your  bosom.  For  with  the  same 
measure that you use, it will be measured back to you. (Luke 6:27-38) 
An  Israelite  disciple  said  to  Joshua, ‘Rabbi,  you  have  said... “To  him  who  strikes  you  on the 
one  cheek,  offer  the  other  also.” What  if  he  continues  slapping  you?  I  cannot  convince myself  that 
accepting the slaps of an unmannerly person will help.’ 
Joshua  Immanuel  answered, ‘Beloved  one,  offering  real  Love  to  those  who  call  themselves 
your enemies will change them, ending their unreasonable enmity. Imagine someone coming to you, 
shouting and slapping you. You look at him with love asking, not with words but with a look, why he 
is  striking  you?  Usually  he  will  shout  his  reasons  at  you.  And  if  you  are  calm,  you may  understand 
why he is behaving so.  If  you have said or done something to anger him, ask him to forgive  you.  It 
will calm him. Offer him your hand, and your friendship, and do it whole-heartedly.’ 
‘But Master,’ the disciple said, ‘what of those who carry daggers or knives or other weapons?’ 
‘Imagine now, my dear one, in your mind’ replied Joshua, ‘that before you is an angry person 
who is shouting and attacking you, slapping your face. You react with anger, returning his slaps. The 
slaps  become  punches  and  kicks.  He  draws  his  dagger.  You  draw  yours.  You  stab  each other. 
Bloodshed,  wounds,  often  death,  and  hell  on  Earth.  My  dear  one,  anger  and  weapons  are not  an 
answer. “A tooth for a tooth” and “an eye for an eye” is not for us. I insist emphatically: “To him who 
strikes you on one cheek, offer the other also.”’ 
The  Israelite  Rabbis  were  deeply  disturbed  by  these  words.  They  left  the  synagogue  arguing 
angrily,  claiming the  Essene  Rabbi  was  abolishing  the  Mosaic  Law.  The  courtyard  was  filled with 
more than a hundred sufferers, many in  great pain, with wounds and illnesses that were ‘incurable’. 
Joshua  concluded  his  lesson  saying, ‘No  weapon  protects.  Instead  weapons  are provocations  and 
dangerous temptations. Only love can protect us.’ And with the Rayis Rabbi Ephraim he went out of 
the  synagogue.  In  the  courtyard  he  went,  as  he  usually  did,  to  each  of the  sick  and  infirm  to  caress 
their heads and hands, healing them, saying, ‘Your sins are forgiven. Sin no more.’ 
  

67 
 
These  words  incited  the  Israelite  Rabbis  and  some  Pharisees  who  overheard  them. ‘Who are 
you to forgive sins?’ they cried. ‘Only Alaha can forgive sin, blasphemer. We charge you in the name 
of Alaha to  tell  us  who  you  are!’ Joshua  answered, ‘Ehyeh  Asher  Ehyeh,  Ehyeh  Beni Alaha’ (I  am 
that I am. I am the Son of God). 
Infuriated, the Israelite Rabbis cried, ‘You are an Archdemon! You abolish the Law of Moses! 
You violate  the  Sabbath!  You  deceive  the  people  when  saying  you  can  forgive  their  sins! And  you 
call yourself the Son of God, accursed blasphemer!’ 
The two Pharisees, who were good-hearted and broad-minded, thought that if the Rayis Rabbis 
and Rabbis, and those Pharisees and Scribes who were set against Joshua, could hear him teach and 
witness him healing, that might change their hearts and minds. So they invited Joshua to the Israelite 
temple on the Sabbath, later in the afternoon. 
That  temple  too  was  filled  to  overflowing,  and  in  its  courtyard  was  a  great  crowd  of  those 
seeking healing. Many lay on the ground moaning in their pain. Among them were two lepers, who, 
by violating the laws of quarantine, had caused a panic in the crowd. Joshua went first to the lepers. 
He  uncovered  their  mutilated  faces  and  unwound the  bandages  from  their  limbs.  He caressed  the 
awful  wounds,  healing  them  entirely.  And  one  by  one  he  healed  them  all,  saying, ‘Your  sins  are 
forgiven.’ The  Rayis  Rabbis  had  been  astonished  by  the  healings,  but  still  the words  of  the  Essene 
Rabbi infuriated them. 
Joshua  entered  the  temple  with  the  two  Pharisees,  followed  by  the  angry  Rayis  Rabbis  and 
other  Rabbis. Joshua  in the  pulpit in  his snow-white  robe  was  like  an  Archangel.  Stretching  out his 
hands towards the ceiling, he said, 
Kodoish,  Kodoish,  Kodoish,  Adonai  Alaha,  Adonai  Bereshith  Bara  Elohim,  Alaha  Hashmal. 
Alaha Shamayyim. Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God. The Lord of the Archangelic Hosts. The God of 
the Light. The God of the Heavens. 
While Joshua was trying to speak to the congregation of his Father’s Love for all His children 
the  Rayis  Rabbis  repeatedly  interrupted.  In  the  meantime  another  crowd  had  gathered  in the 
courtyard. Joshua suspended his talk and went to them, with the Rayis Rabbis following close behind. 
While  he  was  healing  the  sufferers, a  boy  of  fifteen,  goaded  by  a  Rabbi,  threw  a stone  at Joshua.  It 
struck  him  on  the  right  shoulder.  Joshua  turned  to  the  boy  smiling  and  sending to  him  love,  his 
blessing,  and  the  wish  that  he  might  one  day  come  to  the  Truth.  When  all were  healed,  Joshua 
returned  to  the  temple.  The  Rayis  Rabbi  of  the  temple,  in  collusion  with other  Rayis  Rabbis  of  the 
Sanhedrin,  ordered  that  stones  be  piled  in  the  courtyard  to  stone  the blasphemer  to  death.  Joshua, 
reading  their  thoughts,  said  to  them, ‘You  have  seen me  healing, doing  good  to  our  brothers.  For 
which of these good works would you have me killed?’ 
‘Most assuredly, I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin. And a slave does not abide 
in the house forever, but a son abides forever. Therefore, if the Son makes you free, you shall be free 
indeed.  I  know  you  are  Abraham’s descendants,  but  you  seek  to  kill  me,  because  my  word  has no 
place  in  you.  I  speak  what  I  have  seen  with  my  Father,  and  you  do  what  you  have  seen  with your 
father.... Which of you convicts me of sin? And if I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? He who 
is of God hears God’s words; therefore you do not hear because you are not of God.’ Then the Jews 
answered  and  said  to  him, ‘Do  we  not  say  rightly  that  you  are  a  Samaritan  and  have  a demon?’ 
Joshua answered, ‘I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father and you dishonor me. I do not seek 
my own glory; there is One who seeks and judges. Most assuredly, I say to you, if any one keeps my 
word, he shall never see Maout (death).’ Then the Jews said to him, ‘Now we know that you have a 
demon!  Abraham  is  dead,  and  the  prophets,  and  you  say, “If  anyone  keeps  my  word he  shall  never 
taste  death.” Are  you  greater  than  our  father  Abraham  who  is  dead?  And the prophets  are  dead. 
Whom do you make yourself out to be?’ Joshua answered, ‘If I honor myself, my honor is nothing. It 
is my Father who honors me, of whom you say that he is your God. Yet you have not known him, but I 

68 
 
know him, and if I say, “I do not know him,” I shall be a liar like you. But I do know him and keep 
his word.  Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad.’ Then the Jews 
said  to  him, ‘You  are  not  yet  fifty  years  old,  and  have  you  seen Abraham?’ Joshua  said  to  them: 
‘Most assuredly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I AM.’ (John 8:34-38, 46-58) 
As  he  left  the  temple,  he  faced  the  Sanhedrin  executioners  armed  with  stones,  intent  on his 
destruction. Joshua, dematerializing his material body, passed through them invisibly. 
Then  they  took  up  stones  to throw  at  him;  but  Joshua  hid  himself  and  went  out  of the  temple, 
going through the midst of them, and so passed by. (John 8:59) 
The  following  morning  Joshua  returned  to  the  Israelite  temple  for  the  sake  of  the  two good-
hearted Pharisees  and  his  Israelite  disciples.  Some  of  the  Sanhedrin  Rabbis  were  present and  two 
Rayis Rabbis, full of disappointment that their plot had failed. The two Pharisees and the disciples of 
Joshua,  who  were  also  present,  were  plainly  appalled  by  the  behavior  of  the Rayis  Rabbis.  In  the 
midst of this a man, blind from birth, approached Joshua... 
Now  as  Joshua  passed  by,  he  saw  a  man  who  was  blind from  birth  and  his  Israelite  disciples 
asked him, saying, ‘Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?’ Joshua 
answered, ‘Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God should be revealed in 
him. I must work the works of him who sent me while it is day; the night is coming when no one can 
work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.’ When he had said these things, he 
spat on the ground and made clay with the saliva; and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the 
clay. And he said to him, ‘Go, wash in the Pool of Siloam’ (which is translated, Sent). So he went and 
washed, and came back seeing. Therefore the neighbors and those who previously had seen that he 
was blind, said, ‘Is not this he who sat and begged?’ Some said, ‘This is he.’ Others said, ‘He is like 
him.’ He said, ‘I am he.’ Therefore they said to him, ‘How were your eyes opened?’ He answered 
and said, ‘A man called Joshua made clay and anointed my eyes and said to me, "Go to the Pool of 
Siloam and wash." So I went and washed and I received sight.’ Then they said to him, ‘Where is he?’ 
He said, ‘I do not know.’ They brought him who formerly was blind to the Pharisees. Now it was a 
Sabbath when Joshua made the clay and opened his eyes. Then the Pharisees also asked him again 
how he had received his sight. He said to them, ‘He put clay on my eyes, and I washed and I see.’ 
Therefore some of the Pharisees said, ‘This man is not from God, because he does not keep the 
Sabbath.’ Others said, ‘How can a man who is a sinner do such miracles?’ And there was a division 
among them. They said to the blind man again, ‘What do you say about him because he opened your 
eyes?’ He said, ‘He is a prophet.’ But the Israelites did not believe concerning him, that he had been 
blind and received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight. And they 
asked them saying, Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?’ His 
parents answered them and said, ‘We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind; but by 
what means he now sees we do not know, or who opened his eyes we do not know. He is of age, ask 
him. He will speak for himself His parents said these things because they feared the Israelites, for the 
Israelites had agreed already that if anyone confessed that he was the Messiah he would be put out of 
the synagogue. Therefore his parents said, ‘He is of age, ask him.’ So they again called the man who 
was blind and said to him, ‘Give God the glory! We know that this man is a sinner.’ He answered and 
said, ‘Whether he is a sinner or not, I do not know. One thing I know, that though I was blind, now I 
see.’  Then  they  said to  him  again,  ‘What  did  he  do  to you?  How  did  he  open  your  eyes?’  He 
answered them, ‘I have told you already and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? 
Do you also want to become his disciples?’ Then they reviled him and said, ‘You are his disciple, but 
we are Moses’ disciples. We know that God spoke to Moses, as for this fellow we do not know where 
he is from.’ The man answered and said to them, ‘Why, this is a marvelous thing  that  you  do  not 
know  where  he  is  from;  and  yet  he  has  opened  my  eyes.  Now  we  know  that  God  does  not  hear 
sinners, but if anyone is a worshipper of God and does his will, he hears him. Since the world began, 

69 
 
it has been unheard of that anyone opened the eyes of one who was born blind; If this man were not 
from God, he could do nothing.’ They answered and said to him, ‘You were completely born in sins, 
and are you teaching us?’ And they cast him out. Joshua heard that they had cast him out, and when 
he had found him, he said to him, ‘Do you believe in the Son of God?’ He answered and said, ‘Who is 
he, Lord, that I may believe in him?’ And Joshua said to him, ‘You have both seen him and it is he 
who is talking with you.’ Then he said, ‘Lord, I believe!’ And he worshipped him. (John 9:1—38)  
The  Israelite  disciples  of  Joshua  felt  in  their  hearts  great  anger  towards  the  Israelite  Rayis 
Rabbis, the Rabbis, and those Scribes and Pharisees who were under the influence of the Sanhedrin. 
They believed them to be both fanatical and malicious. But knowing his disciples’ hearts, Joshua said 
to  them, ‘Dear  ones,  do  not  poison  yourselves  with  anger  against  those  who call  themselves  our 
enemies.  For  they, too, are  our  beloved  ones,  intoxicated  for  the  present  by the  illusions  of  the 
material  world.  Sooner  or  later  they  will  wake  up  to  the  Truth.  Clean  your hearts  of  anger  and 
complaint. Those feelings create dark elementals, and our lost brothers are in need of our prayers, our 
good elementals of light, and of our love. Dear ones, love those who call themselves your enemies.’ 
The  next  morning  Joshua,  Yiohannan,  and  the  two  Yiacoubs,  sons  of  Yioussouf  and  of 
Shabbatai,  left  Yerushalayim.  Joshua  did  not  tell  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim  or  the  others  what  had 
transpired  in  the  Israelite temple,  knowing  how  much  it  would  disturb  them.  Only  Yiohannan who 
was in complete attunement with his beloved Joshua and was Self-conscious out of his material body, 
understood everything. 
 
 
 
 
 
  

70 
 
CHAPTER THIRTEEN  The Essenes of Palestine 
[THE LIFE OF THE ESSENES. THE WORK OF TWO ESSENE NOVICES: STEPHANOS AND YIASSOUNAI. 
ON THE SABBATH, JOSHUA TEACHES AND HEALS. ESSENE SEE OF YERUSHALAYIM. 
THE GOD-MAN TRAVELS TO K’FAR NAHUM.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall 
see GOD. (Matthew 5:8) 
 
 
 
 
Most of the Essenes in the area of Yerushalayim lived in the southeast part of the city and in a suburb 
two  miles  southeast  and  a  mile  and  a  half  east  of  the  Pool  of  Eels.  Here  only  Essenes, some  ten 
thousand, made their home. Elsewhere in Judea there were Essenes living in Bethania (Bethany), east 
of the river Yiardna (Jordan), in another Bethania, south of Yerushalayim, and also in Yiopi,  Lydda, 
Arimathaea and elsewhere. 
There were several other population centers of Essenes in Palestine. In K’far Nahum four fifths 
of  the  population  were Essenes.  Here  there  were  four  Essene  temples  and  synagogues and  only  one 
Israelite  temple.  There  were  other  large  settlements  in  Bethsaida,  Gennesaret, Magdala,  Sennabris, 
Philotheria,  and  elsewhere  in  Galilee. Essenes  lived  in  Samaria,  in  the town  of  Samaria,  in  Sykhar 
and  in  Sikhem.  They  lived  in  peace  with  the  Samaritans,  whom  the Israelites  despised  as Kaparuta 
(heretics). A third of the population of Palestine was Essene. 
In  the  Essene  suburb  of  Yerushalayim was  the  See  of  the  Essene  Rayis  Rabbi  who  had 
authority over all the Essenes of Palestine. 
With  the  cooperation  of  the  Rayis  Rabbi  of K’far  Nahum  and  an  assembly  of  twelve  Rayis 
Rabbis whom he had chosen, the Rayis Rabbi of Yerushalayim supervised the religious, educational 
and cultural life of the Essenes. The educational standard of the community and the overall standard 
of  living  were  very  high.  The  Essenes  were  always  just  and  fair  in  their  dealings  and  would  not 
tolerate slavery. Real love and respect existed among them. 
The  assembly  of  Rayis  Rabbis,  consulting  with  other  Essene  Rayis  Rabbis  and  Rabbis, 
reinterpreted  the Torah.  They  declared  temple  sacrifices  to  be  impure  and  anachronistic,  and they 
prohibited  all  forms  of  cruelty.  They  worshipped  always  and  everywhere  a  Merciful  and Loving 
Alaha,  the Omnipresent,  Omnipotent,  Omniscient  Father  of  all  human  beings;  and  the Elohim,  the 
Creators  of  everything.  The  religious  services,  the  hymns  and  the  prayers  of  thanks-giving,  were 
entirely recast. These reformations were made in the Essene monastery in Secacah, Qumran (Metzad 
Hassidim).  The  beliefs  and  practices  of  the  Essenes  infuriated  the Israelite  Rayis  Rabbis,  who 
branded them heretics. 
  

71 
 
The Essenes considered the Israelites to be their brothers. As they had refused to accept Rome’s 
offer  of  naturalization,  they  were  under  the  authority  of  the  King  of  Israel  and  were  forced to  pay 
temple  taxes  to  the  very  Israelite  Rayis  Rabbis  who  repeatedly  tormented  them. The Sanhedrin,  the 
Israelite Pharisees and Scribes, and the Israelite Rayis Rabbis and Rabbis were not all opposed to the 
Essenes,  but  with  the  emergence  of  the  Zealots,  the  underground,  secret movement  to  expel  the 
Romans  from  Palestine,  the  hostility  and  violence  against  the  peace-loving Essenes  became  more 
open. 
The Samaritans, who had converted wholeheartedly to a belief in Alaha, suffered much at the 
hands  of  the  Sanhedrin.  The  Samaritans  had  accepted  the  protection  of  Rome  by  being naturalized, 
and the Israelites, whom the Samaritans considered their enemies, called them ‘idolaters’.  
The Sanhedrin was arming the Zealots with swords, daggers and spears, and these secret bands 
of fanatics where stalking and killing Roman soldiers in the night. 
The   Essene   Rayis   Rabbis   instructed   their flocks   to   be   patient   and   tolerant,   avoiding 
confrontation,  no  matter  what  the  provocation.  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim  in  Yerushalayim  was  so  well-
loved and respected by the Essenes that his wise suggestions were always obeyed. 
Joshua left K’far Nahum for four days each month to preach, teach, heal and train his disciples 
in the Essene See of Yerushalayim. In the Essene See of the Holy City were: 
• The Rayis Rabbi Ephraim 
• Six Rayis Rabbis and fifteen Rabbis with their families, teaching in the two Essene schools, 
for children and adults, in the temple quarters, 
• Two Essene novices training for the Rabbihood, who lived in the house of the Rayis Rabbi  
Ephraim, 
• and personnel. 
Four rooms facing the temple with a private entrance, in the house of the Rayis Rabbi, were set 
aside  for  Joshua’s use.  These  were  the  rooms  where  Maria  had  been  brought  up  by  her uncle 
Shamaon. Two adjoining rooms were given to Yiassounai, a thirteen year old Essene novice. Next on 
the long corridor were three big rooms on the ground floor with three rooms above on the first floor 
where  the Rayis  Rabbi  lived.  There  was  a  covered  terrace  over  Yiassounai’s rooms. Beyond 
Ephraim’s quarters on  the  ground  floor  were  two  rooms  belonging  to  Stephanos,  a  sixteen-year-old 
novice  and  the  son  of  Ephraim’s sister.  Across  that  corridor  were  seven  rooms used  by  the  other 
Rayis  Rabbis  who  taught  in  the  schools.  Also  in  the  See  quarters  of  the  temple  were  houses  for 
another Rayis Rabbi and his family and seven Rabbis with their families. 
In  the  Essene  high  School  the two  novices,  Yiassounai  and  Stephanos,  studied  Greek  and 
Aramaic  (as  the  services  for  worship  and  thanksgiving  were  conducted  in  the  Essene  temples in 
Greek and Aramaic), and the Torah, the Sepher Yetzirah, along with Essene hymns and prayers. They 
were required to take part in every service in the temple, learning by heart all the prayers and reciting 
them with loving devotion. 
It was an honor for Yiassounai to be allowed to care for the altar in the Holy of Holies, to keep 
perpetually lighted the ‘inextinguishable flame’ of the olive oil lamp and to burn incense there, a duty 
that  was  normally  performed  by  the  Rayis  Rabbi.  He  tended  the  gardens  of  the temples  and 
synagogues  with  the  help  of  two  elderly  gardeners.  Yiassounai  assisted  Stephanos in  caring  for  the 
Rayis  Rabbis;  serving  meals  in  the  dining  rooms  to  the  Rayis  Rabbis,  the Rabbis  and  their  guests. 
Stephanos’ other responsibilities were to see that the schools were clean and in good order, and that 
the teachers were supplied with the materials they needed. 
As novices destined for the Rabbihood the two boys were taught by the Rayis Rabbi the Essene 
Torah and the Essene faith and practices. Yiassounai and Stephanos loved each other very much, and 
to the great pleasure of the Rayis Rabbi, who loved them both deeply, they never quarreled or argued 
or harbored hard feelings on any matter. The Rayis Rabbis called them ‘Angels of Love’. 
  

72 
 
Yiassounai  saw  to  it  that  the  rooms  that  his  Most  Beloved  Joshua  used  four  days  of  every 
month were kept scrupulously clean. The air in these rooms was sweet with the scent of flowers and 
filled with the boy’s love. 
In  the  first  week  of Tammuz (July)  Joshua  returned  to  the  Essene  temple  in  Yerushalayim. 
Early  that  morning  Stephanos  and  Yiassounai  had  everything  ready  in  the temple. The  Rayis Rabbi 
Ephraim,  the  other  Rayis  Rabbis,  and  the  Rabbis  were  worshipping  in  the  temple  when Joshua 
entered. All stood up to welcome him. He went to the pulpit and, filling the temple with his aura and 
love, stretched out his arms to the Heavens, saying in Greek: 
 
 
Seeing Israelite disciples among the rest, he said the same in Aramaic: 
 
Kodoish, Kodoish, Kodoish Adonai Alaha, Adonai Tsebaoth, Adonai Elohim. 
Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God, Lord Sabaoth, Lord of the Archangelic Hosts. 
 
Then Joshua  reached  out  his  arms  to  the  audience,  blessing  them  and  attuning  himself  to his 
Divine El Shaddai (Logos) Selfhood, spoke:  
‘My  beloved  ones,  all  of  you  are  offspring  of  mine,  Spirit-Soul-Egos,  immortal  Gods,  Ego-
Selves, in my infinite Selfhood.’ 
‘I am the Lord, your God in you. I am your Ego-Being-Self. I am the Lord, your God in every 
other human being. I am the Ego-Being-Self of all human beings. I am the Creator of everything, and 
I am in everything existing.’ 
‘Beloved  ones,  be  still,  be  calm,  and  listen  to  me.  I  am  the  everlasting  Life,  the  life  in  every 
living being and in every living thing in my Omnipresence. Listen to me. I will speak to you in your 
mind also, by intuition.’ 
‘Listen to me and understand. I, together with the Holy Archangels, have given you a material 
body, and we are sustaining it continuously for you to live in. I have given you bodies to be my Bat-
Salmaynu-Kidmuthenu (Image and likeness). I have given you the Divine Light Body, the Merkabah, 
in its violet light, to give you the Hokhmah (Wisdom) in my worlds of other dimensions. I have given 
you  a Kuch-ha-guf (the  body  of  sensations  and  emotions).  Do  not allow  the Siddim (Evil  Ones)  to 
contaminate  it  with  illusions  and  darkness.  I  have  given  you  in your  material  body  the Tzool-mah 
(etheric  double).  Find  it,  and  use  it  well.  Cooperate  in  it  with the  Archangels  in  your  body  in  their 
creative work. Feel your etheric double and fill it with my Neshamah, with Mind-Light-Vitality.’ 
‘Be still. Be calm and listen to me. I have given you in your material body a human heart. I am 
in the pulse of your heart. Hear me in the pulse of your heart. In the pulse of your heart is my love for 
you. Clean your heart. Make it a crystal clear mirror to reflect my love—your love—to every human 
being,  my  offspring.  Find  me  and  listen  to  me.  I  am  Life  in  your  heart.  I have  given  you  two  eyes 
well protected in their sockets. You can see the material light and in this light you can see everything 
material  in  the  material  world.  Feel  me  in  my  Omnipresence. I have  given  you  in  your  chest  two 
lungs to breathe my air and my Life-giving Vitality. Breathe deeply and feel the air you are breathing 
in your lungs. You can feel me there and you can hear me in your breath. I am in your breath. 
‘Beloved offspring, all of you, I am the Life in your bodies. I am the Life everywhere. I am the 
everlasting Life. I am the Omnipresent, Omniscient, and Omnipotent infinite Selfhood. All of you are 
my Self-conscious Ego, Spirit-Soul-Beings, immortal Gods.’ 
 
  

73 
 
‘Be  still.  Be  calm.  Listen  to  me.  I  have  given  you  the  Mind  to  use,  that  you  may  understand 
who you are. I am the Adonai Alaha (the Lord God). I am God, your Divine Father. I am the Adonai 
Elohim (the Lord of Hosts), the Omnipresent, Omniscient, and Omnipotent Alaha Elohim. I am Alaha 
El Shaddai (God the Logos) and Alaha Elohim Shekhinah (God the Holy Spirit). See me in the Life-
Love-Light  in  you.  I  am  the  light  emanating  from  the  material  sun. I  am  in  the  inextinguishable 
Mind-Light in the everlasting Wisdom. Feel me and see me in the Strength and Power of Nature. See 
me  and  hear  me  in  the  storm.  Hear  me  in  the  wind  and  see me and  hear  me  in  the  thunder  and 
lightning. Hear me and see me in the raging sea. 
See me as the beauty of the trees in bloom; see me as the symmetry in all forms; see me in the 
blossoming  flowers;  and  feel  me  in  their  sweet  fragrance  and  see  me  in  their  lovely  hues. I  am  the 
everlasting Life in your immortal Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self in my infinite Selfhood. The Maout (death) is 
not a reality, but an illusion. The reality is everlasting  Life. Your ever changing bodies are not you. 
Your  Self-conscious  Ego-Being  is  an  immortal  Spirit-Soul-Being.  I  am  not the Alaha of  the  dead.  I 
am the Alaha of everlasting, immortal, Self-conscious Gods, beloved offspring of mine.’ 
Joshua  concluded  by  giving  to  all  present  in  the  temple  his El  Shaddai Love.  The  court yard 
was already overflowing with the sufferers and their families. Some were men and women moaning 
in  pain.  Some  were  children  crying  piteously.  There  were  more  than  two  hundred,  all waiting 
expectantly for Joshua. 
Stephanos and Yiassounai went first to help the invalids and clear away. Then Joshua came out, 
accompanied  by  Ephraim  and  the  other  Rayis  Rabbis  and  Rabbis.  Most  of  the  supplicants  were 
Israelites, and this was their Sabbath. Two Israelite Rabbis, spies of the Sanhedrin, lurked in a corner, 
smiling  cunningly.  As  Joshua  approached  the  afflicted  and  began to  heal,  an  Israelite  Rabbi 
challenged him saying, ‘Rabbi, it is the Sabbath.’ 
Continuing to heal, Joshua replied, ‘My dear Rabbi, I know it is the Sabbath. I have just come 
from the temple where I have worshipped my Father Alaha, giving Him my love and gratitude. You 
were not there. Why will you not enter an Essene holy place? Is not Alaha there also? At this moment 
my Father is working in your bodies to keep them healthy. If you have a wound, will Alaha not heal 
it because it is the Sabbath? I do as my Father does. My Father heals unceasingly.’ 
Caressing  their  heads  and  hands  most  lovingly  and  taking  the children  in  his  arms,  he healed 
them all, saying, ‘Your sins are forgiven.’ The two Israelite Rabbis left, embittered and furious. 
 
These monthly trips by Joshua to Yerushalayim brought Ephraim, the other Rayis Rabbis and Rabbis 
great happiness. 
The day after Joshua with the two Yiacoubs, Yiohannan and an Essene Rabbi had returned to 
K’far  Nahum,  Myriam  Shalome  sent  an  anxious  request  to  Aethra,  asking  if  Naomi  might come  to 
K’far Nahum for a month. Myriam Shalome had promised a large order of silk and linen cloth to an 
Israelite  merchant  in  a  month’s time.  In  order  to  meet  this  obligation,  she would  have  to  keep  her 
three looms working ten hours a day, and one of her weavers, a young girl, had fallen ill with a high 
fever. Aethra and Naomi loved Myriam Shalome, and Naomi was an excellent weaver, and so it was 
decided that Naomi would go. 
Ephraim  suggested  that  Yiassounai  might  accompany  his  aunt  to K’far  Nahum.  It  was  the 
month  of Tammuz (July),  and  the  schools  were  closed,  and  Stephanos—who  knew  how  much it 
would mean to Yiassounai to be near his beloved Joshua and Yiohannan for a month—was pleased to 
take  on  all  the  novices’ duties,  as  much as  he  would  miss  his  novice-brother.  As  an Essene  novice, 
Yiassounai could stay in the house of the Rayis Rabbi Samuel in K’far Nahum, performing the duties 
of a novice in the temple. 
 
  

74 
 
Early  the  next  morning  Ivikos  and  Aethra  arrived  at  the  temple  quarters  with  Naomi. 
Stephanos, embracing Yiassounai and kissing him, could not hide the tears on his cheeks, which he 
brushed away with the wide sleeve of his white novice robe. Aethra and Ivikos embraced and kissed 
Yiassounai  too,  while  Naomi  kissed  the  right  hand  of  Ephraim  with  great respect.  Ephraim  bid  the 
travelers  farewell.  He  had  provided  them  a  cart  belonging  to  the  See, filled  with  provisions  for  the 
See in K’far Nahum. 
In K’far Nahum Naomi stayed in the house of Shabbatai and Myriam Shalome, and Yiassounai 
had quarters in the house of the Rayis Rabbi Samuel, which was only a few  yards away. The house 
where Joshua the God-man was living stood between the house of Shabbatai and the See quarters. 
After the morning service the next day,  which Samuel conducted with Yiassounai reciting the 
prayers,  Yiassounai  followed  Joshua  to  the  quay,  a  few  yards  from  the  temple.  Joshua  went there 
every morning while in K’far Nahum. A crowd gathered on either side of the dock, and spread over 
it.  A  small  fishing  boat  belonging  to  Shabbatai  was  tied  up  to  the  dock.  Shabbatai, Yiacoub  and 
Yiohannan were mending nets on the boat. A few yards away another boat was secured, belonging to 
Simon Petros and his younger brother Andreas, who were partners of Shabbatai and Yiacoub. 
Andreas  was  sleeping  on  board  while  Petros  was  mending  nets.  Yiacoub  shouted  at Andreas 
waking him. Joshua and Yiassounai boarded Shabbatai’s little ship and Joshua preached from there to 
the  crowds  around  them,  repeating  the  parable  of  the  Sower  (Matthew  13:1-9,18-23,  Mark  4:3-9  & 
Luke  8:5-8).  Then  Joshua,  Yiacoub,  Yiohannan  and  Yiassounai  came ashore  and  Joshua  healed 
completely more than two hundred sufferers; men, women and children. 
  

75 
 
CHAPTER FOURTEEN  Joshua Teaches and Heals in K’far Nahum 
[THE BEATITUDES. JOSHUA SETS FIRE TO THE EARTH; FAMILIES DIVIDE OVER THE GOD-MAN’s TEACHINGS.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your Soul, with all your strength, 
and with all your Mind. You shall love all human beings as yourself, (cf. Luke 10:27) 
 
It  was  a  Sabbath  in Tammuz (July).  The  Essene  temple  in K’far  Nahum  was  very  crowded. 
Yiassounai said the prayers in Greek while Joshua and the Rayis Rabbi Samuel prayed silently in the 
Holy  of  Holies,  giving  thanks  to Alaha.  Samuel,  with  his  nephew  Is-shaak  burned  incense, and 
Joshua went to the pulpit and, stretching his hands to the congregation, said: 
‘The Kingdom of the Heavens is in your Ego-Spirit-Soul-Being. The Kingdom of the Heavens 
is  in  your  personality  too,  if  you  attune  your  life  to Alaha.  Your  heart  is  the  gate  leading  to  the 
Kingdom  of  the  Heavens  and  the  golden  keys  opening  this  gate  are  love  to Alaha and love  to 
mankind. Both keys are required to open the gate of the Heavens. Your material bodies are temples of 
Alaha,  of  your  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Being. Alaha is  in  you. Alaha is  Omnipresent. Make  your  heart 
Alaha’s Holy of Holies.’ 
‘In the bodies of every one of you and especially in your material bodies, the temples of Alaha, 
the  Holy  Archangels,  using  the  Mind-elements,  are  giving  you  strength  and  good  health. They  are 
closing wounds and mending broken bones. To call another human being an enemy is to call Alaha in 
him and the Holy Archangels working unceasingly in him, your enemies.’ 
Joshua then continued in Greek. 
 
But I say to you who hear: ‘Love those who call 
themselves your enemies. Do good to those who 
hate  you.  Bless those  who  curse  you  and  pray 
for  those  who  spitefully  use  you.’ (cf. Luke 
6:27-28) 
  

76 
 
And seeing Israelites in the congregation, he said in Aramaic: Ahebu labuheldbabaykhun (Love 
your enemies). 
In the courtyard a crowd of more than two hundred had gathered: the sick with their families, 
making  much  noise.  There  were  a  few  Essenes,  many  Israelites,  and  four  Bedouin  women. The 
novices  Is-shaak  and  Yiassounai,  went  out  to  help  them,  especially  those  who  lay  on  the ground 
moaning. 
Joshua  accompanied  by  Samuel, two  other  Rayis  Rabbis,  two  Rabbis,  and  some  Israelites of 
K’far  Nahum  (who  were  curious  to  see  the  healing)  came  into  the  courtyard.  Some  of Joshua’s 
disciples  living  in K’far  Nahum,  who  had  been  trained  to  heal,  helped  the  novices  to support  those 
who asked to approach Joshua. To them all Joshua gave his love and blessing, and smiling with great 
kindness and touching them, he healed every one, giving each health, hope and joy. 
The Rabbis, the Rayis Rabbis and Samuel went to Samuel’s house for breakfast, which Isshaak 
had run ahead to prepare. Joshua went as usual to the wooden dock some two hundred yards from the 
temple.  Yiassounai,  looking  up  at Joshua,  with  adoration  asked  his  permission to  go  with  him. ‘My 
dear boy,’ Joshua said, ‘aren't you hungry? Don't you want to have breakfast with the others?’ 
‘Beloved Rabbi,’ Yiassounai answered, ‘did you not say that you are the Bread of Life?’ 
Joshua  embraced  the  boy  and  kissed  him  saying, ‘You  uneasy,  beloved  Soul.  You  want  to  be 
with me? Don't you know I will be with you and in you always? My Way, the Way of Truth and of 
Life, is very hard for a human being, but for a Soul...’ and Joshua paused, then continued, ‘Follow the 
way suited to your nature.’ 
Soon,  as  always,  a  multitude  surrounded  the  quay;  some  to  hear  Joshua  preach;  and  some to 
bring  loved  ones  for  healing.  With  Yiassounai  helping,  they  came  to  Joshua.  And  he  healed every 
one. 
Many  followed  Joshua  and  Yiassounai  onto  the  quay  as  they  boarded  Shabbatai’s boat where 
Shabbatai, Yiacoub and Yiohannan were at work. From the deck Joshua in a voice sweet and strong 
enough to be heard by all, gave them the parable of the good shepherd... 
Take heed that you do not despise one of these little ones amongst you, for I say to you that in 
Heaven  their  Angels always  see  the  face  of  my  Father  who  is  in  Heaven.  For  the  Son  of  Man has 
come to save that which was lost. What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them 
goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine in the fold and go to the mountains to seek the one that 
is  straying?  And  if  he  should  find  it,  assuredly,  I  say  to  you,  he  rejoices  more  over  that sheep  than 
over the ninety-nine that did not go astray. Even so it is not the will of your Father who is in Heaven 
that one of these little ones should perish, (cf. Matthew 18:10-14) 
In  the  crowd  some  Israelites  were  causing  a  disturbance,  quarreling  and  shouting. Although 
there  weren’t  many  Israelites  in K’far  Nahum—most  were  poor  and  illiterate—they still  thought 
themselves  superior  to  the  Essenes  and  treated  them  rudely,  like  servants.  By  then the  crowd  had 
swelled to over six hundred, with more and more arriving. 
Samuel  and  the  Rayis  Rabbis  came  with  Is-shaak  from  breakfast  to  find  Joshua.  Is-shaak, a 
gentle soul, knew Yiassounai must be hungry and brought him a loaf of bread, some cheese and two 
hard-boiled eggs, for which Yiassounai thanked him gratefully. 
Joshua continued to preach in both Greek and Aramaic, giving the Parable of the growing seed: 
To  what  shall  we  liken  the  Kingdom  of  God?  Or with  what  parable  shall  we  picture  it? The 
Kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground, and should sleep by night and rise 
by  day,  and  the  seed  should  sprout  and  grow,  he  himself  does  not  know  how.  For  the  earth  yields 
crops  by  itself, first  the  stalk,  then  the  ear,  after  that  the  full  corn  in  the  ear.  But  when  the  grain 
ripens, immediately he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come. (Mark 4:30, 26-29) 
 
  

77 
 
While he spoke, an old woman, pushing and shoving people aside, found her daughter-in-law, 
whom Joshua had cured once of epilepsy, in the crowd and screamed at her hysterically. ‘You insane 
woman!  How  dare  you  come  here,  leaving  me  to  mind  your  two  small  children? Here?  To  this 
accursed  Essene,  this  stupid  dreamer  who  babbles  nonsense?  I  am  not  obliged  to take  care  of  your 
children!’ The woman’s husband, searching for his family, joined the melee, shouting furiously at his 
wife and mother. But then the woman’s brother, who had been cured by Joshua of a paralysis that had 
afflicted him for eight years, intervened to protect his sister from her husband, who was a brutal man 
and often beat her. The appearance of his brother-in-law calmed the man down, for he worked in the 
business owned by his father-in-law and brother-in-law.  
The brother said to his sister’s mother-in-law, ‘You old bitch. My sister allowed her husband to 
bring you to her house, and ever since the fool has been beating her. Enough! No more! Both of you 
will leave my sister’s house. My mother will look after her now and her children!’ 
And some yards away there was another commotion. An Israelite grocer found his sixteen year-
old  stepson  listening  intently  to  Joshua.  The  man  was  furious  and  grabbed  the  boy,  slapping  and 
kicking him, shouting, ‘You lazy  dog,  you closed the shop while  I was  gone and came here to hear 
this nonsense, this silly fool calling himself “Son of God!”’ 
The  boy  answered  him  calmly  saying, ‘Look  here,  you  brute.  I've  had  enough.  I  work  like a 
slave for you, and you beat me and starve me. This Rabbi you call a “silly fool” has cured my father’s 
brother of leprosy. My uncle is healthy and working again, and I will go to live with him. Forget me!’ 
And the bully stalked off, muttering and cursing. 
On  the  other  side  of  the  quay  an  Israelite  Rabbi  was  shouting  at  his  eighteen-year-old  son: 
‘How is it, fool, that you are here again? Is it true you have told your mother that you mean to leave 
us  and follow  this  damned  Essene  heretic  who  rejects  the  Law  of  Moses?  You  are  soft  in the  head. 
Don't you know we are Israelites, and not Essene heretics? Your mother tells me you plan to become 
a  healer.  What  this  cursed  sorcerer  is  offering  you  is  a  snare  of  the  demons.  He heals  the  bodies  of 
those who are by God’s will stricken, so he can take their Souls to his hell. And to trick the gullible 
this blasphemous demon calls himself the Beni Alaha. For him you are willing to lose your home and 
your faith? I promise you, boy, if you go with him, I will, with my own hands, kill you both.’ 
And  there  were  other  contentions and  quarrels  among  the  gathering  making  it  difficult  for 
Joshua to teach. When the crowd had quieted, the God-man said in Greek and Aramaic: 
 
 
Blessed are the poor in evil thoughts: for 
theirs is the Kingdom of the Heavens. 
 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are those who mourn: for they shall 
be comforted. 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit 
the Earth. 
 
  

78 
 
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst 
after righteousness: for they shall be filled. 
 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall 
obtain mercy. 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see 
God. 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall see 
be called Sons of God. 
 
 
Blessed are those who are persecuted for  
righteousness sake: for theirs is the Kingdom 
of Heaven. 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are you when they revile and persecute 
you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely 
for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad: 
for great is your reward in Heaven: for so they 
persecuted the prophets who were before you. 
(Matthew 5:13-12) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

79 
 
Joshua gave these Beatitudes on many occasions, in Greek and Aramaic, to his disciple-healers 
in  the  Essene  temple  in  Yerushalayim;  in  Aramaic  in  Israelite  synagogues;  to  the  multitude  at  the 
feast in Bethsaida; and in many other places. 
Teaching  his  disciple-healers  in  the  synagogue  in K’far  Nahum  that  afternoon,  Joshua, 
reflecting on the day, said bitterly: 
I came to send fire on the Earth, and how I wish it were already kindled. But I have a baptism 
to  be  baptized  with,  and  how  distressed  I  am  till  it  is  accomplished.  Do you  suppose  that  I came to 
give peace on Earth? I tell you, not at all, but rather division. For from now on, five in the house will 
be  divided:  three  against  two  and  two  against  three.  Father  will  be  divided  against son and  son 
against  father,  mother  against  daughter  and  daughter  against  mother,  mother-in-law against  her 
daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. (Luke 12:49-53) 
  
 
 
 
 
  

80 
 
CHAPTER FIFTEEN  A Kidnapping and a Wedding 
[JOSHUA SEES TROUBLE OCCUR AT A DISTANCE. 
THE GOD-MAN RETURNS A SHEEP, A MAN NAMED AKHIEZER, TO THE FOLD. 
THE HEALING OF THE INNKEEPER BARRUKH] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. (Luke 19:10) 
 
I am the good shepherd; and I know my sheep, and I am known by my own. As the Father knows me, 
even so I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep. (John 10:14-15) 
 
One afternoon, at the service of worship and thanksgiving in the temple, Joshua, extending his 
Self-consciousness, saw an event happening in  Korazin five miles north of K’far  Nahum. As the El 
Shaddai, Joshua could know in an instant everything about everyone involved in the event. When the 
service was over, he asked Samuel to give him the use of one of the carts belonging to the See for the 
whole of the next day. Joshua had to find a sheep which was lost and return it to the fold. 
The  cart  was  brought  to  him  before  sunrise.  Joshua  asked  Yiacoub  to  drive  and  Petros  and 
Yiohannan to go with them. 
Akhiezer, an Israelite carpenter from Tyre and a widower of forty-three, had traveled from Tyre 
to  Korazin  with  Jonathan,  the  nephew  of  his  late  wife,  and  his  son,  Khur,  seventeen. Akhiezer  was 
driving  a  two-wheeled  cart  and  Jonathan  and  Khur  were  riding  on  their  horses.  He had  come  to 
collect money owed to him by two debtors.  He meant to use force if necessary. Before the death of 
his  wife,  Ruth,  Akhiezer  had  been a  good-hearted  man and  a  successful  carpenter. Jonathan,  whose 
mother, the sister of Ruth, had died when he was ten, was an apprentice in the shop. Akhiezer had a 
large house with a beautiful garden, and a beloved wife and son. But Ruth had died when Khur was 
ten,  and Jonathan  fifteen.  After  the  death  of  his wife,  Akhiezer  became  nervous,  irritable, and  often 
violent, though never towards  Khur and Jonathan. This decent man turned cruel and unjust. He was 
lazy, a drunkard and a gambler, and he frequented houses of ill repute, where he was quarrelsome and 
vicious. In his despair he would blaspheme Alaha. 
In Tyre, a Greco-Roman had approached Akhiezer with a strange request. His four year old son 
had  died,  and  his  wife  was  barren  and  beside  herself  with  grief.  She  raved  that  her  child had  been 
kidnapped  and  implored  her  husband  to  find  him.  Her  husband,  fearing  that  she  was going  mad, 
begged his friend Akhiezer to find and buy a slave boy to replace his lost son.  
In Korazin, Akhiezer saw a child playing at the gate of a vegetable garden, who bore a striking 
resemblance to his friend’s son. The boy was Benjamin, son of Rakhel, a young Israelite widow who 
worked  in  the  garden  of  a  man  of  Korazin.  The  boy  and  his  mother  lived  there  in a little  one-room 
hut. 

81 
 
 
It was the kidnapping of  Benjamin and the events that followed it that Joshua had seen in the 
Essene temple five miles away in K’far Nahum. 
As the cart bringing Joshua, Yiacoub, Petros and Yiohannan approached Korazin, it came to a 
lane a mile from the town, a dead-end leading to some rocky caves hidden in thick cover of trees and 
brush. A young man rode out of the lane on a horse and called to them anxiously, ‘Rabbi, the way to 
Korazin is straight ahead. This is only a lane for woodcutters and goes nowhere.’  
Joshua said to him,  ‘Jonathan, two hundred yards from here, under those plane trees Akhiezer 
and  Benjamin  wait  for  you  in  a  cave  and  your  cousin,  Khur,  lies  unconscious  on  a woolen  blanket, 
gravely wounded. Akhiezer sent you to find a practitioner for Khur, but it’s no use Jonathan, for Khur 
is dying. Now we are going to Akhiezer. Come with us. We need you.’ 
Then  Joshua  recounted the  story  of  what  had  happened  to  Khur: ‘Yesterday  after dark  as you 
were  riding  away  from  Korazin,  a  hundred  yards  from  the cave,  a  snake  creeping out  of  the bushes 
frightened  Khur’s horse,  and  Khur  was  thrown.  His  head  struck  a  rock;  his  ribs  and  his right 
thighbone were broken.’ 
Jonathan’s mouth fell open and he stared at Joshua awe-struck. ‘Rabbi,’ he said, ‘How do you 
know  my  name?  How  can  you  know  of  Akhiezer  and  Khur,  who  are  strangers  here?  And  how can 
you know what happened here last night?’ 
Joshua didn’t answer but came down from the cart with Yiohannan, asking Yiacoub and Petros 
to go on to the first inn on the road to Korazin and wait for them there. When the cart was gone, he 
said, ‘Dear Jonathan, come with us. We need you.’ Jonathan dismounted and followed them. 
Under  a  plane  tree  at  the  mouth  of  a  cave,  Khur  lay  unconscious  on  a  thick,  yellow  blanket, 
soaked with his blood. The hair on the right side of his head was stiff with dried blood from a deep 
wound.  His right cheek was badly bruised and cut, and his lips were swollen. Two ribs on his right 
side and his thighbone were broken. Akhiezer had spent the long night at the boy’s side as he moaned 
and cried out with pain. At dawn Khur had fallen into a coma. Benjamin spent the night in the cave 
with Jonathan, but he did not sleep. He wept and wept, calling for his mother, which only deepened 
Akhiezer’s despair. 
Joshua  approached  and  put  his  right  hand  on  the  shoulder  of  Akhiezer  saying, ‘Beloved 
Akhiezer, shalom.  Dearest  one,  why  have  you  forgotten  your  Father Alaha? You were  a  good man, 
and Alaha had  provided  for  you  everything  you  needed.  When Alaha took  Ruth,  your  wife, you 
changed  and  you  forgot Alaha, but Alaha has  not  forgotten  you.  You  have  sinned  greatly, 
transgressing Alaha’s Will. Why? Akhiezer, why?’ 
Sobbing in his despair, Akhiezer said, ‘Merciless Rabbi, Khur, my only son, lies dying. I know 
I am a wretched sinner. But is this the time for you to open my wounds? Have pity! I have no more 
tears to shed and my pain is unbearable. Alaha hates me.’ 
Joshua embraced the man saying, ‘Beloved one, Alaha loves you. I know how great your pain 
is.  It  is  my  pain  too.  For  you  and  I,  in  my El  Shaddai Selfhood,  are  one. Akhiezer,  dear  one, your 
tears have washed the sins from you, and I have come to give you your son, Khur, whole and strong 
and  healthy.  You,  in  return,  will  give  me  and Alaha the  gift  of  Khur,  Jonathan  and yourself;  not  as 
three criminals, but now as three Alaha-loving men and, if you wish, three good carpenters.’ 
Joshua asked Jonathan, who was staring at him with a mixture of awe and terror, to bring him 
some strips of clean cloth and a bucket of fresh water from the spring near the plane tree.  
Joshua knelt at Khur’s side, and praying to Alaha, he washed away the dried blood I from the 
boy’s head  with  the  soft  linen.  The  wounds  cleaned,  the  bones  mended,  he  took  the  right hand  of 
Khur and said, ‘Khur, wake up, my child.’ 
Khur opened his eyes and looked into Joshua’s, smiling. Joshua said to him, ‘Dear one, get up. 
Take this piece of cloth and go to your father. Wipe his tears away.’ 

82 
 
He looked upon Akhiezer with love and said, ‘Dear Akhiezer, embrace your son and kiss him. 
He is yours again. Enjoy this happy moment and thank the most Merciful Alaha, our Heavenly Father 
who loves us.’ 
Benjamin woke from a troubled sleep, weeping and calling for his mother. Yiohannan carried 
the child out of the cave, smiling and playing with him. Two hours later, Akhiezer asked Jonathan to 
harness  the  horse  to  the  cart,  saying  to  Joshua, ‘Reverend  young  Rabbi,  you  want me  to  return 
Benjamin to his mother. But believing Khur was dying, I thought to keep the boy as my son. Isn't he 
in need of a father?' 
But Joshua interrupted, ‘And what of his mother, Akhiezer? You have cast his mother, Rakhel, 
into deep despair. Benjamin is her only joy in life.’ 
Akhiezer said, ‘Do you know this woman? This Rakhel?’ 
‘Of  course  I  know  her,  my  dear,’ Joshua  said, ‘though  I've  never  seen  her  with  my  material 
eyes. Rakhel also is in my El Shaddai Selfhood. I can see her now though she is far from here. She is 
a very beautiful young woman. I know you cannot understand, Akhiezer, what I am telling you. But 
the material eyes are not the only eyes for seeing.’ 
Jonathan looked at Joshua stupefied. ‘Rabbi,’ he said, ‘who are you? You told me no one could 
save  Khur,  but  Khur  lives,  and  is  healthy  and  strong.  There is  no  trace  of  his  terrible wounds.  Who 
are you?’ 
‘Dear one,’ said Joshua, ‘it is enough to know that I am one who loves you deeply.’ Yiohannan 
whispered in Jonathan’s ear, ‘Jonathan, Joshua isn’t simply a man like you. He is the Beni Alaha. Do 
you  understand?’ But  Jonathan  could  not  understand.  He  was  only  more confused  and frightened. 
When the cart was ready, Akhiezer told Khur to climb on with Benjamin. Khur held the child in his 
arms,  while  Akhiezer  sat in  front  of  them,  with Jonathan  on  foot,  holding  the  reins, and Joshua and 
Yiohannan on horseback following. In less than an hour they came to the gate of the vegetable garden 
where Rakhel lived. She was in the hut weeping piteously. 
Joshua,  with  Benjamin  in  his  arms,  opened  the  gate  and  called  her.  The mother  still  weeping, 
but now for joy, took the boy from him and holding him to her heart she covered him with kisses.  
As Rakhel carried Benjamin into the hut, Joshua turned to Akhiezer. ‘My dear Akhiezer,’ said 
the  God-man  smiling, ‘you  are  right.  Benjamin  needs  a  father  and  Rakhel  needs  a  husband and  a 
father  for  her son.  And  you,  my  dear  Akhiezer,  need  a  wife.  Those  houses  of  ill  repute  are not  for 
you. Rakhel is a beautiful woman, honest and good. She will do your house honor.’ Akhiezer smiled 
down on Khur. ‘You are right, beloved Rabbi. Let’s see what Khur says.’ 
Smiling  broadly  Khur  went  into  the  hut  and  returned  with  Benjamin  in  his  arms. ‘Reverend 
Rabbi,’ he said to Joshua, ‘Could you ask Rakhel for me if I might call her ‘Mother’? Tell her I love 
Benjamin as my brother and will love her truly as my mother. Benjamin needs a father and I need a 
mother.’ 
Joshua did as the boy asked, and in a few minutes the God-man returned with Rakhel. Joshua 
gave  her  right  hand  to  Akhiezer,  who  took  it  in  his  two  hands  saying, ‘Rakhel,  for  the grief  I  have 
given  you  this  night,  I will  repay  you  and  Benjamin  with  every  happiness  that  I  can offer  you.’ 
Akhiezer kissed her and asked Khur and Jonathan to kiss her too, as their mother.  
Then  Akhiezer  took  Benjamin in  his arms  saying, ‘Beloved  little  angel,  you  are  an  orphan no 
more. You are my son. I am your father. Khur and Jonathan are your brothers.’ 
And  so  Joshua  placing  one  hand  on  Rakhel’s head and  the  other  on  Akhiezer’s,  blessed them 
and  their  marriage.  He  kissed  them  all  lovingly  and,  with  Yiohannan  by  his  side,  he  left the  happy 
family. 
At the inn Petros and Yiacoub were waiting for them. The inn was no more than a small house 
and the other guests, poor workers. The innkeeper was a middle-aged man, who lived there with 
  

83 
 
his daughter. Ten years before his wife had left him after he had been lamed in an accident which left 
his left leg atrophied and an inch shorter than the right one. 
As Joshua and Yiohannan arrived at the door, the innkeeper shouted to his daughter to serve the 
guests,  while  he  was  searching  for  his  crutches.  But Joshua  went to  him  saying, ‘My dear  Barrukh, 
give  me  your  hand.  You  have  no  more  need  of  crutches.’ And  taking  his  right hand  Joshua  said  to 
him, ‘Barrukh,  rise.  You  can  walk  now.  Help  your  daughter  serve  your guests.’ The  man  stood, 
astonished,  frightened  but  overjoyed.  His  legs  were  both  healthy  and strong  again,  and  equal  in 
length. He could walk again; he could jump; he could dance. He helped his daughter serve the frugal 
meal  that  the  humble  inn  offered:  olives  and  cheese, some  hard-boiled  eggs,  vegetables  and  bread. 
Joshua  asked  Yiacoub  to  pay  for  the  meal. Barrukh  was  insistent  that  they  owed  him  nothing,  but 
Yiacoub left the money on the table as they departed. 
On the journey back to K’far Nahum, Petros and Yiacoub asked Joshua to tell them what had 
happened in Korazin and Joshua said, ‘Do you remember the parable I gave some days ago of the lost 
sheep?  If  a  man  has  a  hundred  sheep  and  one  of  them  goes  astray,  does  he  not  leave the  obedient 
ninety-nine in the fold and go into the mountains to seek the one that has strayed? And when he finds 
it  and  brings  it  back  to  the  fold,  does  he  not  rejoice  more  over  the  one  sheep found  than  over  the 
ninety-nine that did not go astray? Yiohannan will explain to you what we have done.’ 
An  hour  before  sunset,  the travelers  arrived  in K’far  Nahum.  They  went  to  the  temple, where 
Joshua thanked Alaha for His boundless Mercy and Love to all mankind.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

84 
 
CHAPTER SIXTEEN  The Ministry Continues 
[THE SANHEDRIN SENDS SPIES TO INFORM ON JOSHUA.  JUDAS PLOTS. 
JOSHUA REFUSES A CROWN.  MULTIPLIES LOAVES AND FISHES. 
HE COMES TO HIS DISCIPLES ON THE SEA.  YIOUSSOUF PASSES OVER.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall he 
called the children of God. (Matthew 5:9) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joshua healed hundreds daily, giving to all his love and restoring them to health. Among them were 
the  rich  and  the  poor:  Israelites,  Essenes,  Greeks,  Bedouins,  Romans  and  others.  In  his Divine El 
Shaddai Selfhood  all  human  beings  are.  There  was  no  time  of  the  day,  or  the  night, or  of the  week 
that he would not heal. He cleansed lepers, gave the blind sight and made the lame to walk. At times 
he recalled departing Souls to return to their ‘dead’ material bodies. All over Palestine, as well as in 
neighboring countries, people heard of the wonders he performed.  
But  to  the  Israelite  Rayis  Rabbis,  the  Rabbis  and  the  Sanhedrin  the  reports  of  these  miracles 
brought  grave  misgivings  for  three  reasons.  Firstly,  the  man  was  an  Essene,  and  the Sanhedrin 
considered  the  Essenes  to  be  heretics.  Secondly,  there  were  large  numbers  of Israelites  among  the 
followers  of  Joshua.  And  finally,  the  Sanhedrin,  which  had  organized  a  violent  underground 
movement of Zealots to expel the Romans from Palestine, saw Joshua’s ministry of Peace and Love 
as a serious threat. For didn’t he reject the Mosaic Law of ‘an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth,’ 
teaching  instead, ‘to  the  one  who  slaps  you  on  your  right cheek,  turn  the  other  to  him  also’? The 
Sanhedrin sent spies to Judea to follow Joshua and to inform on him. 
In  Yerushalayim  Joshua  reorganized  the  group  of  healer-disciples,  which  included  many 
Israelites.  Three  hundred  young  Israelites  and  Essenes  came  to  Joshua’s teachings  on  healing. 
Yiacoub  was  designated  to  train  them  to  use  Self-consciously  the  Mind  etheric  Vitality  in  their 
body’s etheric double. Instruction was given four days every month, with daily exercises teaching the 
proper use of Mind Supersubstance and etheric Vitality in healing and health. 
Although  many  Israelites  became  good  healers,  fearing  excommunication  by  the Sanhedrin, 
they distanced themselves from the Essene communities as they continued to heal in Joshua’s name. 
One  of  the  group  of  seventy  healer-disciples,  Yiohannan  the  Canaanite,  came to Joshua  saying, 
‘Rabbi, many Israelites are healing using your name. Shall we stop them?’ 
  

85 
 
Joshua said to him, ‘Yiohannan, to those who are healing, we must give our blessing and help. 
Those who are not against us, are ours. Love them and help them in their works of mercy.’ 
Then  Yiohannan  answered and  said, ‘Master,  we  saw  someone  casting  out  demons  in  your 
name  and  we  forbade  him  because  he  does  not  follow  with  us.’ And  Joshua  said  to  him, ‘Do  not 
forbid him, for he who is not against us is for us.’ (Luke 9:49-50) 
Among the twelve chosen by Joshua to be his companion-disciples was one named Judas. The 
father of Judas was a wealthy  Israelite and a member of the nobility, and with his  wellborn wife he 
had two daughters and one son—who had died. After his wife’s death, the widower fell in love with 
her maidservant, a very beautiful Essene girl, who gave birth to Judas. 
When  Judas  was  a  boy,  the  vast  amount  of  his  father’s wealth  lay  in  the  hands  of  Judas’ 
married half-sisters. By the time Judas reached twenty-two years of age, his father was reduced to an 
alcoholic, penniless man, having lost his fortune in chariot races in Antioch. 
The father took shelter in the home of his  youngest daughter. Young Judas was left homeless. 
He and his mother moved into the home of his mother’s elder brother. It was an Essene home headed 
by the brother, a sandal maker, father of three children, all living at home. 
Judas was a handsome young man, but he was very lazy. He was supported by a wealthy cousin 
of  his  father  named  Ruben,  a  middle-aged  bachelor,  who  enjoyed  Judas’ company.  Ruben worked 
very  hard  in  his  business  of  drying,  packing  and  exporting  fruit  such  as  dates,  figs,  and raisins.  He 
was also a leader of the Zealots, and much of his money went to buying weapons from the Bedouins; 
two-edged swords and daggers, which were used against Roman soldiers. 
Ruben  called  himself  a  disciple  of  Yiohannan  the  Baptist  and  to  please  his  benefactor, Judas 
went with him to the Jordan to hear Yiohannan preach. There Judas was baptized by the Rahib. Judas 
soon  became  a  follower  of Joshua,  in  part  because  he  had  witnessed  miraculous healings,  but  also 
because he wanted to please Ruben. 
When  Ruben’s spine  was  injured  in  an  accident,  he  lay  in  his  house  in  Yerushalayim  for four 
months  completely  paralyzed  until  one  day  Judas  brought  Joshua  to  him,  and  Joshua instantly  and 
completely healed him. This miracle planted an idea in Judas’ devious mind.  He approached Ruben 
with it. ‘Ruben,’ he said, ‘Joshua is the first cousin of Yiohannan the Baptist, whom Herod beheaded. 
Herod  is  a  pawn  of  the  Romans.  A  third  of  the  population  of  Palestine, the Essenes,  believe  that 
Joshua  is the  Messiah.  Joshua  has  healed  hundreds  of  Israelites,  and they and  their  families  adore 
him. Why, there are even Israelite Pharisees who follow him. The Sanhedrin will have to accept my 
plan. And you, after all, are a leader of the Zealots. Why it’s as good as done!’  
‘What  are  you  talking  about?’ asked  Ruben. ‘Every  clay  Joshua  is  healing  hundreds,’ said 
Judas urgently, ‘simply with a caress of his hand. Imagine what would happen if he lifted those hands 
against  the  Roman  soldiers.  He  could  slay  them  by  the  hundreds.  The  prophets  did  it, and  tell  me 
which  of  them  had  greater  powers  than  Joshua?  We  must  get  Herod  out of  the  way. I  know  how 
much you hate him.’ 
‘Exactly what are you proposing?’ asked Ruben. 
‘We will  crown Joshua  King  of  Israel,  and  we  will  use  his  powers  to  our  own  ends!’ Ruben 
applauded the idea and convinced five other influential Israelites of its merit. He ordered a crown to 
be  made  by  a  goldsmith  in  Yerushalayim, in  silver,  plated  with  gold,  and  a scepter  of  the  same 
precious  metals,  three  feet  long,  and  topped  with  a  gold  star.  And  he  had  a gown  tailored  in  royal 
purple. 
Early on  the  second day of  the feast  in  Bethsaida,  the  conspirators  arrived  with the Israelite 
Rayis  Rabbi  of  Magdala  to  crown  Joshua  King  of  Israel.  Joshua,  the  two  Yiacoubs, Yiohannan, 
Petros,  Andreas,  Philippos,  Yiassounai,  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel  and  the  Rayis  Rabbi Ezekiel  of 
Bethsaida were  in  the  courtyard  of  the  temple  after  the morning  services,  where more  than  two 

86 
 
hundred seeking healing had gathered. Some distance from Joshua, Judas, Ruben, the Israelite Rayis 
Rabbi, and the five Israelites supporting the plan watched and waited. 
When  the  lepers,  the  blind,  the  lame,  and  the  paralyzed  had  been  healed  and  had  departed, 
Judas  and his  cohorts  approached  Joshua.  Judas  kissed  Joshua,  as  was  his  custom,  saying, ‘shalom 
Joshua, King of Israel!’ 
The Israelite Rayis Rabbi holding the crown in both hands said, ‘My Lord Joshua, son of King 
Davout, kneel, my Lord, that I may anoint you with holy oil and crown you King of Israel.’ 
Joshua pushed the crown away with his right hand saying, ‘Rayis Rabbi, I know what is in the 
minds of you all. You make a great mistake. I am a King. But in my Kingdom there is not one King 
with  many  subjects:  obedient  servants  and  dangerous  conspirators.  And  there  are  no wars  in  my 
Kingdom,  no  revolutions,  no  bloodshed.  In  my  Kingdom ALL are  Kings,  crowned  by our  Father  in 
Heaven with crowns of His Light and His Love.’ And so saying, Joshua vanished, dematerializing his 
body. 
The  Israelite  Rayis  Rabbi  handed  the  crown  to  Ruben  as  he  rubbed  his  eyes  in  astonishment 
saying, ‘What  happened  here?  Where  has  he  gone?  What did  he  say?  Did  you  understand him, 
Ruben? I could make no sense of it.’ 
Ruben shook his head helplessly saying, ‘Neither could I.’ 
The  Rayis  Rabbis,  the  two  Yiacoubs,  Yiohannan,  Petros,  Andreas,  Yiassounai,  and Philippos 
returned to the temple silently, where they found Joshua re-materialized near the golden curtain of the 
Holy of Holies. They went to him, and Joshua explained what the Israelites intended, saying... 
 
 
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be 
called the Sons of God. (Matthew 5:8) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ruben, Judas, the Israelite Rayis Rabbi from Magdala, and three of the five Israelites, who had 
come with Ruben, greatly disappointed by what had happened, went to the home of an Israelite friend 
of Ruben’s, a supplier of grapes for raisins.  
Judas was furious. He struck the fist of his right hand against the palm of his left savagely and 
repeatedly and shouted, ‘What do you want more than to be the King of Israel? Mad dreamer. Essene 
fanatic—“crown  of  Light  and  Love  of Alaha?”—You  stupid  fellow!  The  saw  and plane  of  the 
carpenter suit you better than a scepter and crown. You won’t get away with this. I will force you to 
accept the crown, even though  you don’t deserve it; and I will be the strong man, the leader behind 
the  throne. Those  stupid  Essene  disciples  of  yours  with  their Essene education—they  are  fit  only  to 
be fishermen or farmers. All of them, gazing up at you so adoringly! But no, Joshua, I was not born 
to serve. I was born to order and to rule!  
‘Ruben,’ Judas  continued, ‘I  know  Joshua  loves  me  and  he  will  listen  to  me.  It’s me, 
Yiohannan  and  Philippos  he  loves.  He’s always  kissing  us,  embracing  us.  Though  I've  given  him 
plenty of reason to be sorry and angry, he’s never turned on me, but seems to love me all the more for 
that. Kissing my eyes and caressing my head, he repeats one of his Tubveyhuns (blessings). All I ever 
need to do is to kiss him and lay my head on his chest. He would do anything for me. And I will force 
him to be King of Israel so we can live in the Palaces in Jerikho and Yerushalayim, so we can expel 
and punish that wicked King  Herod,  so  we can force the Romans out of Palestine and rule our own 

87 
 
nation, powerful and independent! Joshua can do all that and I will force him to do it.’ Ruben, Judas 
and  the  Israelite Rayis  Rabbi  returned  in  the  cart  to Yerushalayim,  leaving the  Rayis  Rabbi  at 
Magdala. 
On  the  third  and  last  day  of  the  feast  and  the  fair,  Joshua  offered  the  morning  service  of 
worship and thanksgiving and healed more than one hundred in the temple courtyard. Then he called 
sixteen  of  his  healer-disciples—including  Petros,  the  two  Yiacoubs,  Philippos,  Andreas, Yiohannan 
and the novice Yiassounai—to come with him to the fair. Philippos, who lived in Bethsaida, loaded a 
cart with food. 
At  noon  they  arrived  at  the  fair,  which  was  held  in  a  place  one  mile  southeast  of  Bethsaida, 
south of the lagoon, north of the mountain, and east of the Sea of Galilee. 
The  great  crowd  of  fair-goers  had  consumed  everything  edible  by  the  second  day,  and  on the 
third  day  there  was  nothing  to  be  had.  People  were  milling  about  getting  ready  to  leave,  but seeing 
Joshua  many  decided  to  stay,  although  they  were  hungry  and  their  children  were  complaining  and 
crying. 
Joshua  stood  on  a  flat  rock  about  three  feet  high  and  looked  down  on  the  people  assembled; 
Israelites, Essenes, Greeks and Bedouins. Stretching his hands skyward, he said his worship prayer in 
Greek and Aramaic: 
 
 
 
Father, Holy Father God, who art in the Heavens and everywhere. Most Holy is your name. Your 
Kingdom comes. Your will is done on Earth as it is done in the Heavens. 
 
 
Petros  and  Philippos  came  to  Joshua  saying, ‘Rabbi,  these  people  are  hungry  and  exhausted, 
and they have to walk to Bethsaida, more than a mile from here.’  
Joshua said to Petros, ‘My dear Petros, we will feed them.’ 
‘We  will  feed them?  Rabbi,  what  are  you saying?  Do  you  know  how  much  money  we  would 
need  to  buy  food  for  all  these  people?  And  besides  where  would  we  find  food  to  buy?  We  have 
nothing  left.  We  have  eaten  all  we  brought.  That  big  basket  of  food  Philippos  provided  must  be 
almost empty.’ 
Joshua called to Yiacoub. ‘What’s left in the basket?’ he asked. 
‘Rabbi,’ Yiacoub answered, ‘the basket was full of loaves of bread, salted fish, figs and raisins, 
but all  that’s left  now  are  five  loaves  and  two  fishes  that  we  have  saved  for  you,  Yiohannan  and 
Yiassounai.’ 
Joshua called his disciples and said, ‘Tell everyone to sit on the  ground in  groups  of fifty and 
one hundred.’ Then he asked that the basket be brought to him. 
Yiohannan  and  Yiassounai  did  so  and  Joshua  said  to  Yiacoub, ‘Yiacoub,  my  dear,  break the 
loaves in half.’ Taking a fish in his left hand and half a loaf in his right, the God-man held his hands 
up to the Heavens saying: 

88 
 
 
Holy Father God—Give us this day our daily  
bread. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
He returned the bread and fish to the basket, took a deep breath and said to his disciples, ‘My 
dears, come take bread and fish and give to the people to eat. Let them have all they want.’ And for 
two  hours  and  twenty  minutes,  Joshua  the  God-man  materialized  Mind Supersubstance,  etheric 
Vitality,  into  bread  and  fish,  until  about  five  thousand  men,  and  thousands  of  women  and  children, 
had eaten and were filled. 
And  the  apostles,  when  they  had  returned,  told  him  all  that  they  had  done.  And  he  took them 
and  went  aside  privately  into  a  deserted  place  belonging  to  the city  of  Bethsaida.  But  when the 
multitudes knew it, they followed him and he received them and spoke to them about the Kingdom of 
God,  and  healed  those  who  needed  healing.  When  the  day  began  to  wear  away,  the disciples  came 
and said to him, ‘send the multitudes away that they may go into the surrounding towns and country, 
and  lodge  and  get  provisions,  for  we  are  in  a  deserted  place  here.’ But he  said  to  them, ‘You  give 
them something to eat.’ And they said, ‘We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we go 
and  buy  food  for  all  these  people.’ For  there  were  about  five thousand  men.  And  he  said  to  his 
disciples, ‘Make them sit down in groups of fifty.’ And they did so, and made them all sit down. Then 
he took the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to the Heaven, he blessed and broke them and 
gave  them  to  the  disciples  to  set  before  the  multitude.  So  they  all  ate  and  were  filled,  and  twelve 
baskets of the left over fragments were taken up by them. (Luke 9:10-17) 
As  the  crowds  were  leaving to  go  to  Bethsaida,  Joshua  said  to  his  healer-disciples, ‘My  dear 
ones,  go  with  them  and  help  them  with  the  children.  The  sun  has  set,  and  there  will  be  no moon 
tonight.’ 
Calling  his  companion-disciples  to  him,  Joshua  said  to  Yiacoub,  son  of  Shabbatai, ‘Dear 
Yiacoub,  the  Sea  of  Galilee  lies  west  of  here,  a  mile and  a  half.  Take  your  brothers  to  your  fishing 
boat, and sail for K’far Nahum. I want to be alone. Don’t wait for me. I go to that mountain to pray to 
Alaha and to thank him for his great Love for us.’ 
Philippos asked Yiacoub if he and his cousin Nathanael might go with them, and Yiacoub was 
delighted  to  take  them.  Petros  called  his  brother,  Andreas,  and  with  the  two  Yiacoubs, Philippos, 
Nathanael  and  three  others  went  westward  to  the  sea.  Yiohannan  took  Yiassounai’s left  hand  in  his 
and putting his right hand on the novice’s shoulder, said, ‘Yiassounai, let us go.’ 
They  were  all  very  tired.  The  night  was  warm  and  misty.  The  path  was  rocky  and  rough. As 
they  walked,  Petros  was  murmuring, ‘Did  we  hear him  right?  Did  he  say  he  wanted  to  be alone? 
Alone in such a night, on that forbidding mountain, with only the stars for light? Isn’t it dangerous for 
a man?’ 
Yiohannan said to him gently, ‘Petros, is Joshua only a man? You have said yourself that he is 
the Son of God. And did he not say, “I am the Light of the world”? He is the Light, Petros. What are 
you worrying about?’ 
Petros replied, ‘Joshua said we too are sons of God, but I wouldn't want to be all by myself on a 
rocky mountain on a night as black as this.’ 

89 
 
‘Petros,’ said  Yiohannan, ‘you  and  all  human  beings  are  man-Gods,  offspring  of Alaha. Only 
Joshua is a God-man. Petros, he is God. Didn't you see him yesterday dematerialize his body and re-
materialize it in the temple? Can you do that? There’s a great difference between a man-God and the 
God-man.’ 
Petros  looked  at  Yiohannan  doubtfully  and  continued  murmuring.  To  Petros  Yiohannan was 
only  a  young,  somewhat  delicate  young  man.  He  did  not  know  that  Yiohannan,  brother  of Yiacoub 
and  first  cousin  of  Joshua,  was  an  Archangel  of  the  Archangelic  Order  of  Principalities, as  was  his 
aunt,  Maria,  mother  of  Joshua.  They  had  both  been  humanized  and  incarnated  by immaculate 
conception  and  both  would,  one  day,  after  leaving  their  material  bodies,  dematerialize  them; 
Yiohannan, on the Greek island of Patmos and Maria, in Ephesus, even while Christian brothers and 
sisters were rubbing their corpses with fragrant oils for burial. 
When  the  disciples  reached  the  fishing  boat  of  Shabbatai,  they  took  off  their  sandals, which 
were dusty and wet with sweat, and washed them and their feet, and boarded the boat barefoot. 
It was pitch dark. Yiacoub went to the helm asking his partners, Petros and Andreas, to unfurl 
the  two  front  triangular  sails,  leaving  the  main  sail  tied  to the  mast.  That  done,  Petros lit  the  four 
lanterns as the ship sailed slowly towards K’far Nahum. The exhausted men lay down on the bags of 
net to rest; Petros still muttering in his bewilderment. Yiohannan, Philippos, Nathanael, and the two 
Yiacoubs  lay  near  the  helm.  Yiohannan  asked  Yiassounai  to come  near.  Yiassounai  rested  his  head 
on  Yiohannan’s chest,  who  cradled  it  with  his  right  hand, his  left  hand  holding  the  boy.  Philippos 
held the hand of Yiassounai. 
Both Philippos and Yiassounai could expand themselves Self-consciously out of their material 
bodies. Yiohannan had advised them to keep this secret from the others. He had said, ‘Be silent about 
it;  you  can  talk  about  it  to  each  other  and  to  me.  I  will  teach  you  to Superconsciously  expand  your 
Self-consciousness  to  many  places  and  worlds  of  other  dimensions at the same time.’ When they 
asked, ‘When?’ he answered, ‘Does it matter? I will be with both of you always.’ 
Philippos  looking  at  Yiohannan  with  great  love,  in  the  dim  light  of  the  lantern,  said  to him, 
‘You  are  Joshua’s first  cousin,  and  you  look  so  much  alike.  We  know  that  he,  our  Messiah,  is the 
Beni Alaha, but who are you, beloved one?’  
Yiohannan answered, ‘Dearest, though you see me here in a material body, eating and drinking 
with  you,  I too am a  Being differing from  you.  Later  you will understand. Not now.  I will say only 
that I have been humanized and incarnated to serve the Divine Plan and the Will of our Father. I am a 
ray  of  Self-conscious  Light.  Our  Most  Beloved  One,  Joshua,  is  the Light. He  is  the  Light  of  the 
Worlds.  You  cannot  understand  this  now.  Love  and  only  Love  will  teach you.  My  advice  to  you  is 
love, serve, and be silent. And now it is time to leave your material bodies and allow them to rest. I 
am here with you now. And I am also with him on the mountain, praying to Alaha... and elsewhere. 
This is the meaning of Self-Superconsciousness. Enough. Now sleep.’ 
Philippos  and  Yiassounai  woke  in  the  deep  of  that  black  night,  returning  to  their  material 
bodies, to see a ball of light on the far horizon. They said to Yiohannan, who was smiling at the light, 
‘Is our beloved Rabbi in that light?’ 
Yiohannan put his fingers to their lips saying, ‘Yes, dear ones. Be still.’  
Andreas woke, frightened by the ball of light, and shook Petros awake. Petros rubbed his eyes 
as  the  ball  approached  them,  becoming  a  pillar  of  very  bright  light.  Petros,  Andreas, Nathanael  and 
the two other disciples who were with them were terrified. Someone cried out, ‘It’s an evil spirit of 
the waters!’ 
And at once the pillar of light was only two yards from the little ship, and a human form could 
he  seen  surrounded  by  that  blinding  light.  The  light  rose  three  feet  above  the  head  and two  feet  all 
around  it.  Above,  around  the  head,  it  was  as  the  sun’s light,  becoming rosy  near  the heart,  brilliant 
sky-blue  around  the  solar  plexus,  and  emerald-green  at  the  legs.  The  boat  and the  waters  around  it 

90 
 
were  lit  as  if  it  were a  summer  day.  Gently  the  light  entered  the  materializing  body  of  Joshua,  who 
stood on the water of the Sea of Galilee smiling and saying, ‘It is I. Do not be afraid.’ 
Petros said, ‘Rabbi, if it is really you, command me to come to you on the water.’  
Joshua said, ‘Why command, Petros? If you want to come, come.’ And Petros, walking on the 
water, went to Joshua, who stood some three yards from the ship. 
But  then  as  Petros’ faith  wavered,  he  began  to  sink,  crying  out  to  the  God-man, ‘Rabbi,  my 
Lord, save me!’ Joshua stretched out his hand and caught him, saying, ‘Oh you of little faith, why do 
you doubt?’ And both came aboard the ship (cf. Matthew 14:22-31). 
Joshua went straight to Yiohannan, laying his hands on the heads of Yiohannan and Philippos. 
Yiassounai, lying on the deck, embraced the feet of his beloved Joshua, kissing his toes. Taking his 
right  hand  from  Yiohannan’s head,  Joshua  removed  the  novice’s cap  and  caressed  his  hair. 
Yiohannan  helped  the  boy  up,  and  Joshua  replacing  the  cap,  kissed  Yiassounai on  his  eyes. 
Yiassounai burst into tears without knowing why. 
At  dawn  the  boat  docked in K’far  Nahum.  Joshua,  the  two  Yiacoubs,  and  Yiohannan  went to 
the house of Yioussouf. Yiassounai went to the quiet temple to clean it. 
Yiossaphat, Simon, and Judas, the sons of Yioussouf, with their wives and children and Esther 
with her husband, Altai, had hurried to K’far Nahum, when Tamar and Maria had sent word to them 
that their father was dying. At Yioussouf’s bedside, Yiossaphat said to Joshua, ‘Yioussouf loves you 
best of us all. All night smiling in his sleep he was talking to you as if you were here.’ 
Joshua said, ‘Do  you love  your father more than I love him?  I was here, with him all through 
the  night,  and  I  will  be  with  him  when  you  think  he  is  dead and  you  will  begin  to  forget  him.  You 
cannot understand what I tell you, but  Yioussouf now must rest, happy in Alaha. For me Yioussouf 
will not die. Only his material body will die. Not Yioussouf. Alaha, God, is not an Alaha of the dead, 
but he is Alaha of the Living Spirit-Soul immortal Beings.’ 
At  noon  Yioussouf,  smiling,  passed  over  to  the  world  of  the  four  dimensions.  Joshua  asked 
Yiossaphat  to  close  his  father’s eyes,  asking  them  all  to  send  their  love  and  kind  thoughts  to 
Yioussouf  and  their  prayers  to Alaha.  Yiossaphat  wished  to  bury  his  father  beside  Yioussouf’s 
parents, so the next day they all traveled to Nazareth. 
Yiossaphat  could  not  understand  why  Maria,  Yiacoub,  and  Joshua  were  not  weeping  and 
seemed not to grieve for the old man’s passing, for he knew how well they all loved his father. But 
Joshua,  knowing  his  thoughts,  said, ‘Yiossaphat,  no  one’s Spirit-Soul  dies.  The  Ego-Spirit-Soul  is 
Life. Only the material body dies, and your father Yioussouf, is not that dead body in the coffin. You 
must keep him in your mind and heart, so that you can come in contact with him. Those departed can 
easily  contact  those  who  are “living”,  even  when  the  so-called  living can’t  feel  or  see  them.  Dear 
Yiossaphat, Yioussouf is more alive now than you are. He is more Self-conscious.’ 
Yiossaphat,  gazing  at  Joshua,  stroked  his  beard,  thinking, ‘Is  this  possible?  Can  what Joshua 
says be true? How can we be sure?’ 
 
  

91 
 
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN  In Thought, Word and Deed 
[YIOUSSOUF IS BURIED IN NAZARETH. 
JOSHUA GOES TO YERUSHALAYIM FOR A COUNCIL OF ESSENE RAYIS RABBIS. 
THE ESSENE COUNCIL CONSIDERS ITS RESPONSE TO VIOLENCE AGAINST THE COMMUNITY. 
JOSHUA COUNSELS THEM.  HE HEALS THE ILL AND INSTRUCTS HIS DISCIPLES.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heavenly Father, forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those who are transgressing against us. 
(cf. Matthew 6:12) 
 
An hour before sunrise the next day a four-wheeled cart drawn by two horses left for Nazareth 
bearing Yioussouf’s coffin. Yiossaphat drove with his brother Yiacoub at his side. To the right of the 
coffin Joshua, Maria, Tamar and Esther sat on low stools. To the left sat Altai, the husband of Esther, 
and Tamar’s husband Manasseh, with his two sons. Six four-wheeled carts followed. First was a cart 
belonging  to  the  See  of K’far  Nahum  with  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel,  who  was traveling  on  to 
Yerushalayim.  His  cart  was  driven  by  Yiacoub  with  his  father, Shabbatai,  at  his side  and  Myriam 
Shalome,  Yiohannan,  Yiassounai,  Naomi  and  Yioussouf’s grandchildren  seated behind  them.  The 
other carts were filled with relatives and friends. It was a journey of twenty-three miles and an hour 
after sunset Yioussouf’s coffin rested in the house in Nazareth that Yioussouf and Maria had given to 
Yiossaphat and his family.  
Through  the  night  Joshua,  Maria,  Yiossaphat,  Esther,  Tamar,  Yiacoub  and  the  other  sons of 
Yioussouf  kept  a  prayerful  vigil  by  the  coffin,  according  to  the  Essene  custom.  The  following 
morning  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel,  and  David,  the  Essene  Rabbi  of  Nazareth,  buried  the  mortal 
remains of Yioussouf in the yard of the Essene temple, two hundred yards from the house.  
The next day, which was the second day  of Ab (August), Tamar with her family, and Mvriam 
Shalome and Shabbatai returned to K’far Nahum. Esther, with Altai and their two sons, headed for  

92 
 
Cana.  Yiossaphat  asked  Maria  to  stay  with  his  family  in  Nazareth,  but  Samuel reminded  her  of  her 
duties in K’far Nahum; and they agreed that she would return to K’far Nahum in a month’s time. 
A  Council  of  Essene  Rayis  Rabbis  had  been  called  to  Yerushalayim  by  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim 
for the first week of August to consider some very grave matters concerning the Essene communities 
in Palestine. Samuel, the Rayis Rabbi of K’far Nahum, was second in order of Essene Rayis Rabbis, 
and Rayis Rabbi Ephraim had been for many  years beloved as a brother to him. On the third day of 
August,   Samuel,   Joshua,   Yiohannan,   the   two Yiacoubs,   Naomi   and   Yiassounai   set   out for 
Yerushalayim, more than sixty miles away, mostly mountain roads. 
Though  the  roads  were  passable  in  this  season,  they  were  very  steep  as  they  climbed  Mt. 
Gavaal to Sykhar in Samaria, and Mt. Gavazin to Ephraim, which is in Judea. There they were joined 
by Rayis Rabbi Naasson of the See of Ephraim. Yerushalayim lay another thirty miles beyond. They 
traveled both in the torrid heat of the day and by night. The moonlit nights of August were soft and 
cool and most agreeable.  
It was a journey of two days and two nights. An hour after sunrise on the third day the convoy 
of  carts  entered  the  gates  of  the  Essene  See,  which  Stephanos  had  opened,  eagerly expecting  their 
early  arrival.  The  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim, and  the  ten  other  Rayis  Rabbis  from Essene  Sees  scattered 
throughout Palestine, were praying in the temple to Alaha. Two more Rayis Rabbis were expected. 
Joshua, Samuel, Naasson, Yiohannan and Yiassounai went directly to the temple. Naomi went 
to the visitors’ room while the two Yiacoubs busied themselves with the several carts and horses. 
After  morning  worship  the  Rayis  Rabbis,  the  elders,  and  their  guests  were  invited  to  take 
breakfast  in  the  dining  rooms.  Among  the  guests  were  Ivikos  and  Aethra,  the  father  and  mother  of 
Yiassounai, who had come to meet Naomi. 
Yiassounai promised his father that when the assembly had adjourned, he would spend his two 
days leave each week with them. Ivikos promised to bring Yiassounai’s grandfather, Manasseh, to the 
See the following day for a visit. 
Yiassounai  then  went  to  Joshua’s rooms  to  see  that  everything  was  in  good  order.  There  he 
found  Stephanos,  who  without a  word,  embraced  him  and  kissed  him.  All  was  clean  and  tidy and  a 
smiling  Yiassounai  kissed  Stephanos,  thanking  him. ‘My  dear Yiassounai,’ said  Stephanos, ‘were 
you  happy  in K’far  Nahum?  I  know  you  must  have  been,  near  Joshua,  but  it  was  very  lonely  here 
without you.’ 
'Of  course  I  was  happy,’ Yiassounai  said, ‘But  of  course  I  missed  you  too.  I  kept  calling 
Isshaak, “Stephanos.”’ 
‘Who is Is-shaak?’ Stephanos asked. 
‘The nephew of Rayis Rabbi Samuel,’ said Yiassounai. ‘He’s about your age and a novice too. 
He’s a good friend, and a brother, and always kind to me, but he is not my beloved Stephanos. I do 
not miss him now as I missed you. Every night I was away I came to you, Stephanos. I know that you 
slept in my bed and only this morning you made it up with clean coverings.’  
‘Yes,’ said Stephanos, ‘I felt your presence, but I thought it might only be wishful thinking and 
imagination.’ 
‘I’ll  tell  you  something  else,’ Yiassounai  said. ‘You  have  the  keys  with  you,  don’t  you?  And 
you know  I haven’t been in my room? There are four new pots there you painted white and planted 
with broad-leafed basil. There are two at each window.’ 
‘Three nights  ago  about  midnight  you  felt  thirsty.  You  got  up  and  took  the  clay  bowl  to  fill 
from the water jar. But you stumbled, turning an ankle, and broke both the bowl and the jar. The jar 
on the window is a new one, larger than the other. And the bowl is one of  yours.  And that ankle of 
yours still throbs, does it not, Stephanos?’ 
  

93 
 
Yiassounai  smiled  at  his  bewildered  friend,  saying, ‘Why  don’t  you  train  yourself  to  extend 
your Self-consciousness and to leave the material body at will? It isn't difficult. I learnt to do it many 
centuries ago. It’s just waking up while your body sleeps.’ 
Stephanos smiled too, looking at his brother novice with great love. ‘Not yet,’ he said, ‘I have 
other things to do now.’ 
On the next morning after the service of worship the Rayis Rabbis and the Essene Elders held 
their first meeting in the synagogue. 
The Rayis Rabbi Ephraim asked Joshua to open the discussion. It was Joshua’s wish that these 
discussions  should  be  held  in  the  spirit  of  love  for  God  and  for  all  fellow  human  beings without  ill 
will towards anyone. With his arms stretched upward, he spoke to them in Greek and Aramaic. 
 
You shall love the Lord your God with all 
your heart and with all your Soul and with 
all your mind and all your fellow men as your 
own Self. (cf. Matthew 22:37,39) 
 
 
 
 
As already more than a hundred seeking  healing had gathered noisily in the courtyard, Joshua 
asked  the  Rayis  Rabbis  and  the  Elders  to  excuse  him.  Beckoning  to  Stephanos  and Yiassounai  to 
follow, he left the synagogue hall and went into the courtyard to heal. 
Meanwhile, Ephraim  asked the assembled  Rayis  Rabbis  to  give  their  first-hand  reports. Some 
could barely conceal their rage against the Israelites. 
On the third morning, the Rayis Rabbis and the Essene Elders held their second meeting in the 
same place. Ephraim asked Joshua to be present and to pray his worship prayer to Alaha. Joshua with 
arms upstretched prayed in Greek and Aramaic. 
 
 
 
Our Father who art in the Heavens and everywhere. Your name is Holy. Your Kingdom is here and 
everywhere. Your Will is done on the Earth as it is done in the Heavens, (cf. Matthew 6:9-10) 
 

94 
 
‘Reverend Rayis Rabbis and Elders,’ Joshua continued, ‘not a single leaf falls from a tree if it is 
not  the  Will  of Alaha.  Our  protection  comes  only  from Alaha.’ Joshua  then  gave  his  place to 
Ephraim. 
Ephraim asked the Rayis Rabbi Naasson of the See of Kir-Hareseth, who was waving his hand 
insistently,  to  speak.  Naasson  could  not  hide  his  anger. ‘Reverend  Rabbis  and  Elders,’ he said 
bitterly, ‘we the Essenes of  Palestine are a third of the population. Palestine is under the rule of the 
Roman  Empire,  of  the  Israelite  King  Herod  and  the  Israelite  religious  authority,  the Sanhedrin.  We 
Essenes  are  a  peace-loving  people,  who  several  centuries  ago  abolished  slavery.  The Alaha we 
worship  is  merciful.  The Alaha of Moshe is  cruel  and  revengeful;  a  punishing Alaha with  all  the 
human  vices.  We  Essenes  no  longer  offer  to Alaha blood  sacrifices  of  animals and  birds. We  have 
accepted in our lives the law “love all—forgive and forget.” The law of vengeance calls for “an eye 
for an eye and a tooth for a tooth,” but our beloved Joshua has taught us to turn to the one who slaps 
us, the other cheek. No longer do we live by the many cruel, anachronistic practices of Mosaic Law. 
And so the Sanhedrin considers us heretics and we suffer continually at their hands. 
‘Six  months  ago  I  reported  to  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim  a  crime  that  the  Sanhedrin  committed 
against us. And now, one month ago in Kir-Hareseth another crime. Four fifths of the people living in 
Kir-Hareseth are Israelites. Six months ago, by order of the Sanhedrin, the Israelites set a fire Assa’s 
wooden workshop and house, which stood between the small Essene community and the much larger 
Israelite quarter. The fire was set an hour after midnight, burning alive Assa, his wife and their three 
children sleeping on the second story. Assa was a carpenter. His crime was working on the Sabbath. 
‘And  now,  a  month ago,  the  Sanhedrin  exacted  vengeance  on  an  impoverished,  orphaned 
Essene  girl  and  her  mother.  The  girl,  Rahab,  eighteen  years  old  and  very  beautiful,  lived  with her 
mother,  Rachel,  in  a  one-room  hut  in  the  Israelite  quarter,  a  hundred  yards  from  the  looms they 
worked.  The  son-in-law  of  the  owner  of  the  looms,  an  uncouth  young  Israelite,  fell  in  love with 
Rahab  with  not  the  slightest  encouragement  on  her  part  of  these  sinful  feelings.  His  wife, the  rich 
daughter  of  the  owner  of  the  looms,  was  fifteen  years  his  elder  and  was  very  fat  and lazy.  Rahab’s 
rejection of his advances infuriated the man. He responded by neglecting, insulting, and even beating 
his wife. His wife responded by accusing Rahab and her mother of being witches who had cast a spell 
on  her  husband.  She also  spread  the  slander  that  Rahab  was  wanton, and cunningly  devilish,  giving 
herself on the streets to Israelite men and corrupting young boys. These lies she presented in writing 
to  the  Israelite  Rabbi  who  represented  the  Sanhedrin. The  Sanhedrin advised  the Rabbi  to look  into 
and act upon the accusations without further involving the Sanhedrin, to avoid any conflict with the 
Roman  authorities.  If  there  was  to  be an  execution,  the  Sanhedrin  ordered,  let  it  appear  to  be  a 
spontaneous demonstration of the people’s righteous outrage.’ 
‘The  wicked  woman,  with  the  consent of  the  Israelite  Rabbi  of  Kir-Hareseth,  then  conspired 
with four thugs, whom she paid generously, and with a corrupt young man. One day, after sunset, as 
Rahab and her mother were coming home from work, the young man appeared from behind a pile of 
stones  the  thugs  had  collected.  He  grabbed  Rahab  tearing  off  her  clothes and  raping  her.  As  Rachel 
screamed  for  help,  the  four  hoodlums  appeared  with  stones  in  their fists.  Rachel  was  struck  on  the 
head  again  and  again.  She  died  in  a  pool  of  blood.  The  young man, having  satisfied  his  brutal 
instincts on the body of the unconscious girl, turned her over to her executioners, who stoned her to 
death too. All night their bloody bodies lay in the road. When I was told of these crimes the next day 
before  sunrise,  I  hurried  there  with  two  women, who  served  the  Essene  See  of  Kir-Hareseth.  We 
wrapped Rahab’s body in linen cloths and took them both for burial. 
  

95 
 
‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbis  and  Elders,  you  well  know  that  these  are  not  the  only  offenses 
committed  upon  us  by  the Sanhedrin.  The  Samaritans  were  likewise  ill  used  until  they  accepted 
Roman citizenship, releasing them from the yoke of Mosaic Law and the whips of the Sanhedrin.’ 
Though Roman Law requires that the Roman Governor must approve all sentences of death, in 
practice  the  Governor  turns  a  blind  eye  to  the  crimes  of  Herod  and  the  Sanhedrin, hoping  thus  to 
force  us  to  accept  Roman  citizenship  for  our  own  protection.  The  Egyptian Essenes  are  Roman 
citizens.  Why  don’t  we  also  accept  Roman  citizenship  for  our  protection? It  is  time  to  rethink  this 
matter most carefully.’  
The Rayis Rabbi Samuel of K’far Nahum responded; ‘Reverend Rayis Rabbis and Elders, with 
no  intention  of  casting  blame  on  my  brother  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Naasson,  I  note  that  these two  heart 
wrenching  cases,  and  many  others  like  them,  are  predictable  and  therefore  avoidable.  Such  crimes 
have  been  all  too  common,  not  only  with  Essenes  as  victims,  but  Israelite brothers  as  well.  Our 
purpose  must  be  not  to  place  blame,  but  to  discover  ways  to  protect  ourselves.  Perhaps  my  brother 
Naasson  has  not  understood  the  message  of  our  beloved  Messiah Joshua.  If  I  understand  him,  he  is 
teaching us to pray to Alaha, our Father, to defend us, and not to put our faith in human idolaters. He 
teaches us that we must love, tolerate, and forgive all human beings, the offspring of Alaha. 
‘When  the  Roman  Empire  annexed  Egypt,  the  Essenes  became  Roman  citizens.  The Romans 
came  to  Egypt  as  liberators  without  opposition,  freeing  the  Egyptians  from  the  suffering  they  had 
endured  under the  Greco-Egyptian  Queen,  Cleopatra,  and  the  Ptolemy  dynasty. The  Romans  never 
tried  to  convert  the  Egyptians  to  their  gods.  Some  Egyptians  worshipped Greek  and  Egyptian  gods. 
The Essene Egyptians worshipped the One Spirit God, Aton, our Alaha. All were free to worship as 
they  chose.  In  Palestine,  on  the  other  hand,  the  Romans came  as  conquerors.  Though  they  retained 
the  Israelite  King,  they  have  gone  to  great  lengths to  undermine  his  power  and  authority,  with  the 
intention of eventually  gaining complete control over Palestine. So now we are at  the mercy of two 
powers:  The  Romans and  King  Herod with  the  Sanhedrin.  To  accept  the  Roman citizenship  offered 
us is to further the conspiracy of the Romans, enraging Herod and the Sanhedrin. We must not enter 
into this political conflict, at least not yet.’ 
The Rayis Rabbi Ephraim turned to Joshua saying, ‘Malpana Rabbi Joshua, what do you say?’ 
‘Beloved ones,’ said Joshua, ‘all of you, let us pray to Alaha for protection and enlightenment that we 
may foresee dangers and avoid them. Those who consider themselves our enemies, are those most in 
need  of  our  love  and  prayers.  They  are  our  brothers  and  sisters,  lost  in the  darkness  of  ignorance. 
Love  them.  For  all  human  beings—be  they  Romans,  Greeks, Israelites,  Essenes, Bedouins,  or 
strangers from the East—all are our brothers and sisters, all are offspring of our Father Alaha.’  
There  was  much  noise  in  the  courtyard  where  a  crowd,  mostly  Israelite,  waited  for  Joshua. 
Joshua  excused  himself  to  go  to  them.  Stephanos  and  Yiassounai  were  outside  trying  to  calm and 
quiet the sufferers and their families. 
After Joshua had gone out, the Rayis Rabbis and the Elders decided not to accept the offer of 
Roman citizenship, and to increase their vigilance, anticipating violence so as to peacefully prevent it. 
Then they too went out to witness the healing. 
Stephanos brought forward two men, both blind from birth. Joshua asked them if they believed 
in Alaha, and if they believed that Alaha could heal them. They replied that though they believed in 
Alaha, they thought themselves too  sinful to ask for mercy. ‘But  you, our  Lord,’ they pleaded, ‘can 
ask Alaha for us.’ 
‘Dear  ones,’ said  Joshua  softly, ‘your  sins  are  forgiven.’ Holding  the  head  in  one  hand,  he 
caressed their eyes with two fingers of his right hand, healing them entirely. The brother of one of the 
two,  an  Israelite  Rabbi,  was  outraged. ‘Who  do  you  think  you  are,  young  man?’ he  demanded. 
‘Forgiving sins? Only Alaha can forgive sins. You may be a healer, but you are not Alaha!’  

96 
 
‘Which is easier,’ Joshua replied, ‘to forgive sins or to make the blind see? To heal, one must 
be able to remove the cause of the affliction.’ 
To the Rayis Rabbis and Elders, who were astonished by this miracle, the Rayis Rabbi Samuel 
and Ephraim said, ‘Joshua is the Messiah. What more could one expect from the expected One?’ 
That  morning  Joshua  healed  more  than  a  hundred:  paralytics,  epileptics,  and  two  lepers, 
returning them to good health with his love and blessing. The two born blind were ecstatic, thanking 
Joshua, kissing his hands. Seeing now the light, the colors of the temple and synagogue, the trees, the 
flowers, the people around them, and the radiant face and sweet smile of Joshua, they thanked Alaha 
for His great Love and Mercy. 
That afternoon Yiacoub the son of Yioussouf gathered, at Joshua’s request, the disciple-healers 
for  instruction.  The  Rayis  Rabbis  and  the  Elders  were  also  welcomed.  A  crowd  of  more than  a 
hundred gathered in the synagogue. 
The Rayis Rabbis and Elders sat on stools to the left and right of the pulpit while the disciple-
healers  sat  cross-legged  on  cushions.  Joshua  entered  with  Ephraim  and  Samuel.  The Rayis  Rabbis 
found  their  stools,  and Joshua  stood in  the  pulpit  in  his  snow-white,  ankle-length robe,  looking  like 
an unearthly being. He stretched his hands to the ceiling, filling the hall with his El Shaddai aura and 
said in Greek and Aramaic: 
 
Our Father, who art in the Heavens and everywhere, Your name is Holy. Your Kingdom is here and  
everywhere. Your will is done on Earth as it is done in the Heavens, (cf. Matthew 6:9-10) 
 
‘Beloved  ones,  all  of  you,  Spirit-Soul-Egos,  sons  of  the  Light,  offspring  of  the  Father Alaha. 
Alaha is  the  everlasting,  Infinite  Reality,  the  Absolute  Infinite  Beingness,  the  Absolute Infinite 
Selfhood in Its Self-sufficiency, in Its Self-plurality, in Its Omnipresent One-ness. 
‘In the Absolute Infinite Beingness are, beyond numbers, immortal Spirit Beings, Its Plurality, 
Self-conscious  in Alaha’s One-ness. Alaha,  and  all  the  Spirit  Beings  in Alaha, are  Self-sufficient, 
enjoying the total Wisdom and Almightiness of Alaha. 
‘Another nature of Alaha, and of the Spirit Beings in Its One-ness, is the Will-pleasure of Alaha 
and their Will-pleasure to manifest Alaha’s and their total Wisdom by creating the universes and all 
that  is  in  them,  and  by  sustaining  them  and  sustaining  everything  in  them  using Alaha’s and  their 
total Wisdom and Alaha’s and their Almightiness. Thus movement and Mind Supersubstance appear. 
There was no time when the universes, the worlds of existence, and the Heavens did not exist. 
‘The  Will-pleasure  of Alaha and  the  Will-pleasure  of  the  immortal  Spirit  Beings  in Alaha 
classified,  for  manifestation,  the  Spirit  Beings  according  to  their  nature  in  Archangelic  Orders 
presenting Alaha as Alaha Elohim also in its Divine One-ness. 
  

97 
 
‘Alaha Elohim, with Its Holy  Archangels, using Alaha’s total Wisdom and their total Wisdom 
and Alaha’s Almightiness and their Almightiness created, are creating, and will always create, worlds 
of existence  with  everything  in  them,  sustaining  these  worlds  and  everything living  and  existing  in 
them, continuously and always. 
‘This  is  the  Divine  Plan.  The  characteristics  of  all  the  worlds  of  existence—the  Noetic,  the 
noetical,  the  psychical,  the  etheric  and  the  gross material  worlds—are  Form,  Life-Light,  Mind 
Supersubstance Vitality and continuous motion and change in appearance. Everything in these worlds 
is dual, in One.’ 
‘Perhaps the best symbol to explain this is the line. In a straight line, no matter how long, there 
is  a  perceptible  middle  with  opposite  sides.  From  that  middle  and around  that middle, thousands  of 
opposite sides may be traced.’ 
‘That  middle  in  every  living  being  and  in  everything  living  is Alaha.  The  opposite  sides  all 
around the middle are the fields of the activities of Alaha and of the Holy  Archangels, the  Lords of 
the Elements.  In the material world the dual aspects are the male and the female. The two opposite 
sides and the middle of these aspects are Alaha. Alaha is neither male nor female, but both in Alaha’s 
One-ness.’ 
‘In every living being, and in everything living in the material world, the middle is Alaha. One 
side  is  the  Divine.  In  it  are  the  Life-Light  and  the  Form  with  its  Circle  of  Possibility  and the  Holy 
Spiritual and Archangelic total Wisdom concerning that Form of life, and Mind Supersubstance. The 
other  side  is  the  mundane  side,  the  side of  movement  and  constant  change in  the appearance  of the 
form  in  the  various  stages  of  the  Circle  of  Possibility;  it  is  the  phenomenon  of  life.  Every 
phenomenon  of  life  begins  with  its  seed  or  its  semen-spermatozoon  growing on  its  Circle  of 
Possibility  in  order  to  complete  that  unchanging  circle  to  the  end,  the  death  of the  gross  material 
body.’ 
‘Returning  to  the  symbol  of  the  line,’ Joshua  said, ‘the  perceptible  middle  of  every  human 
being is always Alaha, the Spirit-Life-Light, the Principle of Life. The Divine side is the Spirit-Soul-
Ego-Being, immortal and unchanging.  In the Soul-Ego are the human form and the whole Circle of 
Possibility of a human being in all the worlds of existence in the eternal present. The mundane side is 
that part of the Soul-Ego that is expanded in time and in a certain place. The Holy Archangels dress 
that   part   of   the   Soul-Ego   with   bodies   they   create   using   the   human Form and   the   Mind  
Supersubstance. In the worlds of existence the Soul-Ego-Self creates an image of its Ego-Self on the 
threefold mirror; the gross material body, the psychical body (the body of emotions), and the noetical 
body  (the  body  of  thoughts).  This image  is  the  present-day  personality  of  a  human  being.  The 
threefold mirror represents our three bodies, which are created and unceasingly sustained by the Holy 
Archangels,  the  Lords  of  the  Elements.  That  reflected  image takes  on  a  life  of  its  own,  constantly 
changing  in  appearance  and  behavior,  according  to  the laws  of  the  worlds  of  existence.  It is  the 
present-day personality.’ 
The  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel  rose  and  asked  permission  to  speak. ‘Dearest  one, Malpana Rabbi 
Joshua,’ he said, ‘Do you mean that we all have two selves?’ 
‘Certainly  not,’ Joshua  replied. ‘Our  real Self  is  our  Soul-Ego-Self,  the  same  always.  It  is not 
the ever changing egoism of our present-day personality. It is not our image on the three fold mirror. 
The heart of the human personality, and the pulse of life, is our Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self, which expanded 
part of its immortal Self in the personality, animating the personality in its bodies. The real Soul-Ego 
Self of a human being is like a sun hidden in heavy clouds of ignorance created by desires, emotions, 
present-day thoughts, and dispositions of the personality. But for how long? And does this matter?  
The personality—with its ever changing egoism, its bodies, desires, emotions, and thoughts—is 
only an image of our Self, the sun hidden behind the clouds of ignorance. The personality’s egoism is 
not our Ego-Self, though the heart of the personality’s life is the Ego-Self. Even the personality will  

98 
 
not  perish.  Its  task  is  to  transmute  its  self,  by  cleaning  it  of  dirty emotions  and  thoughts and  the 
darkness of ignorance and illusions; then the seemingly perishable personality will be transmuted into 
the imperishable Soul-Ego-Self, and the continuously changing mortal human egoism will give way 
to the immortal Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self. 
‘Shall the mundane side withdraw its self to the middle in order to expand again to the material 
world? The  middle  has  many  other  opposite  sides  to  expand  its  self  into.  To  the  psychical?  The 
noetical? To the Noetic worlds or beyond?’ 
‘The  effort  of  cleaning  the  heart  of  the  personality  must  be  made  by  the  Soul-Ego-Self, in  its 
expression as the personality. Human beings, men and women, must decide to enter boldly into their 
subconsciousness, using the Mind substance for reasonable thinking, and study the elementals living 
in  their  personality—both  the  human-in-nature  angels  and  the human-in-nature  demons—that  they 
have created subconsciously. They must work Self consciously to annihilate the power of the human-
in-nature  demons  (rendering  them  inactive), and  to  strengthen  the  human-in-nature  angels,  creating 
Superconsciously good and powerful elementals.’ 
‘You speak of people “possessed by demons”, but I say that no demon or Fallen One can enter 
a  human  body  and  possess  it.  The  Archangels  sustaining  every  human  body  forbid  it.  But human-
demons created by the personality can return home from whence they came bringing with them seven 
other human-demons, and taking possession of that personality, to the  great displeasure of the Holy 
Archangels  who  are  creating  and  sustaining  the  body  in  which  that stupid,  not  to  say  evil,  person 
lives.’ 
When an unclean spirit goes out of a man, he goes through dry places, seeking rest, and finding 
none, he says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’ And when he comes, he finds it swept 
and put in order. Then he goes and takes with him, seven other spirits more wicked than himself and 
they enter and dwell there; and the last state of that man is worse than the first. (Luke 11:24-26) 
‘Dear ones, beware of the desires, the emotions, and the thoughts you allow your personality to 
harbor. Beware of all that you are subconsciously creating. For these elementals, emotion-forms and 
thought-forms, are living human-in-nature angels and human-in-nature demons.’ 
‘Tomorrow, at the same hour, I will talk to you about human bodies and their etheric doubles, 
especially  about  the  etheric  double  of  the  gross  material  body,  the  body  of  the  Mind Vitality  and 
energy, that you may learn to use it in healing. Alaha be with you at all times.’ 
 
 
  

99 
 
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN Making Men Whole 
[THE ESSENE COUNCIL AGREES TO REFUSE ROMAN CITIZENSHIP AND TO HEED JOSHUA’s ADVICE. 
JOSHUA TEACHES ON THE DUAL-IN-ONE. HEALS LEPERS AND SMALL CHILD.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver 
us from evil. (Matthew 6:13) 
 
 
On  the  following  day,  after  the  morning  service  and  after  breakfast,  the  Essene  Rabbis  convened 
again.  Joshua,  arms  outstretched,  offered  his  worship  prayer  to Alaha.  Rayis  Rabbi Ephraim  then 
approached  the  pulpit. ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbis and  Essene  Elders,’ he  said, ‘eighteen  of  you  have 
agreed to the decisions we have taken. Two have abstained. 
‘It is our decision: 
 To refuse, for the time being, the Roman citizenship offered by the Roman Governor of Palestine 
to the Essenes. 
 To be more vigilant in anticipating danger at the hands of the Sanhedrin and the Israelites. And 
to peacefully go to the aid of Essenes in danger, offering them refuge in Essene quarters. 
 To raise funds by donation to assist Essenes to relocate, when threatened, to sanctuaries of their 
choice. 
 To instruct every Essene to report immediately to a Rayis Rabbi or Rabbi any threat to his life or 
the life of any other Essene. 
 To advise every Essene to avoid any argument with Israelites, especially on religious matters.’  
 
Ephraim  warned  the  Essene  Rayis  Rabbis  and  Rabbis  that  they  must  keep  these  discussions 
secret. Nothing would be put in writing and each of them was to act on these decisions secretly and 
silently. And thus the Council ended. 
Before  noon,  on  that  same  day, all  the  Rayis  Rabbis  and  many  of  the  elders  left  the  See  of 
Yerushalayim  to  return  to  their  own  Sees.  Remaining  were  the  Essene  Elders  who  lived  in 
Yerushalayim  and  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel,  who  was  to  return  the  following  clay  to K’far  Nahum 
with Joshua, Yiohannan and the two Yiacoubs. 
In the visitors
’
 sitting room, Rayis Rabbi Samuel said to the others, in K’far Nahum four fifths 
of  the  population  are  well-to-do  Essenes.  Though  the  Israelites  are  a  small,  and  mostly  poor, 
minority,  
 

100 
 
they are sometimes very provocative. But as they are dependent on the Essenes for their livelihoods, 
they do not dare to actually harm any Essene, and the Sanhedrin is, so far, powerless in K’far Nahum. 
‘The See of K’far Nahum owns land north of the Sea of Galilee on which small houses might 
be  built  for  Essenes  who  are  in  need  of  sanctuary.  I  am  sure  many  Essenes  in K’far Nahum  would 
contribute generously to such a project. I will open a special fund with eight thousand Roman silver 
denarii from the See and four thousand of my own money. We can build such small houses and make 
them ready very quickly.’ 
The  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim  responded  to  this  beneficent  offer  saying, ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi 
Samuel,  dearest  friend  and  brother,  when  you  were  here  in  Yerushalayim  as  a  Rabbi  Teacher and 
later as a Rayis Rabbi,  you were always  so generous, spending  your salary on the  poor. And not on 
Essenes  only,  but  Israelites  too!  We  Essenes  of  Yerushalayim  are,  as  you  all  know,  only a  small 
minority.  The  Sanhedrin  and  Herod  have  their  spies  everywhere,  for  they  secretly  consider  us  to  be 
heretics.  The  See  of  Yerushalayim  is  not  rich,  but  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel,  I  pledge you  two  thousand 
silver  denarii  from  the  treasury  of  the  See  and  one  thousand  of  my  own.  It  is all  I  have  here  in  my 
wooden  safe.  I would  give  you  more,  but  I  spent  some  to entertain  my brothers  and  guests  here  for 
this meeting. I will send more as soon as I have it. Whenever Joshua comes to Yerushalayim, I will 
send  back  with  him  whatever  I  can.’ Joshua  looked  with great  love  upon  the two,  white-bearded 
Rayis Rabbis saying, 
 
 
 
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst 
for righteousness: for they shall be filled. 
(Matthew 5:6) 
 
 
‘Have  no  fear,’ said  Joshua, ‘for the  fund  you  have  established today,  will  never  lack  what is 
needed to serve its purposes.’ 
That afternoon three stools were set on either side of the pulpit for the four Essene Elders and 
the  two  Rayis  Rabbis.  Sixty-five  Essene  and  Israelite  disciple-healers  sat  cross-legged  on cushions 
before the pulpit. 
From  the  pulpit  Joshua filled the  whole  space  with  his aura  and  with  his El  Shaddai (Logoic) 
Love, and with arms outstretched he recited his worship prayer to Alaha, attuning his human self to 
his El Shaddai Divine Selfhood. 
‘Beloved ones,’ said Joshua, ‘all of you, Benai Or (Sons of the Light), offspring of Alaha. Our 
Father Alaha as Alaha Elohim in Its Omnipresent One-ness with Its Holy Archangels created you, the 
human  beings,  in  their  image  and  according  to  their  likeness:  dual—Divine  and  mundane,  an 
immortal  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Being  and  a  Soul-personality  entity,  a  time-and-place human  self,  your 
personality and your three bodies. 
‘Observe  your  material  body.  It  was  created  dual:  two  eyes,  two  ears,  two  nostrils,  and  in the 
skull  two  material  lobes  of  matter,  the  brains.  Elohim  gave  you  two  hands  and  arms,  two feet  and 
legs, two shoulders and two sets of ribs to protect the two lungs in your chest. 
‘The line is the symbol of the dual-in-One which is the characteristic of the worlds of existence. 
No  matter  how  long  the  line  may  be,  it  always  has  two  visible  ends  and  a  perceptible  middle.  This 
invisible middle in every human being, and in every living thing, is Alaha Elohim. 
 

101 
 
 
 
‘Every  middle  has  many  opposite  sides  all  around  it.  These  opposite  sides  are  the  fields  of 
activity of the Elohim, Alaha in Its Plurality yet always in Its Omnipresent One-ness.’ 
‘In  a  human  being,  the  Divine  is  the  immortal  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self,  never  changing  in  its 
Divine greatness; and the mundane is its Ego-Self expression in time-and-place, the mortal petty self, 
the  present-day  personality  with  its  egoism  and  its  bodies;  the  material,  ethereal,  psychical  and 
noetical—continuously changing, as they move on the Circle of Human Possibility.’ In the worlds of 
existence everything that appears to be one, has its two opposite sides.  
‘Alaha  Elohim has  given  you  two  eyes  to  see  clearly,  two  ears  to  hear  well,  and  one  tongue, 
enclosed in the mouth and the teeth, to speak truthfully and thoughtfully. Alaha Elohim has given you 
two  hands  to  work with,  not  to  kill,  and  two  feet  to  walk  with,  not  to  kick  others.  When  angry or 
upset, be still, become calm, and be sure you are thinking properly and  seeing things in the light of 
love, refusing to listen to the wicked promptings of the personality’s egoism.’ 
‘Alaha  Elohim gave  you  two  lungs  to  breathe  life-giving  air  so  that  your  material  body  may 
live. That air is filled with Alaha’s Mind Vitality to build your personality and the etheric double of 
your material body. And Alaha Elohim gave you the Mind Supersubstance to use to create your own 
thought-emotion-forms,  living  forms,  the  elementals  with  which  you  build  your personality.  Ask 
yourself if you are creating with Alaha’s Mind Supersubstance human-in-nature angels or human-in-
nature demons.’ 
And  then  the  God-man  Joshua,  in  at-one-ment  with Alaha’s Omnipresent  One-ness,  said, 
‘Beloved ones, all of you, my children, I AM the Lord your God in you. I AM your Spirit-Soul-Ego-
Being.  I  AM  the  real  Ego-Self  in  you  as  a  human  being.  Love  me,  the  Lord  your  God,  your own 
Being-Self.  I  AM  the  Lord  your  God,  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Being  in  every  human  being. Love  the 
Lord your God in the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self of all your fellow men, your brothers and your sisters. 
‘You believe mistakenly that you are separate, disconnected entities in the worlds of existence. 
In truth all of you live and have your being in my Omnipresent One-ness.’ 
‘Beloved ones, all of you, my offspring, be still and listen. I speak to you not only in words, but 
also directly, in your minds. 
‘I have created all the universes of existence. This is my Will-pleasure.’ 
‘I  have  created  my  Mind  Supersubstance  as  my  Mind  Vitality,  movement,  force,  power  and 
energy.’ 
‘All that you need to live I have created in abundance.’ 
‘I  have  given  you  my  Light,  as much  as  you  as  human  beings  can  endure.  I  have  created the 
elements:  fire,  water,  etheric  Vitality,  air  and  matter.  With  all  these  elements  I  have  created your 
bodies.’ 
‘Breathe. Fill your lungs with air and hear me and feel me in the air you breathe.’ 
‘Breathe Self-consciously. Hear me and feel me in my Mind Vitality. Feel me as the warmth of 
your red blood. I have given you a material heart. Feel me and hear me in your heart. Hear me in the 
beats of your heart. I AM the pulse of life.’ 
‘Feel the etheric double of your material body which I have created. Feel it, study it and use it 
Self-consciously. Through it you can use my Mind Vitality in creating thought-forms, the elementals 
that compose your present-day personality.  Beware that you make good use of my Mind Vitality by 
creating human-in-nature angels. Do not create human-in-nature demons. Do not allow such demons 
to enter you and take possession of your mind and heart.’ 
‘By using Self-consciously the Mind Vitality in your etheric double, which is the store house of 
Mind Vitality, you will discover that anger, anxiety, enmity, jealousy, hatred, all other human   

102 
 
weakness, and especially unbridled lust,  exhaust this Mind Vitality,  which the  Holy Archangels use 
to create and sustain the material body. When you waste Mind Vitality—your daily bread—the gift of 
Alaha, you allow illnesses to enter your material body. 
‘Beloved ones, all of you, my children, let your material body, which is my gift to you, be my 
body,   my   temple.   Let   the   human-in-nature   angels   which   compose   your   personality   be   the 
congregation in my temple. I will bless them. Make your material heart, my gift to you, my Holy of 
Holies. On its altar light the lamp with the inextinguishable Light, the Light of Love for all mankind. 
Let the Light of your Love lead all to the way of righteousness.’ 
 
A  young disciple-healer, asking to speak, said, ‘Reverend Malpana Rabbi, who are  you? When you 
are near, we all experience such a great joy, that is beyond our understanding,’  
‘Dear one,’ Joshua replied, ‘I am a human being as you are. I have a human body. I am a Son 
of the Heavenly Man, an Idea in the Absolute Wisdom of Alaha. Also I am that I am. I know I am, 
and I feel I am, a Spirit-Ego-Self in my El Shaddai Selfhood in the One-ness of Alaha. I know and I 
feel that all human beings live and exist in my El Shaddai Selfhood. To understand this you must free 
yourself from the illusions of the worlds  of separateness and by introspection enter the  Kingdom of 
the  Heavens,  which  is  in  your  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self. I  am  the  Law, the  cause  of  everything  and  the 
course of everything. I am the Truth and the Life everlasting.’  
‘Now, like most human beings, you live instinctively and subconsciously. But in the course of 
time  you  will  unfold  in  your  personality  your  awareness,  your  Self-consciousness,  and  your Self-
Superconsciousness  by  using  Mind  Vitality  Supersubstance  properly.  Then  you  will  know who  you 
really are.’ 
‘To know who I AM, you must know who you ARE. Does it matter who I am? What matters is 
to know how to reach Self-Realization, how to unfold in yourself Superconsciousness.’ 
‘By practicing for many years exercises in concentration, meditation and visualization, you will 
be  able  to  attune  the  consciousness  to  any  object  of  study,  to  know  its  nature,  to  move it, even  to 
dematerialize and re-materialize it. These are the first steps of Self-Superconsciousness.’ 
‘To  be  able  Self-Superconsciously  to  reach  the  at-one-ment  with  the El  Shaddai,  the Logos, 
with the  Life everlasting, is to enter in the One-ness of Alaha. You will not lose  your Ego-Self, but 
your  time-and-place  changing  self  is  transmuted  into  your  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self. You  lose  nothing. 
You gain everything.’ 
‘The  mold  in  which,  and  by  means  of  which, Alaha  Elohim continuously  creates  and sustains 
your material  body  is  the  etheric  double  of  the  material  body. Alaha and  the  Holy Archangels,  the 
Lords of the Elements, who have in them the Absolute Wisdom concerning human beings with their 
Circle of Human Possibility, create the etheric double of the human spermatozoon and through it the 
gross  material  spermatozoon.  The  Circle  of  Possibility  of  a human  being  is  known  to  you: 
conception,  birth,  living  and  growing,  according  to  its  laws.  As long  as  you  live  in  your  material 
body, you live also in its etheric double. You should be aware of it as you are aware of your material 
body  and  be  able to  use  it.  You  can  use the  etheric  double  for  your  own  well-being.  It  is  the  center 
and source of Mind Vitality by means of which the Holy  Archangels build and sustain continuously 
your material body.’ 
‘The  Ego-Self  can  use  the  Mind  Vitality  Self-consciously.  This  is  the  energy-power  of  every 
healer.  With it  you  can  create  most  powerful  thought-forms.  And  with  these  angelic  thought-forms, 
elementals,  under  your control  you can work wonders.  He who believes in me, in  my teaching, and 
who practices sincerely, he can perform also the wonders I am working. He will be able to store this 
Mind Vitality in his belly or solar plexus, and I will make rivers of living water flow from his belly.’ 
Joshua said this in Greek (John 7:38): 
 

103 
 
 
 
‘The Mind Vitality, or living water, in the etheric double of the material body of a human being 
as  vital  energy  is  Holy-Spiritual.  The  Mind  Vitality  of  the  etheric  double  of  the  material body  as 
feeling-giving  energy  or  aesthetic  ether  gives,  subconsciously,  to  the  human  being  the feeling  of 
living. In the etheric double of the psychical body it creates the sensations giving rise to desires and 
emotions.’ 
‘Mind  Vitality  as  the  Supersubstance  of  Mind  from  the  Noetic  and  the  noetical  planes 
connected to the etheric double of the material body, gives the material body formless Mind Vitality 
to  be  used  as  thoughts  and  formless  Mind  substance  to  create,  by  visualization, thought-forms, 
elementals, which may be in greater or lesser degrees angelic or demonic.’ 
‘By raising your personality’s Ego-Self to the levels of the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self, which is your 
real  Self,  you  allow  Self-consciousness  and  Self-Superconsciousness  to  unfold  in  your purified 
personality. As master of the Supersubstance and the substance of Mind, you become also master of 
Mind-matter.   You   are   then   able   to   materialize   Mind   Vitality,   which   is   everywhere in   the 
Omnipresence  of Alaha, into  the  form  of  anything  you  choose,  and  to  dematerialize  anything.  You 
may  also  transmute  matter  by  changing  its  form,  its  nature, and  its  substance...  But beware!  This  is 
the  task  of  the  Holy  Archangels,  the  Lords  of  the  Elements.  First  you  must  be in  Self-conscious 
contact  with  them  by  attunement,  or  accepted  by  them  as  being  one  of  them through  at-one-ment.’ 
What joy, what great joy it is to the Archangels in the Heavens when one returns to his Divine nature! 
‘There is much more to say to you, but the time for that is not yet. You would not understand.’ 
‘From the point of  view of creation,  your material bodies are perfect and  your material brains 
are  given  to  you  to  serve  you  as  long  as  you  depend  on  them,  believing  that  you  are  the body,  the 
sensations,    emotions    and    thoughts.    But    when    you    unfold    Self-consciousness    and    Self-
Superconsciousness  in  your  personality,  you  will  know  that  you  can  think  without  your  material 
brains. You do not need your brain to think and feel when you are out of your material body, either in 
exosomatosis (out of body experience) or when you leave the material body with its brain to die.’ 
‘Life is not only what you know as the phenomenon of life. I am the Way (the course of things 
in  the  phenomena  of  life),  the  Truth and  Life  (cf.  John  14:6). Whoever  believes  in  me, will  not  die 
with his material body, but will continue to live Self-consciously in the worlds of existence in other 
dimensions, in other worlds of phenomena of life. And there they will not be different in appearance 
from what they were in the gross material world of the three dimensions. In the house of my  Father 
Alaha are many mansions (cf. John 14:2). 
‘From the point of view of the Spirit-Soul, the gross material body is of no importance. As long 
as  a  human  being  lives  in  it,  it  is  constantly  changing  in  appearance  according  to  its  course in  its 
Circle  of  Possibility.  In  death  the  gross  matter  in  any  state  of  its  appearance  on  the  Circle of 
Possibility is cast away from the human form. So death affects only the gross material body and not 
the  Human  Form  or  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego,  or  even  the  time-and-place  personality.  From the  point  of 
view of the Spirit-Soul, the material body is nothing. Only the Spirit-Soul-Ego, the everlasting Ego-
Self, Life itself, has value.’ 
In Greek Joshua the God-man said, 
 
And I say to you, my friends, do not be 
afraid of those who kill... 
  

104 
 
...the body and after that have no more 
that they can do. (Luke 12:4) 
 
 
‘While  the  present-day  personality  constantly  changes,’ Joshua  continued, ‘the  life  in  it  is the 
Soul. And that part of the personality will continue to live. The perishable will become imperishable 
as life is imperishable, and the mortal will become immortal. The desires, interests, and the thoughts 
serving the desires and emotions of the personality will perish, but not the I-ness  of the personality; 
not the Ego-Self of the personality.’ 
‘Once  again  I  say  to  you, Alaha as Elohim created the material  world  as  one  of  the  worlds of 
existence, of forms, and of the phenomena of life. For this is Alaha’s Will-pleasure. Alaha created the 
material Earth and everything in it, on it, and over it—mountains, rivers, seas, and fertile lands, and 
all the phenomena of life, unceasingly sustaining all its creatures.’ 
‘Everything on Earth, in the world of continuous change, obeying the law of motion, takes its 
course...  whatever  happens,  every  event  gives  rise  to  representations.  These  representations present 
themselves  to  the  human  being  through  his  five  senses,  they  influence  him  and  excite in  him 
sensations. Thus he commences his life on Earth.’ 
‘Alaha has given you everything in abundance to live happily and his greatest gift is the Mind 
Supersubstance as Mind Vitality. Using the Mind as constructive thought, you will unfold in yourself 
your Self-consciousness and Self-Superconsciousness. Using pure Mind as a crystal-clear mirror, you 
will see in it your Divine Self.’ 
‘In a month I will return to you. Meanwhile you must practice daily the exercises in meditation 
and visualization I have given you. Some of you are aware that I am near you. I am. I am with all of 
you always. Shlam aleyhem.’  
Before  sunrise  the  following  morning,  the  two  Yiacoubs  were  in  the  stable  harnessing  the 
horses  to  the  cart.  Joshua,  Ephraim  and  Samuel  were  in  the  temple  for  the  morning  service. 
Yiassounai  by the  incense  burner,  was  reciting  the  Psalms  of  the  Prophet-King  David  in  Greek. 
Stephanos was in the kitchen helping the cooks prepare breakfast and four big baskets of pro visions 
for  Joshua,  Samuel,  Yiohannan  and  the  two  Yiacoubs  for  their  journey.  From the  ovens he  took 
twelve  loaves  of  bread and  twenty-five  hard  boiled  eggs.  These  he  put  in the  baskets with  six large 
loaves of cheese, some salted fish, dried figs, almonds and two clay jars of honey. 
After breakfast Stephanos and Yiassounai loaded the cart. Yiassounai brought from the temple 
gardens fresh, sweet smelling jasmine and basil which he gave to Joshua, Samuel, Yiohannan and the 
Yiacoubs. Joshua and Yiohannan kissed Stephanos and Yiassounai on their eyes and the boys kissed 
the  right  hand  of  the Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel,  asking  for  his  blessing.  And at  sunrise  the  cart,  with 
Yiacoub, the son of Shabbatai, driving, set out for K’far Nahum. 
Yiassounai,  wiping  his  tears  away  on  his  sleeve,  watched  them  out  of  sight,  while  Stephanos 
tried to console him. As the party traveled north Samuel looking back towards Yerushalayim said to 
Joshua, ‘Beloved Rabbi, is not Yerushalayim a beautiful city?’ 
‘My  beloved  Rayis  Rabbi,’ said  Joshua, ‘Yerushalayim  is  a  beautiful  city,  but  the  Israelites 
who  live  there  are  stiff-necked  and  full  of  hatred  for  the  Romans.  They  are  creating  secret, 
underground bands of terrorists, the Zealots, who are murdering Roman soldiers. Soon the Sanhedrin 
will have me arrested in Yerushalayim. They will torture and execute my material body. But in three 
days time I will heal the wounds and resurrect my dead body.’ 
‘In  less  than  a  hundred  years,  the  Israelites  will  declare  war  on  the  Romans  in  the  belief that 
they are strong enough to drive them out of Palestine. And the Romans will burn Yerushalayim. The 
temple  of  Solomon  will  be  razed  to  the  ground.  I  tell  you  no  stone  will remain  on  stone  in 
Yerushalayim.  It  is  not  predestined,  for  nothing  in  this  world  is,  but  everything  follows  its  relative 
cause. And seeing no change in the minds of these stubborn Israelites, I foresee what is going to take 

105 
 
place.  I  have  already  said  this  to  my  Israelite  disciples.’ Joshua wiped  tears  from  his  eyes,  for  this 
vision brought the Son of Man great anguish. 
Then  let  those  who  are  in  Judea  flee  to  the  mountains. Let  him  who  is  on  the  house-top  not 
come down to take anything out of his house. And let him who is in the fields not go hack to get his 
clothes. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those with nursing babies in those days. And pray 
that your flight may not be in winter or on the Sabbath. For then there will be great tribulation such 
as  has  not  been  since  the  beginning  of  the  world  until  this  time,  no,  nor  ever  shall  be. And  if  those 
days  had  not  been  shortened,  no  flesh  would  be  saved;  but  for  the  elect’s sake  those days  will  be 
shortened. (Matthew 24:16-22) 
At sunset the travelers stopped in Bethel at the inn of the Essene, Issahar. Joshua often stayed 
there  on  the  road  to K’far  Nahum  and  he  had  healed  Issahar  of  epilepsy  and  of  open wounds  from 
which he had suffered for many years. 
Departing  before  sunrise  the  next  morning,  they  traveled  all  through  that  day  and  night. Two 
hours  after  sunrise  they  arrived  in  Shekhem  at  the  inn  of  a  Samaritan  Israelite.  While  the two 
Yiacoubs saw to the cart and fed the horses, Samuel, Joshua and Yiohannan had a breakfast of bread, 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  cheese  with  fresh  milk  that  the  innkeeper  provided.  This  was the  first  visit 
Joshua made to Shekhem, as he ordinarily went by way of Sykhar. 
An  eighteen-year-old  Samaritan  waiter  at  the  inn  asked  Joshua  and  Yiohannan  how  he might 
serve  them.  His eyes were swollen with tears. ‘Assaf,’ said  Joshua, ‘I  know  why  you  suffer.  Come 
with  me,’ And  he  led  him  to  a  small  private  room. ‘My  dear  Assaf,’ said  Joshua, ‘your father, 
Hushim, is a leper compelled by the authorities for eight  years now to live in the caves a mile from 
here. Your father’s nephew, also a leper, lives with him in the same cave and in these caves of Ebal 
there  are  ten  other  lepers.  You  and  two  other  young  men  are  permitted  to  go  once a  week  to  leave 
food  and  clothing  for  them  at  a  safe  distance  but  you  must  leave  before  they approach.  From  that 
distance it has been possible for you to talk with them. But now for a month your father has been too 
ill to come out of the cave. Assaf, my dear, let us go to your father, whom you shall kiss now for he is 
healed.’ 
Coming  out  of  the  room  with  Assaf,  Joshua  beckoned  Yiohannan  to  follow.  As  they  walked, 
Joshua spoke to Assaf. ‘You live with your mother, Elisheba, your grandmother and twin sisters, Lala 
and Martha, in a small house with a hallway and two little rooms. This house is unsafe and it leaks in 
the winter rains. Your mother and grandmother work very hard in the vegetable gardens, but there is 
little to spare, and you weep because you know your cousin, Eli, waits for you at the caves, and you 
have nothing to bring them.’ 
‘Rabbi,’ said Assaf bewildered. ‘How is it you know my name? And the names of my family? 
And how did you come to hear of my father’s and cousin’s plight?’ 
‘Assaf,’ said Joshua, ‘I know all these things because you are in my mind and in my heart. You 
cannot understand what I am saying, but from this day your family will be poor no more. Your father 
and cousin will be healthy and strong. You will build in the yard of your house a fine forge for your 
father, and the neighborhood will ring again with the sound of his hammer on the anvil.’ 
At the caves Assaf waited at the usual distance while Joshua and Yiohannan went forward. The 
other lepers were gathered by the wells drawing water. Joshua, entering the cave, found Hushim on a 
pallet with Eli standing near. Joshua knelt at Hushim’s side and took the leper’s hand in his, saying, 
‘Hushim  dear,  open  your  eyes.  You  are  well.  Come,  get  up.  Assaf  is  waiting for you.’ Hushim 
entirely  healed  stood  with  Eli’s help.  Then  Joshua  caressed  Eli’s face  and hands  saying, ‘Dear  Eli, 
take off the bandages from your hands and legs. You have no need of them. You are quite well.’ And 
so he was. Eli too was completely healed.  
The  ten  other  lepers  seeing  Hushim  and  Eli  miraculously  cured,  begged  Joshua  to  heal them 
too, and they too were healed. 

106 
 
As Joshua healed the lepers, he prayed to Alaha, his Heavenly Father. And when they were all 
healed, he stretched out his arms to them blessing them. And then in Greek and Aramaic he thanked 
Alaha for the great Mercy. 
 
Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall 
be comforted. (Matthew 5:4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And he continued: 
  
 
Our Father who art in Heaven, your will is 
done on Earth as it is done in the Heavens, 
(cf. Matthew 6:9-10) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joshua  called  Assaf.  Seeing  his  father  restored  to  health  and  vigor,  the  young  man  clasped 
Joshua’s hand  and  kissed  it. ‘My  dear  Assaf,’ said  Joshua, ‘go  to  your  father  and  cousin  and  kiss 
them.  Then  find  the  Samaritan  Rabbi  in  the  temple  before  going  home.  When  that’s done, come  to 
me at the inn. Nine of the healed lepers were already  gone, but one came to Joshua to kiss his hand 
and thank him. Joshua asked him, ‘Were the other nine not healed?’ 
‘All healed, my Lord,’ he quickly replied, ‘every one of them!’ 
‘My love goes with them,’ said Joshua, ‘into their new life.’ 
When  Assaf  arrived  back  at  the  inn,  he  brought  a  large  clay  bowl  full  of  fat,  luscious  dates, 
which had cost him a week’s salary. ‘My Lord,’ the boy said, ‘I am ashamed that this is all I can offer 
you with my thanks and love.’ 
Joshua  gave  the  bowl  to  Yiohannan  who  passed  the  dates  to  Samuel  and  the  Yiacoubs  until 
they  were  all  gone.  Then Joshua  asked  Yiacoub to  wash  the  bowl  and  return  it  to him  with a white 
napkin from the cart. When Yiacoub returned, Joshua took the bowl and the cloth and asked Assaf to 
come with him again into the small room. 
‘Beloved  Assaf,’ he  said, ‘you  are,  as  I  promised,  no  longer  poor.’ He  handed  him  the  bowl, 
covered with the napkin. ‘Here,’ he said, ‘are Roman silver dalanda and ten Roman gold coins. You 
are  a  rich  man.  There  is  an  empty  house  that  you  can  rent  for  two  months  while  you  build  a  large 
house with an entrance hall and four large rooms. You will build a large forge for your father and 
 

107 
 
behind the house a bath room and cellar. In this bowl there is more than enough. And my love will be 
with you. You must pray to Alaha, thanking him for healing your father and cousin.’ 
At sunrise the following morning, the Samaritan Rabbi in Shekhem came to the inn looking for 
Joshua. ‘Essene  Rabbi,’ he  said, ‘with  the  authorities  in  Shekhem  I  have  seen  the  lepers you  have 
healed. I have heard of you, but it is a great joy to see you.’ 
‘My dear Rabbi Ezekiel,’ said Joshua, ‘I am so glad to see you. Let us go to the temple to thank 
Alaha for healing these good men.’ They went to the temple and together worshipped Alaha, asking 
that Ezekiel might guide the healed lepers to Alaha. 
Three hours after sunrise, as Samuel and Yiohannan waited on the cart for Joshua to join them, 
two lame Samaritans approached. One of them, lame for more than ten years, was the elder brother of 
Rabbi Ezekiel. As Joshua and Ezekiel came towards the cart, Ezekiel was surprised to see his brother 
whom he hadn't seen for many days. Joshua healed the two and climbed on the cart, saluting Ezekiel 
with his right hand. 
Following  the  shortest road  to  En-Gannim  over  the  Ebal mountains,  they  arrived  two hours 
after sunset. One fifth of the population of En-Gannim was Essene and the Essene temple was only 
two hundred yards from the inn of the Essene Aliegar. 
The  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel,  who  was  weary  from  the  journey,  retired  to  his  room  after  supper. 
The Yiacoubs were busy  with the cart and horses.  While Joshua and Yiohannan were talking in the 
sitting room, a four-wheeled cart came to the door. A noble Israelite, after tying up the horses, helped 
his  wife,  who  had  in  her arms  their  three-year-old  son,  down  from  the  cart. The  young  woman  was 
weeping. She carried the boy to the sofa, holding him close. The child was unconscious and suffering 
from convulsions brought on by a very high fever. 
The  young  noble,  who  lived  in  Sykhar,  had  taken  his  son  to  a  Greek  practitioner,  who could 
give  him  no  hope  for  the  boy’s life.  In  despair,  the  young  father  paced  the  room,  while outside  six 
young Israelites drank and sang loudly, only deepening his anguish. 
Joshua  approached  him  gently  saying, ‘My  dear  Naboth,  your  little  son,  David,  will  not  die. 
Only believe in Alaha and his  great mercy.’ To the mother he said, ‘Dear Dina, why do  you weep? 
David is not dying.’ And he took the child’s trembling hands in his, saying, ‘David, wake up. You are 
quite well. You are not ill, my love. Come little angel, play with me.’ 
David opened his eyes smiling at Joshua. Entirely healed, he climbed down from his mother’s 
lap  and  sat  on  the carpet  with  Joshua,  laughing  and  playing.  Naboth  embraced  his little  son. Joshua 
picked  the  boy  up  and  gave  Naboth  a  piece of  white  linen  saying, ‘Go  wipe  the tears  from  Dina’s 
eyes.’ 
The little boy embraced the God-man, kissing him. Yiohannan had brought a cup of warm milk 
which Joshua offered the child. After playing a little while longer with Joshua and Yiohannan, David 
fell  asleep  in  Joshua’s arms  and  Joshua  returned  him  to  his  mother.  Naboth was  eager  to  be  on  his 
way and he asked Joshua how much he  wanted from him for healing David. ‘My dear Naboth,’ the 
God-man replied, ‘didn't you see David embrace and kiss me? David has paid me well. It is enough. 
Naboth, return to Sykhar now. I ask you to be kinder to the people around you to please Alaha.’ 
Early  the  next  morning,  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel  woke  in  excellent  spirits.  Joshua  and 
Yiohannan were in Joshua’s room offering their prayers to Alaha while the Yiacoubs readied the cart. 
After they had breakfasted on fresh milk, boiled eggs, bread and cheese, and Yiohannan had paid the 
innkeeper, they left for K’far Nahum. They went by way of Nain and Magdala traveling steadily for 
two days and nights, and entering the gate of the See at K’far Nahum before sunrise on the third day. 
Is-shaak  greeted  them  at  the  gate  and  helped  the  Yiacoubs  with  the  horses.  Samuel, though 
exhausted  by  the  long  journey,  went  with  Joshua  and  Yiohannan  to  the  temple  for  the morning 
service of worship to Alaha. 
  

108 
 
CHAPTER NINETEEN Our Daily Bread 
[JOSHUA FREES A SLAVE. MATERIALIZES HIS MIND VITALITY AND FEEDS A MULTITUDE. 
TEACHES HIS DISCIPLE-HEALERS ON THE ARCHANGELS AND THE FALLEN ONES. 
CONFRONTS A SANHEDRIN INFORMER.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain 
mercy. (Matthew 5:7) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before the sun rose in K’far Nahum Joshua came to the temple where the novice Is-shaak, standing 
by the incense burner, was reciting the Psalms of David in  Greek.  In the  Holy of Holies, before the 
altar, Joshua offered to Alaha his prayer of adoration. 
The  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel  found  him  there,  and  together they  offered  to Alaha the  morning 
service of worship. After they had breakfasted, Joshua went as usual to the quay, two hundred yards 
from  the  Essene  See, and  boarded the  fishing  boat  of  Shabbatai.  He  stood  alone  there watching  the 
other fishing boats on the Sea of Galilee.  
There  was  a  noisy  commotion  on  shore.  Two  strong  men  were  holding  down  and  beating a 
young man as they pulled away his shirt, baring his right shoulder. A fat man with a leather whip in 
his hand stood by watching this scene. 
The  unfortunate  young  man  was  Kedar,  son  of  a  Bedouin,  and  slave  of  the  man  holding the 
whip. Kedar’s offense was a thwarted attempt to run away from his owner, Madai, a wealthy owner 
of  vineyards  and  livestock  north  of  Bethsaida.  Madai  had  only  one  eye,  having  lost the other  eight 
years before in an accident.  
Joshua  came  down  from  the  boat  and  went  to  where  Kedar  was  struggling  painfully  to  free; 
himself.  He  ordered  that  the  beating  be  stopped.  Madai  approached  the  young  Rabbi  indignantly. 
‘Rabbi,’ he said, ‘this man is my slave. I bought him more than four years ago for fifty silver dalanda 
in the slave market in Tyre. Look, on the skin of his right shoulder blade is my mark. I branded him 
with a red hot iron as I do all my livestock. Until recently Kedar has been a good investment, working 
hard in the vineyards and cow shed. But the last few months he grew lazy, feigning illness and  
 

109 
 
forcing  me to  use  this  whip  on  him.  And  then  three  weeks  ago he  ran  off  right  in the  middle  of the 
harvest. Some friends saw him here in K’far Nahum working like a free man on the fishing boats, and 
here I found him. Kedar is mine, my slave.’ ‘Madai,’ said the God-man, ‘Are not four years of work 
enough for Kedar to earn his freedom?’ Instead of answering, Madai pointed to the brand on Kedar’s 
shoulder. ‘This is my mark,’ he said and this proves this is my slave.’ 
Then Joshua touched Madai on his chest over his heart, and placing his thumb over the empty 
eye socket, he said, ‘Madai, my dear, with two eyes I believe your vision will be better.’ 
And thus was Madai healed. 
Now  caressing  the  bare  shoulder  of  Kedar,  Joshua  said, ‘Madai,  where  is  your  mark?’ Madai 
rubbing  both  his  eyes  with  his  fingers  stared  at  the  smooth,  unblemished  skin. ‘Essene Rabbi,’ he 
said, ‘the things that I heard about you in Bethsaida I did not believe. Now I have seen with my own 
eyes. Forgive me, Rabbi, I am an Israelite,’ he continued, ‘and my father is a Rabbi. Do we believe in 
different Alahas?’ 
‘My  dear  Madai,’ said  Joshua, ‘Alaha is  ONE  and  what  people  believe  does  not  change  the 
nature of the ONE Alaha. You believe as Moses taught, and we Essenes believe in the Alaha of Love 
and of Mercy, the loving Father of us all.’ 
 
 
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain 
mercy. (Matthew 5:7) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bewildered Madai looked at Kedar. ‘I understand, Rabbi, that Kedar is no more my slave, but 
what then is he to me?’ ‘Madai,’ said Joshua, ‘Kedar is your brother. All human beings are children 
of Alaha. You must love one another as brothers.’ 
‘Rabbi,’ said  Madai, ‘This  is  the  time  of  the  grape  harvest.  Tell  my  brother,  Kedar,  to  come 
back to work for me, not as a slave, but as a free man, and I will pay him well.’ 
‘Mara (Sire) Madai,’ said Kedar, ‘your vineyards are the best in Bethsaida, and I should know, 
for I uprooted the old vines that no longer bore fruit and planted new stock. And I love every one of 
them. Yes, I will work for you as a free man. Did you think that your curses and your whip brought 
you a better harvest? I will work gladly in the vineyard I love.’ 
Joshua took the whip from Madai saying, ‘My dear Madai, you have no more need of this. And 
the others, the two you have at home, throw them away too. Kedar will work with you as a free man 
and a loving brother. Alaha will bless you both.’ And so Joshua left them, to heal the others who had 
gathered along the shore. 
Philippos and Nathanael, who lived in Bethsaida and knew Madai and Kedar well, went home 
with  them  in  their cart.  They  were  very  happy  to  see  Madai  healed  and  Kedar  freed.  Madai asked 
them to visit him in his house to tell him more about the teachings of the Essene Rabbi. 
Petros  and  Andreas,  who  were  Shabbatai’s partners,  the  two  Yiacoubs,  Yiohannan,  the 
Canaanite  brothers  Simon  and  Yiohannan,  Lebalos,  and  four  Israelite  disciple-healers  boarded the 
two-master with Joshua. Shabbatai said, ‘Beloved Joshua, today is the third day of the feast marking 
the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt which is celebrated with a fair every year in a place between 
the mountains and the bay, three miles north of Kursi and two miles south of Tel Hadar. I need to go 
to Kursi to buy some new nets. I will leave you on the shore near the fair while I go onto Kursi and 
return late in the afternoon.’ 

110 
 
A  strong  western  wind  was  with  them  and  with  all  sails  billowing  they  crossed  the  Sea  of 
Galilee to its eastern shore. Only an hour after midday the boat anchored in the small bay. All except 
Shabbatai and two hired Essene sailors went ashore with baskets of food for lunch. 
There  they  found  more  than  two  hundred  suffering  men,  women  and  children  waiting  for 
Joshua. As Yiohannan and the Yiacoubs attended to the crowds, Joshua, touching all and offering his 
love,  healed  them.  Then  standing  on  a  flat  rock,  two  feet  from  the  ground,  Joshua  taught the 
multitude about the ‘Kingdom of the Heavens’ through parables. 
Afterwards, seeing that many were hungry and exhausted, Joshua asked Yiacoub what was left 
in the basket. Yiacoub brought the basket saying, ‘Beloved one, all your disciples have eaten, except 
Yiohannan and myself. In the basket are only seven small loaves and some fish.’ 
Joshua told his disciples to ask the people to sit. Yiacoub held the basket and Joshua took from 
it in his right hand a small loaf and in his left a fish, and stretching his hands out towards the sky, he 
said in Aramaic, 
 
Heavenly Father, give us today the bread 
that every day you give us 
 
 
 
 
 
And so for nearly two hours Joshua materialized his inexhaustible Mind Vitality into bread and 
fish. And he said, ‘He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood will have life everlasting as a human 
being.’ 
Then  Joshua  called  his  disciples  to  him  and  said, ‘I  have  compassion  on  the  multitude,’ 
because they have now continued with me three days and have nothing to eat. And I do not want to 
send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way,’ Then his disciples said to him, ‘Where could we 
get enough bread in the wilderness to fill such a great multitude?’ Joshua said to them, ‘How many 
loaves  of  bread  do  you  have?’ And  they  said, ‘seven  loaves  of  bread  and  a  few  little  fish.’ And he 
commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground. And he took the seven loaves of bread and the 
fish and gave thanks to Alaha, broke them and gave them to his disciples; and the disciples gave them 
to  the  multitude.  So  they  all  ate  and  were  filled,  and  they  took  up  seven  large  baskets  full  of  the 
fragments that were left. Now those who ate, were four thousand men, besides women and children. 
(Matthew 15:32—38) 
An hour before sunset they again boarded Shabbatai’s boat, and with a strong wind now  from 
the east, they sailed towards Magdala (Migdal Nunia). For Shabbatai had been unable to find the nets 
he  needed  in  Kursi,  and  the  net  sellers  had told  him  that  they  could  be  found  in the  market  in 
Magdala. 
Early the next morning in Magdala, Shabbatai went straight to the net merchants while Joshua, 
Yiohannan, and the two Yiacoubs went to the Essene temple to see the Essene Rayis Rabbi Abidan. 
The others went off to the market. 
With  the  new  nets  in  hand,  Shabbatai  and  the  two  sailors  returned  to  the  boat.  Joshua, 
Yiohannan, and the Yiacoubs had lunch with the Rayis Rabbi Abidan. And two hours after midday, 
they  were  all  sailing  north-east  from  Magdala  towards K’far  Nahum.  Three  hours  after  sunset  they 
were near Genessaret (Ginossar) and at sunrise the next morning Shabbatai’s boat was tied to its own 
quay.  Joshua  and  Yiohannan  went  to  the  Essene  temple  where  they  found Samuel  and  Is-shaak 
preparing  for  the  morning  service  worshipping Alaha.  Yiacoub  and  his  father  stayed  aboard 
examining the new nets. 

111 
 
Two days later, after the morning service, Joshua learnt that thirty of his disciple-healers asked 
Yiacoub  if they  might  have  a  private  meeting  with  the  God-man.  Joshua  replied  to Yiacoub  that  he 
would meet with them, as usual, for the public afternoon lecture in the synagogue.  At that meeting, 
after  offering  his  worship  prayer,  Joshua said  to  them, ‘Beloved ones, all  of  you, I  see confusion in 
some of you, especially in thirty Israelite disciple-healers among you.’ 
These  disciples  had  asked  Zilpah  to  speak  on  their  behalf,  but  before  he  could  do  so, Joshua 
turned to him saying, ‘Dear Ezer, and that is your real name, for the name “Zilpah”, which you gave 
to Yiacoub nine months ago, is not yours. I have always known who you are. 
You  are  Ezer,  the  son  of  an  Israelite  Rabbi  and  an informant.  You  have  been  reporting  to  the 
Sanhedrin on the activities of the Israelites and Essenes in K’far Nahum and Bethsaida. 
‘In  your  house  in  Bethsaida,  Ezer,  thirty  of  you  Israelite  disciple-healers  have  met  with your 
father and three other Israelite Rabbis. Together you have discussed my teachings at great length and 
criticized and denounced what you consider distortions of the truth. 
‘It  is  your  thoughts,  Ezer,  that  drew  my  attention,  for  your  thoughts  shout  louder  than words. 
The  Israelite  Rabbis,  without  even  knowing  me,  call  me  a “cursed  Essene” and  a “blasphemous 
heretic”,  and  not  one  of  you protested.  You,  who  know  me,  who  have  heard  so  many lectures,  you 
have taken my words and twisted them in your minds’. In Aramaic Joshua said, 
 
Blessed are the poor in evil thoughts: for 
theirs is the Kingdom of the Heavens. 
(cf. Matthew 5:3) 
 
 
 
 
 
‘My dear Ezer, what do you have to say?  
‘Essene Rabbi,’ said Ezer standing, ‘you have called yourself the Son of Alaha and the Son of 
Man.  This  we  cannot  understand.  And  you  have  said  that  all  of  us,  all  human  beings,  are  also sons 
and offspring of Alaha. Who are you? Who are we? How do you differ from us?’  
‘My  dear  Ezer,’ Joshua  replied, ‘all  human  beings  are  offspring  of Alaha-the  sons  and 
daughters  of Alaha.  Did  I  not  teach  you  to  call Alaha “Our  Father”?  You  and  I  as  Spirit-Soul-Egos 
are the same. There is no difference. But as human beings we are different.’ 
‘For you, in the world of existence, have wrapped the humanized part of your Spirit-Soul-Self 
in darkness and in illusion, and you have forgotten who you are in reality.’ 
‘Humanized  as  the  Son  of  Man,  I  am  still  one  with  my El  Shaddai Self  in  the  One-ness  of 
Alaha.’ 
‘Ezer,  you are now thirty  years old. Do  you remember who  you  were before  you  were born?’ 
‘And yet, I know that I  AM THAT  I  AM. I know my Spirit-Ego-Self in the One-ness of Alaha which 
was before the material Earth came into existence; before the hills, the mountains, rivers and seas. I 
know  our  Father Alaha.  I  know  who  I  am.  And  that is  the  difference  between us.  I  know  and  I  feel 
that you are, and every human being is, and has his life in my El Shaddai Selfhood. I know  I am in 
you as you are in me. And I love you.’ 
‘Malpana Rabbi,’ Ezer answered, ‘I cannot understand what you say. I heard what you said at 
the feast in Bethsaida, and at Kursi-Tel Hadar as we spread the loaves and fish among the multitude. 
You said he who eats my flesh and drinks my blood will live eternally. What are we then, Rabbi? Are 
we cannibals?’ 
  

112 
 
‘Ezer, again you distort what I have said. What I said was that he who eats my flesh and drinks 
my blood will have eternal life as a human being. I materialized my Mind Vitality into the bread and 
fish which, when consumed becomes the flesh and blood of a human body. Is my Mind Vitality when 
materialized into bread and fish, not my flesh and blood? This is not all I mean for you to understand. 
I mean that a Spirit-Soul-Ego-Being living on Earth needs my El Shaddai Mind Vitality for his flesh 
and blood and that any Spirit-Soul-Ego to incarnate needs a material body... my flesh and blood. Do 
you understand this, Ezer?’ 
‘No, Rabbi,’ Ezer replied in a ringing voice. 
‘My dear Ezer,’ Joshua said to him, ‘Why did you come to me?’ 
‘Rabbi,’ Ezer  said, ‘We  saw  you  healing  and  working  wonders.  We  came  to  learn  your 
technique of healing; the secret words of power that you use. Instead you give us breathing exercises. 
You tell us we must study how to control and master our desires, emotions, and thoughts in order to 
become masters of Mind and matter. You tell us to visualize and create thought-forms. Who can be 
bothered with all that?’ 
Joshua  said  to  him, ‘Ezer,  seventy  Essene  disciple-healers  have  bothered  with  all  that;  they 
have trained themselves, and now go out in pairs to heal. There are also some Israelites who heal in 
my name. What have they that is lacking in you?’ 
‘Malpana Rabbi,’ Ezer shouted, ‘unless you reveal to us your secret words of power, the words 
you are using to invoke the demons, we will leave the group.’ 
Joshua turned to Yiacoub. ‘These thirty young men are leaving us,’ he said. ‘Let them go with 
my love and my blessing.’ And so they went in loud confusion. 
There were left in the group twenty Israelite disciple-healers and to these Joshua said, ‘My dear 
ones, is it your wish to leave also?’ 
One  spoke  for  all. ‘Most  Beloved Malpana Rabbi,’ he  said. ‘Never have  you  asked  anything 
from us and  you are always  giving, allowing us to live and breathe in your healing aura. Your wise 
teaching  has  transformed  our  way  of  thinking  and  living.  The  life  we  now  live  is  a  better life.  You 
have  taught  us  to  love  and  to  worship Alaha.  There  are  no  words  to  thank  you  enough. We  will  be 
with you always.’ 
Then  Manasseh,  another  Israelite  disciple-healer,  said, ‘Malpana Rabbi,  speak  to  us  of  the 
Archangels and of the Fallen Ones.’ 
‘My dear ones,’ the God-man said, ‘one of the manifestations of Alaha, that the human mind is 
able  to  grasp,  is  the  Life-Light  in  which Alaha in  Its  Omnipresent  One-ness  as Elohim manifests 
Absolute Wisdom in creation. Alaha Elohim is Alaha expressed as the Holy Archangelic Orders, the 
Creators,  the  Lords  of  the  Mind  Vitality  Supersubstance.  They  shape Mind  into  the  phenomena  of 
life. 
‘The Light used by the Holy Ones in the worlds of existence is of seven degrees of luminosity, 
each degree of brightness reverberates a name. Some of the Holy Ones are the Maha-Els (Michaels), 
the  Kha-vir-Els  (Gabriels),  the  Ra-pfa-Els  (Raphaels),  the  Yiu-Ra-Els  (Uriels). They  and  others  are 
working  ceaselessly  in  the  creation  and  maintenance  of  the  material  bodies of  animals  and  human 
beings.  The  Holy  Ones  use their  elementals,  the  angels,  as  nature  spirits for  their  work  in  the 
vegetable  kingdom.  The  Holy  Archangels  can,  as  needed,  materialize  a human  body,  and  this  they 
have done many times. 
‘Most   human   beings   live   instinctively   and   subconsciously,   though   believing   they   live 
consciously.  When a human being raises his consciousness to Self-consciousness—consciousness not 
of  the  personality-self  but  of  the  real  Soul-Ego-Self—and  then  unfolds  Self-Superconsciousness,  he 
can  come  into  Self-conscious  contact  with the  Archangels.  He  will  see  them,  as  well  as  hear  them 
speak  in  his  own  language.  The  Archangels  have  languages  of  their  own,  languages  of  love.  And 
when  a  person  gains  Self-Superconsciousness,  thereby  returning  home—home  to  his  own  nature, the 
nature of the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self—what a great joy it is to his Archangels in the Heavens. 

113 
 
Though  a  human  being  may  wrap  his  personality’s petty  self  in  the  seven  veils  of  darkness—
which are his evil elementals—his Guardian Archangel faithfully protects him. In every human being 
the possibility exists that he may repent and find the strength to cast off the veils of darkness. 
For this reason have I come to the world of existence as the Son of Man, yet remaining in my 
El Shaddai Selfhood, in the One-ness of Alaha. I have humanized myself in accordance with Alaha’s 
Will and by my own free will so that I may lead human beings back to Alaha... lead all human beings 
back to their Divine nature. 
‘All  the  Archangelic  Orders  descend  to  the  worlds  of  existence  through  the El  Shaddai (the 
Logos)  and  through  the  Shekhinah  (the  Holy  Spirit),  manifesting  their  Selfhood  in  the  Oneness of 
Alaha.’ 
The  Fallen  Ones,  whom  you  ask  about,  are  Spirit  Beings  who  thought  they  were  greater than 
Alaha.  This  rebellious  attitude  wrapped  them  in veils  of  darkness.  The  Fallen  Ones  remain in  the 
Omnipresence of Alaha, who has not cast them out, yet they believe they have separated themselves 
from Alaha. 
‘These  demons,  the  Fallen  Ones,  have  access  to  the  material  world,  to  the  world  of  emotions 
(the psychical world) and to the world of thoughts (the noetical world), but they have no access to the 
Noetic worlds and to the worlds beyond.’ 
The Archangels,  who create and ceaselessly  sustain every living thing, forbid the  Fallen Ones 
to take possession of the material body of any plant, animal, or human being. A human being cannot 
be possessed by these demons.’ 
‘However,  these  demons  are  able  to  co-vibrate  with  the  human-in-nature  demons  (humanly 
created  elementals  or  thought-emotion-forms).  The  Fallen  Ones believe  that  they  influence  and 
cooperate  with  the  human-in-nature  demons  in  doing  evil.  They  believe  that the  human  personality, 
which  is  made  of  elementals,  is  in  their  power.  They  are  mistaken.  For  not  all  the  elementals 
composing a human personality are evil. There is always light, a ray at least, piercing the darkness.’ 
The  demons,  wrapped  in  their  veils  of  darkness,  can  create  nothing—not  so  much  as  a worm. 
And  yet  they  believe  that  the  worlds  of  existence,  created  and  sustained  by  the  Holy Archangels, 
belong to them. The Archangels tolerate them, not torturing them with their light. 
‘The seven veils of darkness differ in degrees of obscurity. Those demons wrapped only in one 
or two veils of darkness refrain from co-vibrating with human-in-nature demons in the personalities, 
as they prepare themselves for their return to the Light. Truly, Alaha is Merciful!’ 
‘All the groups of demons have an Archdemon uniting them. Their names are the sounds made 
as their vibrations pass through the veils of darkness. These are the names of some: wrapped in seven 
veils are Ashmotil, Lilithil, Shettinil, Mukuishinil, Yuprutil, Hissuptil, Ishkuptil, and there are many 
more;  In  six  veils  are  Murukil,  Asputil,  Tapuril,  Mamunil,  Tantalionil, Puttashil,  and  many  more. 
Wrapped in  five  veils  are  Tartaril  Tartarinil,  Surkuil,  Iskinil, Firkunil,  Pishatil,  Surikanil, and  many 
more.  In  four  veils  are  Trurpuril,  Firituril,  Ppishkil, Pparukil,  Surruil,  Hissaril,  Turtunil,  and  many 
more.  Wrapped  in  three  veils  are  Talulukil, Talupakkil,  Skartakil,  Furtunil,  Partukil  Surtukil,  and 
many more. Those demons wrapped only in one or two veils seldom produce a sound. 
‘I repeat, no demon from those Fallen Ones can harm the material body of an animal or man, or 
the personality of a human being. Nor can they take possession of a human body or personality. But 
beware  of  those  human-in-nature  demons  you  create.  Beware  of  the  evil  elementals  (thought-forms 
and  emotion-forms  in  your  personality)  you  are  creating  and  beware  of co-vibrating  with  the  evil 
elementals  of  others.  For  these  human-in-nature  demons  have  the power  to  harm,  continuously 
injuring  your  material  body  and  torturing  that  part  of  your  personality  which  is  not  your  real  Self-
Ego.  These  are  the  demons  that  can  take  possession  of your material  body  and  your  personality. 
Beware.’ 
  

114 
 
When an unclean spirit goes out of the man, he goes through dry places seeking rest and finds 
none.  Then  he  says,  I  will  return  to  my  house  from  which  I  came.  And  when  he  comes,  he finds  it 
empty,  swept and  in  good  order.  Then  he  goes  and  takes  with  him,  seven  other  spirits  more wicked 
than himself and they enter and dwell there and the last state of that man is worse than the first. So 
shall it also he with this wicked generation. (Matthew 12:43—45) 
‘When  a  crime  is  committed  anywhere,  in  a  house,  under  a  tree,  a  human-demon  remains in 
that house or enters that tree, influencing those who enter the house and approach the tree. And when 
such a human-demon enters a tree, that tree will bear neither fruit nor seed.’ 
‘Malpana Rabbi,’ said Manasseh eagerly, ‘When you caused the fig tree to wither, I could not 
understand why. Now I see.’ 
Now  in  that  morning,  as  he  returned  to  the  city,  he  was  hungry.  And  seeing  a  fig  tree  by  the 
road, he came to it and found nothing on it but leaves, and said to it, ‘Let no fruit grow on you ever 
again.' And immediately the fig tree withered away. (Matthew 21:18-19) 
‘My  dear  ones,’ Joshua  continued, ‘with the  exercises  in introspection  I  have  taught  you, you 
will  learn  to  enter  consciously  into  your  personality’s present  state,  and  by  studying  carefully  your 
personality’s dispositions,  you  will  understand  the  influence  that  your  elementals, human-in-nature 
angels  or  human-in-nature  demons,  have  upon  it.  You  can disenergize  the  evil elementals  by 
withdrawing  your  attention  from  them  and  the  good  elementals  you  can  strengthen,  even  creating 
new  ones,  by  prayers  to Alaha.  Ask  our  Heavenly  Father  to  lead  you  out  of temptation.  Watch  and 
pray lest you enter into temptation.’ And Joshua concluded saying in Greek and Aramaic: 
 
... and lead us while being in temptation 
and deliver us from evil. 
For yours is the Kingdom and the Power 
and the Glory, forever. Amen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

115 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY Joshua the Great Comforter 
[MARIA RETURNS TO K’FAR NAHUM. 
JOSHUA, THE GREAT COMFORTER, LIFTS A PLAGUE FROM NAIN, AND RAISES A BOY FROM THE DEAD. 
THE HEALING OF LEPERS IN DABRATH. JOSHUA IS TRANSFIGURED ON MT. TABOR. 
MANASSEH BECOMES AN ESSENE NOVICE.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are those who mourn: for they shall 
be comforted. (Matthew 5:4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Every  morning  before  sunrise,  when  Joshua  was  in K’far  Nahum,  the  God-man  went  to  the 
Essene temple. There he found the novice Is-shaak at the bronze incense burner reciting the Psalms of 
David. Joshua entered the Holy of Holies to pray silently to Alaha. He was joined by the Rayis Rabbi 
Samuel, Yiohannan, and the Yiacoubs for the morning service of worship to Alaha. 
One  morning  after  the  service,  as  they  breakfasted  in  the  dining room  of  the  See,  a  cart 
belonging to the See returned from Nazareth with Maria, the White Dove of the Heavens. With great 
joy  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel  greeted  and  welcomed  Maria.  He  told  her  that  Hannah,  a  very aged 
woman, had passed away, and that six newcomers had entered the Homes, raising the number living 
there to two hundred and thirteen. There was grumbling among the care-givers, who were becoming 
exhausted  and  impatient  with  some  of  the  chronically  discontented patients.  Immediately  after 
breakfast Maria took up her duties in the Homes for the ill and the aged. She knew how to calm the 
elderly with kind words and to encourage the care-givers to be more loving and willing to serve. 
Since it was raining, Joshua did not go down to the quay as was his custom, but retired to the 
sitting room of the See with Samuel, Yiohannan and the Yiacoubs. A strong wind violently swept the 
ground of its blanket of yellow autumn leaves.  Heavy clouds hid the sun as the waves of the Sea of 
Galilee washed over the quay. 
A cart drove into the yard and Is-shaak hurried out with blankets to protect the visitors from the 
rain.  These  visitors  included  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Naphtali  of  the  See  in  Nain,  which  was under  the 
jurisdiction of the See in K’far Nahum. 

116 
 
The  travelers  had  breakfast  and  then  came  to  the  sitting  room.  The  Rayis  Rabbi  Naphtali had 
seen Samuel at the Council in Yerushalayim eight months before. ‘Reverend brother,’ said Naphtali 
to Samuel, ‘over the last ten years there have been grave changes in Nain. As you know two thirds of 
our population is Essene. The rest are Israelites, Samaritans and a few Greeks. The Israelites and the 
Samaritans are in continual conflict. The Essenes have honored the instructions that came down from 
our  meeting  in  Yerushalayim  eight  months ago,  and  have avoided  all  arguments  and  confrontations 
with  the  Israelites.  Now  there  are  three  houses  near the  Essene  temple  for  sale  as  their  owners, 
Israelites, have gone to Nazareth. I wish to buy the house adjoining the temple yard, but our See lacks 
the money, so I have asked some Essenes for a loan.’ 
‘My brother,’ Samuel said, ‘I don't think that is necessary. We will buy the three houses. I will 
give you the money you need and accompany you to Nain to see the houses.’ 
‘But no, my dear Samuel,’ Naphtali replied quickly, ‘it is better that you do not return with us 
now. For two months an epidemic has been raging in Nain and many have died. At first, two or three 
people a day, now six or eight. The Greek practitioners have fled with their families. It is the illness I 
remember from my boyhood when hundreds perished.’  
‘What are the symptoms?’ Samuel asked.  
‘Pain  in  the  bowels,’ said  Naphtali, ‘weakness,  high  fever,  diarrhea,  and  vomiting,  usually 
resulting in death.’  
Joshua,  who  had  listened  silently,  now  said  to  Samuel, ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi,  would  you 
allow me to use one of the covered carts belonging to the See tomorrow? I will go to Nain.’ 
‘Beloved Rabbi,’ said Samuel looking at Joshua most lovingly, ‘I know what you are thinking, and I 
will go with you.’ 
The next morning after the service of worship and after breakfast, two covered carts left K’far 
Nahum  for  Nain.  Yiacoub,  the  son  of  Shabbatai,  drove  the  cart  carrying  Samuel,  Joshua and 
Yiohannan. They headed southwest, across the mountains to Magdala, passed Mt. Tabor, and crossed 
the plain beyond. Not long after sunrise the following morning the two carts entered the gates of the 
See of Nain. 
Joshua, Samuel, Naphtali and Yiohannan went straight to the temple. Joshua entered the Holy 
of Holies alone while the others offered their morning prayer to Alaha. 
Then the four went to the open portico of the See looking out over Nain. Joshua stretched out 
his  arms,  extending  his  healing  aura  until  it  covered  the  whole city,  and  gave  his  boundless love to 
Nain, saying in Aramaic, 
 
 
Blessed  are  those  who  mourn:  for  they  shall 
be comforted. (Matthew 5:4) 
 
 
The  God-man  Joshua  said, ‘It  is  done.  No  one  else  in  Nain  will  die  of  this  illness  for  many 
years  to  come. Alaha has  forgiven  their  sins.  Come,  we  shall  visit  the  city.’ And  so  Joshua, 
Yiohannan, Yiacoub and some disciple-healers went down into Nain. 
At the gate of Nain they met four men carrying a coffin. In the coffin lay the body of a fifteen-
year-old Israelite boy. Joshua asked the bearers to set the coffin down and remove the wooden cover. 
The  Israelite  Rabbi,  who  was  accompanying  the  procession,  asked  Joshua  loudly  and  angrily  what 
was going on. Joshua paid him no heed and gently removed the bandages from the dead boy’s hands 
and  feet.  Filling  the  body  with  his  healing  aura,  the  God-man  called the  Soul  to  return  to  its  body, 
‘Young Ztserrah, awake, arise.’ The boy slowly opened his eyes smiled at Joshua. Joshua helped him 
stand and calling his mother said, ‘My dear Zilbah,weep no more.  For  your  son lives. He is healthy 

117 
 
and  strong.  I  know  the  depth  of  the  grief  in your  heart  for  your  epileptic  son.  But  he  is  no  more 
afflicted. He is healed.’ 
Zilbah  took  her  son  to  her  heart  and  kissed  him  through  her  tears.  The  Israelite  Rabbi, who 
knew that it was three days since the boy died, was rubbing his eyes and mumbling in his confusion. 
Without a word the Rabbi departed, and others anxiously followed. 
Some neighbors of Zilbah, who was a widow, whispered to each other, ‘How can it be that this 
stranger knows the names of this poor widow and her boy, who is only a humble farm laborer?’ 
Zilbah’s next  door  neighbor,  a  handicapped  middle-aged  Israelite  man,  whose  left  leg  was 
much shorter than the right, chided them, ‘Knowing names impresses you? Are you not amazed that 
Ztserrah, dead for three days, is alive again?’ Turning to Joshua he said, ‘My Lord, Elijah once raised 
a boy from the dead. Are you, my Lord, Elijah?’ 
One  of  the  disciple-healers  whispered  in  the  lame  man’s ear, ‘He  is  the  Mshiha,  the  Son of 
God.’ And the man fell on his knees crying, ‘Lord, have mercy upon us.’ 
‘My dear Malakhi,’ said Joshua to him, ‘I know what is in your mind... it is for this reason that 
I am here in this city now. I am here because the most Merciful Alaha has forgiven the sins that have 
brought  down  upon  the  people  of  Nain  this  fatal  illness.  Now  all  of  you  must pray  to Alaha in 
thanksgiving. You must stop hating one another. You must love one another. 
Alaha is the Merciful Father of us all. As Alaha has forgiven your sins, you must forgive your 
brothers  and  sisters  who  have  transgressed  against  you.  Hatred,  enmity,  anger,  and  violence  are 
strong  poisons  destroying  your  bodies.’ And  helping  Malakhi  to  his  feet,  Joshua  said, ‘My  dear 
Malakhi, you have no more need of that stick of yours. Your legs are the same now, both strong and 
healthy.’ 
The  boy,  Ztserrah,  fell  to  his  knees,  took  Joshua’s hand  and  kissed  it.  Joshua  embraced  him 
with love, kissing him on his eyes. ‘My dear Zilbah,’ Joshua said to his mother, ‘take your son home 
and give him something to eat.’ 
‘Yes,  my  Lord,’ she  replied, ‘I  have  two  pieces  of  dry  bread.  I  will  soak  them  in  water  until 
they are soft, and he will have them.’ 
‘But  my  dear  Zilbah,’ said  Joshua, ‘the  boy  must have  more  than  that.  Go  home  now.  On the 
table by his bed you will find five large loaves, five cakes of cheese, two clay jars of fresh milk, a big 
bowl of honey, and a basket of dried figs and one of dried grapes.’ 
Joshua  put  his  empty  right  hand  in  the  pocket  of  Zilbah’s apron  filling  it  with  Roman  silver 
denarii. Zilbah, feeling their weight, discovered them there. She held Joshua’s hand in both of hers, 
she kissed it and thanked him for his great love. 
As Zilbah’s neighbors drew near, touching and kissing the wide sleeve of the God-man’s robe, 
he said to them in Aramaic,  
 
 
Blessed are they who mourn: for they shall be 
comforted. (Matthew 5:4) 
 
 
and 
Love those who call themselves your enemies. 
 
  

118 
 
By  the  time  Joshua,  Yiohannan  and  Yiacoub  returned  to the  See  in  Nain,  the  Rayis  Rabbis 
Naphtali  and  Samuel had  already  heard  the  story  of  the  widow  and  her  son. Two  of  the  disciple-
healers  had  reported  to  them  eagerly  all  they  had  seen  and  heard.  Samuel  embraced  Joshua saying, 
‘Most Beloved Mshiha, your love for all is so great. How can we human beings find words to thank 
you, Son of the Almighty, Son of the most Merciful Alaha?’ 
Without a word, Joshua kissed the old white-bearded man on his cheek, went to the temple, and 
there in the Holy of Holies, he thanked his Father, Alaha, for his great Mercy. 
The following morning the Rayis Rabbis purchased the three houses in the neighborhood of the 
Essene temple. All those who had fallen ill in Nain were now fully recovered. 
When the cart was out of Nain, on the return journey to K’far Nahum, Joshua went to a place 
where he could look out over the city. Again he covered Nain with his love and healing aura, that the 
people of that city might realize their great need to love one another. 
The  following  afternoon  they  reached  Dabrath  (Dabaritha),  the  birthplace  of  Rayis  Rabbi 
Samuel, which was situated about a mile from Mt. Tabor. 
In Dabrath Samuel’s mother lived with Samuel’s widowed sister, Ruth. Ruth was the mother of 
the novice Is-shaak. She had another son, Manasseh, a boy of fifteen, and a daughter, Zipporah, who 
was twenty. 
The  travelers  went  to  the  inn  of  Jonah,  who  was  Samuel’s first  cousin.  While  Joshua  and 
Yiohannan went to the sitting room of the inn, and Yiacoub saw to the stabling of the horses, Samuel 
hurried to  the  house  where  he  had  been born.  His  mother,  now  an ancient  woman,  had  taken to  her 
bed,  feeling  exhausted,  but  not  so  weak  that  she  couldn't  show  her  great  pleasure in  seeing  her  son. 
Ruth, Manasseh and Zipporah walked over to the inn to invite Joshua, Yiohannan and Yiacoub to her 
house. 
Yiacoub and Yiohannan enjoyed the company of Manasseh and Zipporah, while Joshua went to 
Samuel’s mother,  Hannah.  It  gave  her  great  joy  to  meet  Joshua.  Ruth  came  in  to  ask Samuel  what 
they would like for supper. ‘Dear Ruth,’ the Rayis Rabbi said, ‘there are three of us and four of you. 
It is too much work for you and Zipporah, who have already toiled a long day on the looms.’ 
A smiling Joshua said, ‘But Samuel my dear, your mother will help Ruth.’ 
‘Our mother?’ said Ruth, thinking she hadn't heard him correctly. 
‘Yes,  of  course,  dear,  your  mother,’ and taking  Hannah’s right  hand  the  God-man  said, ‘Dear 
Hannah,  leave  this  bed  and  get  up.  If  you  want  us  to  stay  for  supper,  you  must  help  your daughter, 
who was so kind as to invite us.’ And Hannah rose and with a sprightly step went to the kitchen and 
worked as if she were a young girl again. 
Samuel spent the night in his mother’s house, while the others retired to the inn. At sunrise they 
went  together  to  the  Essene  temple, which  lay  only  a  hundred  yards  beyond  the  inn. There  they 
greeted  Rabbi  Simeon,  a  second  cousin  of  Samuel.  By  the  incense  burner  Manasseh recited  the 
Psalms of the Prophet-King David. 
Manasseh looked very much like his brother Is-shaak, who was three years his elder. After the 
morning service of worship, Simeon invited the company to his home for breakfast. And while they 
ate,  he  reported  to  Samuel  on  the  state  of  the  Essene  temple  in  Dabrath,  which  was under  the 
jurisdiction of the See in K’far Nahum. 
The population  of  Dabrath  was  five  thousand.  Two  thousand  were  Israelites  and  the  rest 
Essenes.  All  were  poor,  living  off  the  land,  farming  barley  and  wheat,  tending  vineyards,  growing 
fruits and vegetables, and herding sheep, cows, and goats. 
As  poor,  hard-working  farmers  and  herdsmen,  the  Israelites  were  not  much  interested  in 
religious  matters,  and  the  Sanhedrin  had  shown  not  the  least  interest  in  them.  The  Israelites and 
Essenes of Dabrath lived peacefully together, as brothers. 
  

119 
 
Simeon told Samuel of twenty-six lepers who were living in the caves west of Mt. Tabor, about 
a  mile  from  Dabrath.  Once  a  week  Simeon  and  the  Israelite  Rabbi took  them  the food and clothing 
that  they  had  collected  from  the  good  people  of  Dabrath.  Nineteen  of  the  lepers were  Israelite  and 
seven  Essene.  Now  that  winter  was  coming,  the  lepers  would  need  warm clothing  and  woolen 
blankets. Samuel offered to provide money to meet this need. 
But  Joshua  interrupted  the  discussion. ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi,’ he  said, ‘buy  the  blankets if 
you  wish,  but  they  will  be  using  them  in  their  own  homes,  not  in  those  caves.  Tomorrow  I will  go 
with  Simeon,  Yiohannan,  and  Yiacoub,  and  we  will  return  with  the  lepers,  healed of  their disease.’ 
Simeon smiled, but sadly. ‘Malpana Rabbi Joshua,’ he said, ‘I’m afraid you don't  understand. Most 
of  them  are  horribly  deformed  with  wounds  open  for  years  all  over  their  bodies. Their  faces  are  so 
eaten away that even their own kinfolk would not recognize them.’ 
But  the  next  day  after the morning  service,  Joshua,  Yiohannan  and  Yiacoub  followed Simeon 
on foot to the caves. As Simeon waited at a safe distance, the others entered and helped the lepers to 
gather  outside.  Joshua,  with  his  loving  caress,  healed  them  one  by  one.  Then  he called  Simeon  to 
come. Just then the Israelite Rabbi came riding up, as it was the day that the Rabbis were accustomed 
to  come.  Simeon  urged  him  to  come  with  him  to  see  the  miracle. Yiohannan  and  Yiacoub  were 
helping the lepers to wash at the spring that ran out of one of the caves. 
At  noon  the two  Rabbis,  Joshua,  Yiohannan  and  Yiacoub  and  the  completely  healed  lepers 
were in the Essene temple in Dabrath. Together they gave thanks to Alaha, the Merciful Father of all 
human beings. 
On the fifth day of this visit to Dabrath, Petros arrived on a small cart driven by its owner. On 
the sixth day Joshua said to Yiohannan, Petros and Yiacoub that after the morning service he wanted 
to go to Mt. Tabor. And by noon Joshua, Yiohannan, Petros, and Yiacoub were on the mountain top. 
Joshua  mounted  a  six-foot  high,  flat  rock  about  to  pray.  Petros  was  gathering  some  sweet 
smelling herbs while the brothers, Yiohannan and Yiacoub, talked quietly together. Joshua stretched 
his arms towards the sun and said in Aramaic, 
 
 
Our Heavenly Father. Your name is Holy. 
 
 
 
 
As  he  repeated  these  words,  suddenly  the  mountain  was  shaken  with  thunder,  and  huge 
boulders  rolled  down  its  sides.  So  brilliant  was  the light  that  whirled  around Joshua  that  Petros and 
Yiacoub had to cover their eyes with their hands. Only Yiohannan enjoyed looking upon the face of 
his  Beloved  One.  To  the  left  and  right  of  this  swirling  pillar  of  light  appeared  Moses  and Elijah 
speaking to Joshua.  A few minutes later the whirling light entered the material body of Joshua, and 
for several minutes his face shone as brilliant as the sun. 
Now after six days, Joshua took Petros, Yiacoub and Yiohannan his brother, brought them up 
on a high mountain by themselves and was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun and 
his clothes became as white as the light. And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them talking with 
him. Then Petros answered and said to Joshua, ‘Lord, it is good for us to be here; if you wish, let us 
make here three booths (tabernacles), one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah. 
While  he  was  still  speaking,  behold  a  bright  cloud  overshadowed  them;  and  suddenly  a  voice 
came out of the cloud saying, ‘This is  my beloved Son in whom I AM well pleased. Hear him.’ And 
when the  disciples  heard  it,  they  fell  on  their  faces  and  were  greatly  afraid.  But  Joshua  came  and 
touched them and said, ‘Arise and do not be afraid.’ And when they had lifted up their eyes they saw 

120 
 
no  one  but  Joshua  only. Now  as  they  came  down  from  the  mountain,  Joshua  commanded  them 
saying,  ‘Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man is risen from the dead.’ And  his  disciples 
asked him saying, ‘Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?’ Then Joshua answered 
and said to them, ‘Elijah truly is coming first and will restore all things. But I say to you that Elijah 
has come already and they did not know him, but did to him whatever they wished. Likewise the Son 
of Man is also about to suffer at their hands.’ Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them of 
Yiohannan the Baptist. (Matthew 17:1-13) 
Petros, astounded almost beyond words, said, ‘Malpana Rabbi, Moses and Elijah are long dead. 
How could this be? Was it really Moses and Elijah talking to you?’ 
‘My dear Petros,’ said Joshua, ‘Moses and Elijah are not dead. Only their material bodies died. 
The Alaha of Moses and Elijah is not an Alaha of the dead. Alaha is the Alaha of the living.  In the 
Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self  live,  and  will  always  live,  Moses,  Elijah,  Yiohannan  the Baptist  and  other 
human personalities. The Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self is like a golden string, unbreakable and everlasting in 
eternity, strung with the beads of living entities in Alaha’s Divine memory in the eternal Now.’ 
Early in the morning on the next day, after the worship service had concluded, Manasseh said 
to  Yiohannan, ‘Dear Yiohannan, I  want to offer myself to Alaha. Please talk to my uncle. Persuade 
him to let me come to K’far Nahum as a novice like my brother, Is-shaak.’ Yiohannan told Joshua of 
the boy’s request.  As Yiacoub was harnessing the horses for the journey home, Yiohannan spoke to 
Samuel. Samuel went to his sister, Ruth, to ask her for her consent. ‘My dear brother,’ Ruth replied, 
‘Zipporah and I can look after the garden and the vineyard and care for the goats. And with the work 
we  do  on  the  looms,  we  will  have  money  enough  to  manage. With  my  blessing  I  send  my  son, 
Manasseh, to offer himself as a novice to Alaha. I pray to Alaha to bless my sons.’ 
An hour later, after Samuel had given his mother and sister some money, the cart rolled away 
from  Dabrath  with  Samuel,  Joshua,  Yiohannan,  Petros,  Yiacoub  and  Manasseh.  On  the way  they 
stopped in Magdala where Joshua and Samuel visited the Essene temple. While there, Joshua healed 
six invalids. 
Great  was  the  joy  of  Is-shaak  to  see  his  brother,  Manasseh,  entering  the  gates  of  the  See of 
K’far Nahum and still greater his joy to see him two days later wearing the white robe and cap of an 
Essene novice. 
 
  

121 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE Joshua the Merciful 
[JOSHUA, THE MERCIFUL, HEALS THE WARD OF CENTURIAN. HE TEACHES HIS DISCIPLE-HEALERS. 
HIS COMPANION-DISCIPLES ARGUE OVER WHO IS FIRST AMONG THEM.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ask, and it will be given to you. Seek, 
and you will find. Knock, and it will he 
opened to you. (Matthew 7:7) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two days after Joshua returned to K’far Nahum from Nain, he asked Yiacoub to bring together in the 
synagogue  that  afternoon  all  the  healer-disciples  who  were  in  the  area.  After  the  morning  service 
Joshua went down to the quay. It was the last week of October, sunny and bright, and Joshua sat on a 
wooden  bench  looking  out  over  the  Sea  of  Galilee.  Many  people  in  need  of healing  gathered  with 
their  families  along  the  shore.  Yiohannan  came  down  with  Yiacoub  and Shabbatai.  The  father  and 
elder son prepared to set off in their fishing boat, while Yiohannan attended to the steady stream of 
invalids. Joshua healed more than one hundred that morning. 
Afterwards,  as  Yiohannan  was  boarding  the  boat  to  help  Shabbatai  and  Yiacoub  with  their 
day’s work,  an  Israelite  Rabbi from  the  village  of  Sogane,  accompanied  by  two  other  Israelites, 
approached  the  God-man  saying, ‘Malpana Essene  Rabbi,  Claudius  Aquila,  the  Roman  centurion 
headquartered in Korazin and in Sogane, has sent us to you. He has lived with us for two years now, 
protecting  Roman  citizens,  Romans  and  Greeks  alike.  We  are  simple  farmers,  and cattle  breeders, 
who live east of the river Jordan, down from Lake Semakhonitis (Merom), above the Sea of Galilee. 
Bandits,  from  the  north,  are  frequently  raiding  our  village, stealing what  little  we  have,  burning 
homes and crops, and sometimes killing the farmers and their families. Most of the time the centurion 
stays in Sogane. There are only a hundred Israelites families there, and I am the only Rabbi. We are a 
poor, hard-working people, who never had a temple. The Sanhedrin has ignored us.’ 

122 
 
‘Claudius  Aquila  built  a  small  temple,  and  beside  it,  a  spacious  synagogue,  for  us.  He  often 
comes  there  with  Flavius,  the  son  of  his  niece,  to  the  services  of  worship  to Alaha.  And  Flavius is 
learning Aramaic from the Israelite interpreter, who is here with me now. 
‘Malpana Essene  Rabbi,  for  two  months  now  Flavius  has  been  gravely  ill.  The  boy  is  an 
orphan. His father was killed in battle and his mother, the niece of the centurion, died when he was 
fifteen. Claudius Aquila then became his guardian. Flavius now serves him as one of his body guards, 
but he loves Flavius as his own son. 
This  illness  causes  a  very  high  fever,  especially  after  sunset.  He  grows  weaker  and  weaker, 
vomiting  and  convulsing,  and  more  recently  he  has  suffered  from  epileptic  seizures.  The Greek 
practitioner has told his guardian that Flavius will not live more than a day or two. 
‘Malpana Rabbi,’ the Israelite Rabbi beseeched, ‘the centurion believes that only you can heal 
Flavius. The boy lies in a coma in a house here in the eastern quarter of K’far Nahum, not far from 
here.’ 
‘Good-hearted Rabbi,’ Joshua said quickly, ‘let us go to Flavius.’  
As  the  small  party  hurried  across K’far  Nahum,  they  were  met  by  Claudius  Aquila,  who was 
flanked by five sword-bearers. The centurion was weeping.  
Joshua spoke to him gently. ‘My dear Claudius Aquila, pax vobiscum (peace be with you),’  
The centurion stared at the God-man. Joshua, as usual, was dressed in his ankle-length, broad-
sleeved,  snow-white  robe.  On  his  head  he  wore  a  white  cap,  a  symbol  for  purity  of  mind. The 
centurion, sensing the presence of invisible Angelic Beings around Joshua, was overcome with guilt. 
‘My  Lord,’ he  confessed, ‘I  am  an  unhappy  sinner.  In  battle  I  have  killed  many  enemies  of  Rome. 
But Flavius is innocent. He is so young, only twenty, and so loving towards your Alaha and towards 
all human beings. I believe, my Lord, that only your Holiness, with your healing Angels, can heal my 
Flavius. I know my house is unworthy of you. But as I can order my sword-bearers to do my will, and 
they will do it, you can ask your healing angels to save my boy, and he will be healed.’ 
‘Centurion  Claudius  Aquila,’ said  the  God-man  Joshua, ‘your  great  faith  in  that  Absolute 
Authority we call Alaha, and that you know by another name, is rewarded. Go back to Flavius.  You 
will  find  him  standing  in  the  doorway,  strong  and  healthy,  smiling  his  sweet  smile,  eager  to serve 
you. Flavius is healed.’ 
Now  when  Joshua  had  entered K’far  Nahum,  a  centurion  came  to  him,  pleading  with  him, 
saying, ‘Lord, my servant is lying at home paralyzed, dreadfully tormented.’ And Joshua said to him, 
‘I will come and heal him.’ The centurion answered and said: ‘Lord, I am not worthy that you should 
come under my roof. But only speak a word and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man of 
authority, having sword-hearers under me. And I say to this one “Go” and he goes, to another one 
“Come” and  he  comes,  and  to  my  servant “Do  this” and  he  does  it.’ When Joshua  heard  it,  he 
marveled and said to those who followed, ‘Assuredly, I say to you, I have not found such great faith, 
not  even  in  Israel.  And  I  say  to  you  that  many  will  come  from  east  and  west and  sit  down  with 
Ibrahim, Is-Shakh, and Yiacoub in this Kingdom of Heaven. But the sons of the kingdom will be cast 
out  into  outer  darkness.  There  will  be  weeping  and  gnashing  of  teeth.’ Then Joshua  said  to  the 
centurion, ‘Go  your  way;  and  as  you  have  believed  so  let  it  be  done  for  you.’ And his  servant  was 
healed that same hour. (Matthew 8:5—13). 
Cum autem introisset K’far Nahum accessit ad eum Centurio rogans eum, et dicens: Domine, 
puer meus iacet in domo paralyticus et male torquetur. Et ait illi Joshua: Ego veniam et curabo eum. 
Et  respondens  Centurio ait:  Domine,  non  sum  dignus  ut  intres  sub  tectum  meum; sed  tantum  dic 
verbo, et sanabitur puer meus. Nam et ego homo sum sub potestate constitutes habens sub me milites 
et  dico  huic:  Vade,  et  vadit;  et  alii: Veni,  et  venit,  et  servo  meo:  Fac  hoc,  et facit. Audiens  autem 
Joshua miratus est et sequentibus se dixit: Amen, dico vobis, non inveni tantarn fidem in Israel. Dico 
autem  vobis  quod  multi  ab  oriente  et  occidente  venient  et  recumbent cum  Ibrahim  et  Is-Shakh  et 

123 
 
Yiacoub in regno caelorum; filii autem regni eicientur in tenebras exteriores: ibi erit fletus et stridor 
dentium.  Et  dixit  Joshua  Centurioni:  Vade,  et, sicut  credidisti, Et  sanatus  est  puer  in  illa  hora. 
(Evangelium Secundum Matthaeum VIII 5—13) 
And  Joshua  the  God-man  walked  back  to  the  quay  alone,  praying  and  thanking  his Heavenly 
Father. There he found four more invalids waiting for him. These he healed too. 
Meanwhile,  Is-shaak  and  Manasseh  came  looking  for  him  to  tell  him  that  the  Rayis  Rabbi 
Samuel,  along  with  Maria,  Yiohannan,  and  Yiacoub, were  waiting  for  him  to  share  lunch  in  the 
dining room of the Essene See. 
In the sitting room after lunch, Manasseh, in his pure white novice robe and cap, offered Joshua 
a  bouquet  of  jasmine  and  basil.  Kneeling  before  the  God-man,  he  said, ‘Most  Beloved Malpana 
Rabbi, my brother Is-shaak, is allowed to attend your lectures to the healer-disciples. May I also have 
that great honor, and sit in a corner of the synagogue, to hear your teaching?’ 
Joshua helped the boy stand and embracing him, kissed his eyes, saying, ‘Manasseh, my little 
angel,  in  your  white  robe  you  do  indeed  look  like  an  angel,  you  have  now  dedicated  your life  to 
Alaha. Your brother sits behind the pulpit so he will not miss a word. Take this,’ Joshua said handing 
him a snow-white cushion from a corner of the room, ‘and sit beside your brother. Alaha blesses you 
both.’ 
Soon after the boy left, Shabbatai entered bearing a basket of twelve large fish which he gave to 
Samuel. ‘Rayis  Rabbi,’ said  the  gleeful  Shabbatai, ‘our  nets  were  full  this  morning  and these  are  a 
gift  to  you  from  Yiacoub,  Yiohannan,  and  myself.’ To  Joshua  and  Maria  he  said, ‘Joshua,  this 
morning I saw nine of your disciples on the quay seeking Yiacoub and Yiohannan. So I invited them 
all to my house for lunch tomorrow. And I also wanted to invite you and Maria. And I'm sure Rayis 
Rabbi Samuel will honor us with his presence.’ 
The  novices,  Is-shaak  and  Manasseh,  entered  the  sitting  room  offered  the  guests  sweets and 
cakes. ‘Good,’ said Shabbatai to them, ‘dear boys, you too shall come. I'm sure you’d be glad to help 
Myriam  Shalome  and  Yiacoub  fry  the  fish  and  bake  some  cakes.’ He  took  a  bite  and smacked  his 
lips, ‘Cakes just like these.’ Is-shaak and Manasseh eagerly agreed. 
‘My  dear  Joshua  and  Maria,’ Shabbatai  said, ‘How  can this be?  We  are  next-door  neighbors, 
and how long has it been since I've seen you?’ 
‘Not so long,’ said Joshua. ‘Three days ago my mother and I spent the whole afternoon in your 
home.’ 
‘Three days ago?’ said Shabbatai, ‘But three days is a very long time not to see those you love.’ 
Present  at  the  afternoon  meeting  in  the  synagogue  were  Joshua,  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel, the 
Rayis Rabbis of the Essene Sees of Bethsaida and Magdala, eleven of Joshua’s companion-disciples, 
and  eighty  Israelite  and  Essene  healer-disciples  of K’far  Nahum.  The  three  Rayis Rabbis  and  the 
eleven companion-disciples sat on stools on either side of the pulpit, while the eighty healer-disciples 
sat cross-legged on cushions in eight rows before the pulpit. 
All  rose  as  Joshua  entered  with  Is-shaak  and  Manasseh.  The  God-man  went  to  the  pulpit and 
invited  his  disciples  to  be  seated.  With  his  arms  outstretched  and  raised  upward,  he  offered his 
worship prayer to Alaha. 
Then Philippos, to the right of the pulpit rose asking to speak. ‘Most Beloved Malpana Rabbi 
and Master,’ said Philippos, ‘three months ago in Yerushalayim you gave us a lecture on the nature of 
Alaha, the Alaha Elohim, the Logos El Shaddai, the Archangelic Orders, and on the Sepher Yetzirah, 
the book of Creation. Could you please give that teaching to us also, here in K’far Nahum?’ 
‘Beloved  one,’ Joshua  replied, ‘when  I  gave  that  lecture, you  were  not  present.  Your  material 
body  was  in  Bethsaida,  many  miles  from  Yerushalayim.  But  you  are  not  confined  to  your material 
body. You have Self-conscious, out-of-the-body experiences. That day I felt you near me as I spoke. 
You have heard that lesson.’ 

124 
 
‘You  are  right, Malpana,’ Philippos  said  blushing, ‘and  I  tried  to  tell  Nathanael,  Thomas, 
Andreas, and Yiohannan the Canaanite, what you had taught. But I was unable to repeat it entirely or 
plainly. Be kind enough, beloved Malpana, to repeat for us that most enlightening lesson.’ 
And so Joshua taught them. ‘Most beloved ones, all of you. What Alaha is in His Beingness, no 
human  being  living  as  a  material  body,  or  believing  to  be  his  emotions,  desires, or  thoughts,  can 
conceive.  And  yet  a  human  being  can  unfold  in  his  petty  time-and-place  personal  self  his  Divine 
nature,  the  real  Self,  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego,  and  be  in  attunement  with  the El  Shaddai  Alaha (the 
Logos), the Shekhinah (the Holy Spirit), and later in at-one-ment with Alaha Elohim. When he lives 
in Alaha’s One-ness,  then  he  knows. Alaha is  Spirit  and  whoever would  approach  Him  to  worship 
Him must do so in Spirit and in Truth. 
‘Beloved ones, all human beings are Spirit-Soul-Ego Selves, offspring of Alaha. And even your 
petty personal self is created in his image and according to his likeness, and in the image of the Holy 
Archangels, the Creators, and according to their likeness. 
The human being is Alaha’s image and likeness: 
 
‘Alaha in  His  Divine  Beingness,  in  His  multiplicity  in  His  One-ness,  has  billions  beyond 
numbers  of  Beings,  Ego-Selves,  all  similar  to Alaha and  to  each  other.  They  differ  only  in  the way 
they worship Alaha. 
‘Among  these  Divine  Beings  are  the  Dominions,  the  Thrones,  and  the  Principalities. Alaha 
vibrates Its Will-pleasure to manifest Its Self in Its Self as Its total Wisdom and Its Almightiness, and 
the  Divine  Beings,  the  Principalities  co-vibrate,  becoming  Archangels  and classifying  themselves 
according to their Will-pleasure?...their nature? into Archangelic Orders. 
‘These Archangelic Orders, the Creators of the worlds of existence, the Seven Heavens, are the 
Maha-Els,  the  Kha-vir-Els,  the  Ra-pfa-Els,  the  Yiu-Ra-Els,  the  Ra-mi-Els,  the  Kha-ma-Els,  and  the 
Yio-pfa-Els.  The  Shama-Els,  the  Lords  of  the  Mind-matter,  are  neither  Archangels nor  demons.  All 
the  Archangelic  Orders  create  the  bodies  according  to  the  Forms  of  all  the  phenomena  of  life,  and 
then unceasingly sustain them as long as there is life in these bodies. 
‘Two  of  the  defining  characteristics  of  the  Archangels  are  the  everlasting  Absolute  Self-
conscious Life in Alaha’s Omnipresence, and the Infinite, Inextinguishable Light. Both these aspects 
are in Alaha’s eternal Now while co-existing in the worlds of existence. 
‘The  Seven  Heavens  of  the  worlds  of  existence  are:  the  Noetic  state;  the  noetical  worlds; the 
noetical counterparts of the noetical worlds including the noetical planets, moons, suns, galaxies, etc., 
and all that exists in them and on them; the psychical worlds and their ethereal counterparts with all 
the life and colors pertaining to them as phenomena of life there; and everything in the gross material 
world  and  its  ethereal  counterpart  and  all  phenomena  of  life. Alaha  Elohim, Alaha  El Shaddai 
(Logos), Alaha  Shekhinah (Holy  Spirit),  and  the  Holy Archangels,  the  Creators,  in  the  Divine  One-
ness  of Alaha,  use  Mind  to manifest  the  Life-Light in  seven  states,  seven  ways  of  existing,  in  all 
phenomena of life. 
‘Alaha’s Light is manifested in the worlds of existence, the worlds of duality, in seven states of 
luminosity, both in the Divine state and in the mundane state: in the Divine state as Life-Light; and in 
the mundane state in the world of existence it gives the phenomena of life seven states of awareness, 
of sensitivity, and of sensibility. 
‘The  Holy   Archangels  of  the  Elements,  in  the  total  Wisdom  of Alaha,  use  the  Mind 
Supersubstance  Vitality  as  Light-Vitality  to  give  Forms  their  material  appearance  in  the  gross 
material world, and light bodies substance in the higher and more real worlds of existence.’ 
  

125 
 
Yiohannan  the  Canaanite  asked  to  speak. ‘Beloved Malpana,’ he  said, ‘we  human  beings are 
phenomena of life. We differ from the animals only in having the human form. Each kind of animal, 
as a phenomenon of life, has its own form. All phenomena of life in the animal kingdom have a form: 
flesh, bones, blood, and skin. Animals have also eyes, ears, and other sensory organs. You say we are 
offspring of Alaha. Are not the animals also? You say that Alaha, and the Holy  Archangels, created 
human beings  
 
 
 
Bat-Salmaynu-Kidmuthenu /  in His image and according to His likeness. 
 
But how can we know that?’ 
‘My  dear  Yiohannan,’ the  God-man  replied, ‘the  Holy  Archangels  create  by  providing Forms 
with  the  Mind  Vitality,  transmuting  Mind  into  matter  and  substance.  Using  the  human Form,  the 
Holy Archangels create human bodies, and sustain them, in the same manner they create and sustain 
the bodies of all the animals. But a human being is not his bodies. He is a Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self, the 
image of Alaha. Part of the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self creates, with the help of his Metathronios Guardian 
Archangel (who is ego-fied to the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self), a time-and-place personality, which retains 
within  it  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self.  And  so  the  personality of  a  human  being — the  sum  total  of  its 
emotions and  thoughts — living  in  its  material  body  in the  worlds  of  existence  is  dual:  on  the  one 
hand, Divine and immortal and on the other hand, earthly and mortal, or continuously changing. 
‘In  Yerushalayim  I  described  a  line  as  a  symbol  for  the  human  being.  Every  line  has  two 
opposite  endpoints.  It  also  has  a  midpoint,  which  may  not  be  visible.  So  a  line  is  the  symbol of 
everything existing. For a human being, the unseen middle of the line (and the line as a whole) is the 
Omnipresent Alaha,  the El  Shaddai,  and the Shekhinah.  The  right  side  of  the middle  represents  the 
immortal real Self, the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self. To the left are: a) The Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self, also, b) The 
time-and-place  personality  and,  c)  The  three  bodies  with their  etheric  doubles.  Also  present on  the 
left side are the Holy  Archangels of the Elements, sustaining the bodies with Mind Vitality.’ Joshua 
then drew a line on a blank leather scroll with pointed charcoal. 
‘When the gross material body dies, the 
personality  of  a  human  being  remains  in its 
psychical and noetical bodies (2 and 3), in its 
shell-hell or its shell-paradise according to the 
nature  of  the  elementals  composing  it.  At the 
point  of  a “second  death”,  the  personality 
casts off the body of emotions, and remains in 
the  noetical  body for  some  time  (longer  or 
shorter   than   the   time   lived   in   the gross 
material   body)   until   it   reincarnates. That 
personality’s Holy  Archangels  (who  are the 
same Beings that stay with it throughout its incarnations) then provide new bodies, while its Guardian 
Archangel (the same ego-fied Metathronios throughout its incarnations) continues to guide it, helping 
it   to   cast   away   wicked   elementals   and   to   unfold   within   itself   the   Spirit-Soul-Ego   Self-
Superconsciousness.  The continuously  changing  mortal  personality  ego will  again  become  the 
immortal Ego Spirit-Soul-Self, the real Self.’ 
 
 
 

126 
 
 
 
In the Kingdom of our Father Alaha 
 
‘In  the  Kingdom  of  our  Father Alaha are  many  Heavens  in  which  Divine  Beings  are  in  the 
Omnipresent One-ness of Alaha. There are Beings, beyond any number, who are Superconscious in 
their Divine Selfhood, and dwell in the everlasting  Blessedness of  Life-Light-Bliss. These immortal 
Beings are the Dominions, the Thrones, and the Principalities.  
From all points of view they are the same, except in the way in which they adore and worship 
Alaha. No human being in the material world can have any knowledge of these Divine Beings.  
‘Vibrating His  Will-pleasure to manifest Himself in Himself, Alaha causes the co-vibration of 
His  Will-pleasure  in some  of  the  Beings  of  the  Principalities.  This  co-vibration  causes  the Mind 
Supersubstance to emanate from these Divine Beings as it emanates from Alaha Himself.  
‘Alaha’s Will-pleasure  to  manifest  Itself  in  Itself,  as  Its total  Wisdom  and  Almightiness, 
presents Alaha as the Alaha El Shaddai and the Alaha Shekhinah. The Alaha El Shaddai, in the dual 
worlds of existence, gives to the Archangels and to human beings their separate Selfhood. It classifies 
the  Archangels  into  Archangelic  Orders,  and  gives  part of  the  real  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self the  human 
personality’s petty  time-and-place  self.  The Alaha  Shekhinah,  in  the  worlds duality,  the  worlds  of 
existence,  gives  to  the  phenomena  of  life  all  states  of  awareness  and  all states  of  the  Life-Light  in 
degrees  of brightness.  These  degrees  of  Divine  Life  luminosity  are: sensitivity,  sensibility,  instinct, 
subconsciousness, consciousness, Self-awareness (or Self-consciousness), and Self-
Superconsciousness. 
‘The worlds of existence, the seven Divine and mundane Heavens, are the House of our Father 
with many mansions; the Kingdom of the Heavens, where the Creators and their creatures dwell. The 
Holy Archangels, the El Shaddai, and the Shekhinah are the Creators of all the phenomena of life in 
the  vegetable  and  animal  kingdoms.  They  give  life,  sensibility  and  sensitivity  to  the  animal  and 
vegetable  kingdoms  and  to  animals  also  instinct.  No  animal,  however, is  a  Soul,  manifesting  a 
Selfhood. 
‘In a human being, the bodies are created and sustained by the Holy  Archangels and Alaha as 
the El Shaddai and the Shekhinah. The human personality is the time-and-place image of the Spirit-
Soul-Ego.  It includes part of the Spirit-Soul-Ego as well as the ego-fied Metathronios, the Guardian 
Archangel,  the El  Shaddai’s Selfhood,  and  the Shekhinah’s consciousness.  All  phenomena  of  life, 
including human beings and the Archangelic Orders, are both Logoic and Holy Spiritual. The human 
personality,  and  the  Spirit-Soul’s  incorruptible Life-Light  body,  have  the  human  form,  though  the 
Spirit-Soul-Ego can take any form it chooses. 
‘I  repeat,  the  worlds  of  existence — the  noetical  worlds  of  thought,  the  psychical  worlds  of 
emotions, with their etheric doubles, and the gross material world with its etheric double — are worlds 
of  duality.  The  human sense  organs  collect  impressions  of  all  that  surrounds  them,  presentations  of 
the  manifold  work  of  the  Holy  Archangels.  The  human  beings,  getting  through  the sense  organs  of 
their material bodies the presentations of everything the Holy Archangels have created in the world of 
matter, subconsciously use Mind Vitality, granted to them by Alaha, and create in their personalities 
representations  of  what  their  senses  have  conveyed,  thereby  creating  elementals.  These  elementals, 
created of formless living Mind Vitality Supersubstance, are living entities enabling the personality to 
remember forms.’ 
‘The  elementals  created  by  the  personality  of  a  human  being  compose  the  personality  of that 
person.   These   elementals—good   or   wicked,   either   human-in-nature   angels   or   human-in-nature 
demons—influence the personality’s nature and subject it to perpetual change.  

127 
 
‘The human Life-Light Form of the Spirit-Soul is non-dual. This body, if we can call it a body, 
is incorruptible, never changing its nature. It can, however, take any form the Spirit-Soul-Ego living 
in it chooses, even appearing in the Spirit world, in the seventh Heaven; but it will always return to its 
human form, The Archangels, one from each of the seven Archangelic Orders, create and sustain the 
gross  material body,  using  the  etheric  double  as  the  mold  of  the  body  construction,  and  as  the 
storehouse   of  etheric   Vitality.   As   a   human   being   is   born  and   grows,   the  Holy   Archangels 
continuously  change  the  shape  of  the  mold,  the  etheric  double,  so  that  the  body  can  change  in 
appearance.  The  material  body  of  a  human  being,  and  its  etheric  double,  are  under  the  control and 
care of the Holy Archangels. 
‘On  the  etheric  double,  and  on  the  gross  material  body,  there  are  centers  of  Vitality,  Mind-
energy. The centers on the etheric double coincide with certain organs in the material body. Through 
these seven centers the Holy Archangels create and sustain the body. 
‘For  the  health  of  your  material  body,  the  Archangel  Maha-El,  whose  color  is  red,  uses Mind 
Vitality as warm sunlight energy and heat to enrich the food you eat. Kha-vir-El, whose color is sky-
blue, uses the element of life-giving water for  you to drink. Ra-pfa-El, with his violet light, fills the 
air you breathe with his Mind Vitality. Together the Archangels work to give your bodies the warm, 
red blood that runs through your arteries and veins to all your vital organs. With your blood, which is 
their blood, the Holy Archangels sustain your bodies. 
The pulse of life, which you feel in your material heart, throughout your material body, and its 
etheric double, is given  you by Alaha: the El Shaddai and the Shekhinah. Feel Alaha and keep Him 
always Self-consciously in your heart. 
‘All  the  other  Archangels  cooperate  with  Maha-El,  Kha-vir-El,  and  Ra-pfa-El  for  your  well-
being. Thank them for their love. 
The Holy Archangels will not interfere with the behavior of the personality that lives within the 
bodies  they  look  after,  for  freedom  is  the  nature  of Alaha.  But  they  do  experience  grief and  joy 
according to your behavior. No matter how sinful a person is, he is your brother, for Alaha is in him 
as  the  pulse  of  life.  You  must love  all  human  beings  even  those  who call  themselves  your  enemies, 
for they are in the greatest need of your love.’ 
You  have  heard  that  it  was  said,  You  shall  love  your  friend  and  hate  the  one  calling  himself 
your enemy,’ But I say to you, love those calling themselves your enemies, bless those who curse you 
and  do I  good  to  those  who  hate  you  and  pray  for  those  who  spitefully  use  you  and  persecute  you; 
that you may be sons of your Father in the Heavens; for He makes his sun rise on the evil and on the 
good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward 
have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet your brethren only, what do 
you do more than I others? Do not even the tax collectors do so? Therefore you shall be perfect, just 
as your Father in Heaven is perfect, if you love also those calling themselves your enemies,  
(cf. Matthew 5:43-48) 
Tomorrow  afternoon  I  go  to  Yerushalayim.  I  will  return  to K’far  Nahum  in  ten  days’ time. 
Meanwhile  do  the  exercises  I  have  given  you  twice a  day,  and  each  night  before you  sleep  practice 
introspection and visualization. Shalom! 
The next morning, after the worship service, Joshua went to the quay. The novices served the 
Rayis Rabbi Samuel, and his two guests, breakfast, and then asked a maidservant of the See to tend 
Samuel while they went to the house of Shabbatai to help Myriam Shalome prepare the midday meal. 
When Joshua and Yiohannan came up from the quay, where they had healed more than thirty, 
they could smell the fish the novices were frying and the bread baking in the oven. 
By  the  time  the  other  companion-disciples  arrived,  the  tables  were  laid  in  the  yard,  under fig 
trees heavy with ripe fruit. On the tables were large clay bowls piled with figs. 
During  the  lunch  they  all  drank  the  sweet,  red  wine.  Petros  said, ‘I  am  the  eldest  of Joshua’s 
disciples, the first and the best. I shall be nearest him in his Kingdom of the Heavens and, next to me, 
shall be my brother Andreas.’ 

128 
 
 
The  others  hearing  this  were  disturbed  and  some  began  muttering.  Here  and  there  arguments 
broke  out.  Joshua  was  silent.  Myriam  Shalome  said  to  Petros, ‘Forgive  me, Petros,  but you  are 
mistaken.  Surely  nearest  to  Joshua  in  his  Kingdom  of  the  Heavens  will  sit  his  cousins, my  sons, 
Yiacoub and Yiohannan.’ Calling her sons, she took them to Joshua. ‘My dear Joshua,’ she said, ‘as 
your  aunt  by  blood,  I  ask  you  to  put  your cousins  by  blood  beside  you  in  your Kingdom  of  the 
Heavens;  Yiacoub  on  one  side  and  Yiohannan  on  the  other. Yiohannan  listened to  her,  smiling 
silently.’ 
The other disciples gathered around Joshua, and one of them said, ‘Beloved Malpana, which of 
us shall be first in the Kingdom of the Heavens?’ 
At that time the disciples came to Joshua saying, ‘Who then is the greatest in the Kingdom of 
Heaven?’ And Joshua called a little child to him, set him in the midst of them and said.’ Assuredly, I 
say  to  you, unless  you  are  converted  and  become  as  little  children,  you  will  by  no means  enter  the 
Kingdom  of  Heaven.  Therefore  whoever  humbles  himself  as  this  little  child  is  the greatest  in  the 
Kingdom  of  Heaven.  And  whoever  receives  one  little  child  like  this  in  my name receives  me.’ 
(Matthew 18:1-5) 
Then he came to K’far Nahum. And when he was in the house, he asked them ‘What was it you 
disputed  among  yourselves  on  the  road?’ But  they  kept  silent,  for  on  the  road  they  had  disputed 
among themselves who would be the greatest. And he sat down, called the twelve and said to them, ‘If 
anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all.’ (Mark 9:33-35) 
After lunch Joshua asked Yiacoub to prepare the covered cart for the journey to Yerushalayim 
and he thanked Shabbatai and Myriam Shalome for their hospitality. 
When  the  cart  left K’far  Nahum  for  Yerushalayim  early  that  afternoon,  Yiacoub  son  of 
Shabbatai  was,  as  usual,  driving.  With  Joshua  traveled  Yiohannan,  Yiacoub  son  of  Yioussouf, 
Philippos, Nathanael, Petros and Andreas. 
 
 
  

129 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO  The Loving and Forgiving God-Man 
[TRAVELING TO YERUSHALAYIM, JOSHUA IS AMBUSHED. 
INSTRUCTS HIS DISCIPLE-HEALERS IN YERUSHALAYIM. 
CONFRONTS A SANHEDRIN INFORMER ON THE MATTER OF TAXES. 
FORETELLS HIS DEATH AND THE FALL OF YERUSHALAYIM. 
TEACHES AND HEALS.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lord your God with all thy heart and with all thy Soul and with all thy mind and thou shalt love all 
thy fellow men as thyself. (Matthew 22:37,39) 
 
Yiacoub  drove  through  the  night,  a  soft autumn,  moonlit  night  with  a  gentle  breeze  that carried the 
music of sheep bells. The air was fragrant with rich scents from the fields and from the Sea of Galilee 
to the east. 
The  cart  entered  the  gate  of  the  inn  in  Magdala  about two  hours  after  sunrise. The innkeeper, 
Issakhar, an Essene and a dear friend of Yiacoub, was overjoyed to see the God-man, Yiacoub, and 
the others. 
While Yiacoub tended to the cart and horses, Joshua and Yiohannan went to the Essene temple 
which stood but a hundred yards from the inn. After their prayers, Joshua and Yiohannan came out of 
the temple to find, waiting for them, a lame boy of fifteen; his right leg atrophied and several inches 
shorter than the left. This was the young nephew of the Rayis Rabbi of Magdala. 
  

130 
 
‘Rabbi,’ said the boy, ‘my uncle is away in K’far Nahum. But we expect him any moment. His 
house is very near the temple, and I will show you the way if you like to see him.’ 
Joshua  said  to  him, ‘My  dear  Simon,  we  were  with  your  uncle  yesterday  at  the  See  in K’far 
Nahum. We know he is expected soon, but we can't wait. Give him our love.’ And Joshua embraced 
the boy, caressing the lame leg with his right hand saying, ‘My dear Simon, you have been lame for 
ten years, since you were five. I think that’s long enough. With great difficulty you have been helping 
your uncle clean and care for the temple. Now you are healthy and strong, and no longer need those 
crutches.  Now  you  can  walk,  Simon.’ And  so  Simon  walked away  and,  returning  to  Joshua,  said, 
‘Rabbi, am I dreaming?’ 
Again  Joshua  embraced  him,  kissed  his  eyes,  and  said  to  him, ‘No  Simon,  you  are  not 
dreaming.  You  are  no  longer  lame.  But  Simon,  you  must  never  again  curse Alaha.  Oh,  I  know you 
help your uncle to please him, and he gives  you some coins, but what is in your heart? When in the 
Essene  High  School  prayers  are  offered  to Alaha,  our  Merciful  Father,  you  are reluctant  to  recite 
them. Alaha does not need human prayers, it is rather the human beings who need His blessings, and 
those praying to Alaha and believing in Him, will have them.’ 
Simon, with tears in his eyes, knelt before Joshua, taking his hands and kissing them. ‘Dearest 
Rabbi,’ he pleaded, ‘will you ask Alaha to forgive me?’ ‘Dear Simon,’ said Joshua, ‘I will see you in 
eight or ten days when I pass through Magdala returning from Yerushalayim.’ 
After lunch at the inn of Issakhar Joshua and his disciples set out for Hammath, following the 
route along the coast. They rode through the day and through the moonlit night, and at sunrise arrived 
in  the yard  of  the  inn  belonging  to  a  good-hearted  Israelite, Dan,  who  could  scarcely  contain  his 
pleasure  and  excitement  at  seeing  Joshua.  His  plump wife  bustled  about  serving  their  guests  a 
breakfast of bread, cheese, hard-boiled eggs, milk, honey, olives, and figs. After breakfast Joshua and 
his disciples gathered in the living room and, while Yiacoub saw to the horses and cart, they healed 
all who had come to be restored to health. 
At noon the company took lunch at the inn of Dan and afterward departed for Bethabara, where 
they arrived at midnight and rested for two hours before setting off southward to Bethania, east of the 
river Yiardna.  
It was an hour after sunrise, just as the Rayis Rabbi Zakharias was entering the Essene temple 
for  the  morning  service  of worship  to Alaha,  when  the  cart  came  to  the  gate  of  the Essene  See  of 
Bethania.  Joshua,  Yiohannan,  Petros,  Andreas,  Philippos  and  Nathanael  followed the  Rayis  Rabbi 
into the temple. Yiacoub took the cart to the stables. The Rayis Rabbi Zakharias was delighted to see 
the Messiah in Bethania. 
Before  the  service  of  worship  began  Joshua  recited  his  worship  prayer  to Alaha.  After  the 
service  the  Rayis  Rabbi  invited  Joshua  and  his  disciples  to  join  him  for  breakfast.  Zakharias’ wish 
was  to  have  Joshua  stay in  Bethania  for  several  days,  but  Joshua  said  that  he  must  travel on  to 
Yerushalayim. He agreed to stay for lunch. Before lunch Joshua healed many whom the Rayis Rabbi 
Zakharias had brought to him. 
Two  hours  after  lunch  they  were  crossing  the  Jordan,  visiting  the  places  where  Joshua’s first 
cousin  by  blood,  Yiohannan  the  Baptist,  had  baptized  the  multitudes,  and  the  place  where Joshua 
himself had been baptized. Soon they were on the road west of Bethany toward Jerikho. 
It  was  an  hour  before  sunrise  and  they were  approaching  Jerikho,  south  of  Mt. Quarantania, 
when three men rode out of the bushes. One was middle-aged and the others very young. The older 
man dismounted and, in a stern voice, ordered Yiacoub to halt. Yiacoub pulled the horses in. Joshua 
told his disciples to stay in the cart and be still. He climbed down, taking the lantern, which hung at 
the back of the cart. Joshua approached the man who was standing to the right near the horses. The 
light of lantern reflected off the God-man’s white robe and illuminated the scene. The younger men 
had, by now, also dismounted. 

131 
 
Joshua  addressed  the  older  fellow,  who  was  looking  at  him  in  some  confusion. ‘My  dear 
Ezekiel,’ he  said, ‘you  were  a  very  good  man,  and  your  father,  Rabbi  Solomon,  had  reason  to  be 
proud of you. After your father passed over to Alaha, your mother, Hannah, lived with you and your 
wife,  Judith.  When Judith  passed  away,  your  mother  cared  for  your  two  sons:  David  a  boy of  eight 
and  Abel,  six.  But  now  your  mother  is  very  old  and  can  no  longer  work.  And  so  if  you are  killed 
today, stopping a cart full of men much stronger than you, and perhaps much more skillful with their 
daggers—this is possible, Ezekiel, is it not? — who then will care for your aged mother and your young 
sons?’ 
‘You were once a skilled carpenter, making a good living. Alaha blessed you. Now look at you. 
What sort of an example are you setting for your nineteen year-old nephew, Solomon, standing there 
behind you and for his friend, Yiacoub? Young  Yiacoub has been with you for three months, but is 
wisely thinking about leaving you both. 
‘Remember four years ago, Ezekiel, at the fair in Jerikho, when you quarreled with three other 
men, all of you drunk on wine and out of your senses? You drew your dagger and stabbed one, from 
behind,  in  his  shoulder.  Then  that  man’s brother  hit  you  on  the  head  with  a  heavy, wooden  stool. 
That, Ezekiel, is how you lost your right eye.’ Ezekiel wore a black patch over his right eye secured 
with a black ribbon. 
Solomon approached in great confusion, gazing at Joshua with wide eyes. Joshua  handed him 
the lantern and put his left hand on the left shoulder of Ezekiel as, with his right hand, he untied the 
ribbon and removed the patch. Joshua placed his right thumb on the empty eye socket and, taking a 
deep  breath,  materialized  a  healthy  eye.  Dumbstruck,  Ezekiel  gazed  at  the  God-man with  two  good 
eyes. 
To each of the men Joshua handed a small, white linen bag saying, ‘My dear Ezekiel, Solomon 
and Yiacoub, you will find in the bags denarii enough to begin your new lives. You will also find in 
each a strip of white leather on which is written in Aramaic: 
 
 
 
Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy Soul and with all thy mind. Thou 
shalt love your fellow men as thyself. (Matthew 22:37,39) 
 
‘Dear  ones,’ said  Joshua, ‘your  sins  have  been  forgiven  and Alaha,  the  most  Merciful Father, 
will bless you. Keep the inscribed pieces of leather and keep the words in your hearts and minds.’ 
‘Most reverend Rabbi,’ said Ezekiel, ‘Who are you? You must be a prophet, for you know our 
names and the names of others near to us, living and dead. You know our whole story. And you work 
miracles. When you came down from the cart, you had in your hands only that lantern. Where did the 
bags come from?’ ‘Dearest ones,’ said Joshua to the bewildered men, ‘I AM the One who loves you. 
You are in my Selfhood.’ 
  

132 
 
Solomon knelt before Joshua and said, ‘My Lord, I remember my grandfather, Rabbi Solomon, 
telling me that the Messiah is coming. I need not ask who you are, for you are the Messiah. Forgive 
us our Lord.’ 
Joshua embraced him and said to him, ‘My dear Solomon, when your grandfather lived among 
you,  you,  as  a  boy,  thought  about  dedicating  yourself  to Alaha.  Do  it  now,  Solomon.  Be a  good 
Rabbi. I will be with you and you will feel me near you. Go now in peace. Shalom.’ 
Ezekiel took Joshua’s right hand to kiss it, and tearfully he thanked him. Joshua blessed them 
all as they mounted and rode away. 
Dawn colored the eastern horizon. A cock crowed and soon others joined him. In the distance a 
dog barked. The two Yiacoubs drove the cart and talked about what they had just seen and heard. All 
the  other  disciples  were  eagerly  exchanging  impressions  and  questions (except  Yiohannan  and 
Philippos,  who  were  able  to  extend  their  Self-consciousness  out  of  their bodies  and  so  were  well 
aware of what had transpired). 
As  the  sun  rose  that  morning,  they  stopped  at  an  Essene  inn  in  Jerikho  where  they  took 
breakfast. In less than an hour they were on the road again. In the afternoon they came to the house of 
Maria, Martha and Eliezar in Bethany. Joshua, Yiohannan and the two Yiacoubs stopped there for the 
night. 
Four  years before, when Joshua was teaching and healing in the Essene See in Yerushalayim, 
Maria  had  come  to  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim  in  Yerushalayim  for  instructions.  Maria was  now 
administering and teaching in the Essene junior school in Bethany. 
Maria’s father,  an  Essene  Rabbi  in  Bethany,  was  a  widower  and  when  he  passed  away  to 
Alaha,  Maria,  a  girl of  twenty,  assumed  the  care  of  her  sister  Martha,  two  years  younger,  and her 
brother Eliezar, a paralytic boy of sixteen. 
Maria was thirty, six years older than Joshua, when she saw the God-man healing in the yard of 
the  Essene  synagogue  in  Yerushalayim. There  she  had  witnessed  the  healing  of  a  paralytic,  much 
more  crippled  than  her  brother.  She  asked  Joshua  if he  could  heal  Eliezar,  should  it  be  the  Will  of 
Alaha. On that very day Joshua had gone to the house where they were staying and healed the boy, 
and from that hour Joshua was their Beloved One.  
Ten days later, Joshua healed their next-door neighbor Simon, who had for many years suffered 
with leprosy.  
It was that Maria who anointed the feet of the Lord Joshua with fragrant oil and wiped his feet 
with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick. (John 11:2) 
To the great joy of the family, Joshua and Yiohannan paid them frequent visits. Martha was a 
skillful weaver and Eliezar, who was able to do light work now, was a dressmaker.  
As  Bethany  was  only  about  a  mile  east  of  the  Essene  See  in  Yerushalayim,  the  travelers  left 
early and reached their destination by sunrise.  
Accompanied  by  Petros,  Andreas,  Philippos  and  Nathanael,  Joshua  and  Yiohannan  went 
immediately  to  the  temple.  Philippos,  seeing  Yiassounai reciting  Psalms  in  Greek  near  the incense 
burner,  rushed  to  embrace  him  and  together  they  went  to  Joshua  and  Yiohannan.  The Rayis  Rabbi 
Ephraim  came  into  the  temple  with  Stephanos,  and  before  the  morning  service, Joshua recited  his 
worship  prayer  to Alaha. Ephraim  had  not  been  feeling  well  for  several  days, and  after  the  service 
Joshua healed him. 
On the request of the Rayis Rabbi all joined him for breakfast save for Yiassounai who went to 
Joshua’s rooms  to  check  again  that  everything  was  in  good  order.  Joshua  excused  himself  after 
drinking  a  bowl  of  warm  milk  and  went  to  his  rooms,  where  he  found  Yiassounai  replacing  the 
flowers in a clay jar with more fragrant ones. Joshua patted the boy’s head with his right hand saying, 
‘Yiassounai, to what extent is your Self-consciousness able to go out of your material body? Do you 
know what happened to us near Jerikho?’  

133 
 
‘Beloved Malpana,’ said  the  novice, ‘I  am  able  always  to  be  in  attunement  with  my  beloved 
Lord. Am I allowed to do this?’ 
‘Beloved one,’ the God-man answered, ‘I allow you to do this whenever you wish, if it pleases 
you  and  you  do  not  find  it  tiresome.  Philippos  is  often  in  attunement  with  me  without asking  my 
permission. I have nothing to hide from my beloved ones.’ 
‘Now,’ said Joshua, ‘I have come to my room to send blessings, angelic elementals, to Ezekiel, 
Solomon and Yiacoub to help them in their new lives. Do you know of whom I speak, Yiassounai?’ 
Yiassounai  attuned  himself to  his  beloved  one,  and  looking  with  adoration  into  Joshua’s eyes 
said, ‘Beloved Malpana, now I know. Solomon called you “Messiah”. Alaha has inspired him — I see 
him in the robe of a Rabbi.’ 
‘Take  care’,  said  Joshua, ‘that  you  do  not  influence  him  with  your  thoughts.  Solomon  must 
make  his  own  decisions.  I  can  see  Solomon  as  a good  Israelite  Rabbi.  Can  you  see  him  now, 
Yiassounai?’ 
‘Yes,  beloved Malpana,’ Yiassounai  replied  quickly. ‘He  is  in  a  room,  alone  and  he  weeps 
saying, “Thank  you, Alaha,  that  my  hands  are  not  stained  with  human  blood.  You  have  saved  me 
from the crimes I would have committed. Forgive our sins. The white-robed Angel you sent to us said 
that our sins were forgiven. Alaha, I offer  you my heart, a withered, bad smelling flower. Clean my 
heart, Lord, and accept it. In my heart are the words your Angel gave me written on a piece of white 
leather.”’ 
Yiassounai, so moved by what he saw and heard some miles away, was weeping. Joshua patted 
his  head. ‘Your  tears  are also  cleaning  Solomon’s heart.  His  sincere  tears  of  repentance wash  away 
his sins, but your tears give him strength to keep his promises to Alaha. But now it is Ezekiel who is 
most in need of prayers and tears.’ 
As  Yiassounai  left  he  met  Stephanos  who  had  come  to  find  him.  Seeing  him  weeping, 
Stephanos was puzzled, but he did not dare ask what had happened. 
Joshua  had  asked  Yiacoub,  the  son  of  Yioussouf,  to  gather  the  disciple-healers  in  the 
synagogue hall that afternoon for instruction. Sixty came; twenty Israelites and forty Essenes. At the 
last minute six Israelites slipped in. Ephraim could not hide his displeasure, knowing them to be spies 
of the Sanhedrin. 
The companion-disciples, the Rayis Rabbi, and the six latecomers were seated on stools to the 
left and right of the pulpit. Joshua recited his worship prayer to Alaha in Greek and in Aramaic. He 
added to the prayer,  
 
 
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver  
us from evil. (Matthew 6:13) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘My dear ones, all of you,’ said Joshua, ‘Alaha the Heavenly Father is giving to all phenomena 
of life which are living in a material form, including all his offspring, the human beings, everything 
they need to live in their material bodies. Alaha gives the sun and the light of the sun and everything 

134 
 
the  material  bodies  are  in  need  of  to  live.  He gives  water  and  food  on  Earth in  abundance.  To all 
living creatures and to all human beings he gives air to breathe and in that air His Vitality. The Holy 
Archangels  of  the  Seven  Orders  of  Creation  are  unceasingly  creating and  sustaining  the  material 
bodies of all living creatures. They are continually sustaining your material bodies by transmuting the 
food  you  eat  and  the  water  and  liquids  you  drink  into  flesh and  blood  and  all  that  composes  your 
bodies.  But  the  material  body  that  you  live  in  is  not  your real  Self.  In  the  air  you  breathe,  and  in 
everything  everywhere,  is Alaha’s Mind-Light  Vitality. As  your  bodies  are  in  need  of  matter  to  be 
created and to live, your present-day personality, the  time-and-place self (which always has within it, 
as  its  pulse  of  life,  your  real  Self)  is  in  need  of Alaha’s greatest  gift  to  Man:  His  Mind-Light-Life 
Vitality.  You  and  the  Holy  Archangels  are using  this  Mind  Vitality  to  create  your  psychical  and 
noetical bodies, your present-day personality. 
‘All of you at every moment are using Alaha’s Mind Vitality, Alaha’s Mind Supersubstance in 
the subconscious creation of elementals: human-in-nature angels or human-in-nature demons, which 
compose  your  personality.  As  material  bodies  need  matter  to  live,  so  your  present-day  self  needs 
Mind Supersubstance to live. Your real Self, your Soul-Ego-Self, as an immortal Divine Being, is in 
need of nothing to be in the everlasting Life, and to exist from time to time in the worlds of existence. 
But as the Spirit Soul’s image, you now are in need of Alaha’s Mind Vitality in order to unfold your 
immortal Self, transmuting in time your personality—that petty, weak and continuously changing self—
into its Divine nature. All of you have been the rightful sons of Alaha in the Kingdom of His Heavens 
and so are you now. A parable will help you understand.’ 
A  certain  man  had  two  sons,  and the younger  of  them  said  to  his father, ‘Father, give  me  the 
portion  of  goods  that falls  to  me.’ So  the  Father  divided to  them  his  livelihood.  And  not  many  days 
after,  the  younger son  gathered  all  together,  journeyed  to  a  far  country,  and  there  wasted  his 
possessions with prodigal living. But when he had spent all, there arose a severe famine in that land 
and he began to be in want. Then he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent 
him into his fields to feed swine. And he would gladly have filled his stomach with the pods that the 
swine  ate,  and  no  one  gave  him  anything.  But  when  he  came  to  himself,  he  said: ‘How many  of  my 
father’s hired servants have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger. I will arise and go 
to my father, and will say to him, “Father, I have sinned against Heaven and before you, and I am no 
longer  worthy  to  be  called  your  son.  Make  me  like  one  of  your  hired  servants.” And  he  arose  and 
came to his Father. But when he was  still a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion, 
and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against 
Heaven and in your sight, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’ But the father said to his 
servants,  'Bring  out  the  best  robe  and  put  it  on  him,  and  put a  ring  on  his  hand  and  sandals  on  his 
feet. And bring the fatted calf here and kill it, and let us eat and be merry. For this my son was dead 
and he is alive again; he was lost and is found.’ And they began to be merry. Now his elder son was 
in the field and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing. So he called one 
of the servants and asked what these things meant. And he said to him, ‘Your brother has come, and 
because he has received him safe and sound, your father has killed the fatted calf.’ But he was angry 
and would not go in. Therefore his father came out and pleaded with him. So he answered and said to 
his  father, ‘These  many years  I  have  been  serving  you.  I  never  transgressed  your  commandment  at 
any time; yet you never gave me a young goat that I might make merry with my friends. But as soon 
as this son of yours,’ came, who has devoured your livelihood with prostitutes, you killed the fatted 
calf for him.’ And he said to him, ‘son, you are always with me, and all that I have is yours. It was 
right that we should make merry and be glad, for your brother was dead and he is alive again, and he 
was lost and is found.’ (Luke 15:11-32) 
 

135 
 
‘My  dear  ones,  all  of  you,  the “Father” of  this  parable  is Alaha as  the El  Shaddai,  the 
Manifested  One.  The “older  son” represents  the  Spirit-Ego-Beings,  serving  in  the  field,  creating in 
the  worlds  of  existence.  These  are  certain Archangelic  Orders,  the  Creators,  especially  active in  the 
Noetic  state,  the  seventh  Heaven.  The “younger  son”,  the  prodigal  son,  is  the  incarnated and 
humanized  part  of  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego.  The  father’s “livelihood” is  the  Mind-Light  Vitality which 
both sons can claim by right to use. 
The “far off country” is the gross material world of existence, and the “citizen of that land” is 
the law of separateness. The “Prodigal Son” is the personality of the Spirit-Soul-Ego, and the “swine” 
are  the  bad  elementals  that  the  petty  ego-self  creates  and  keeps,  making  bad use  of  the  Father’s 
livelihood, the Mind-Light Vitality. 
The  desires  and thoughts  serving  the  egoism  of  a  human  being  cannot  satisfy  the  Spirit-Soul-
Ego-Self  that  is  active  within  the  personality.  Sooner  or  later,  starving,  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego in  the 
personality will return back to its El Shaddai Selfhood... the Father. 
The “fatted  calf” is  Man’s material  body,  which  is  destined  to  die  (not  the  Heavenly human 
Form). Flesh, blood and bone cannot enter the Kingdom of the Heavens. Yet there is the “best robe”: 
the  luminous  Life-Light  human  Form,  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego’s body  (if  we  can  call it “body”),  the 
immortal, incorruptible Form-body of a human being in his Divine nature. 
‘All  human  beings  are  Self-conscious  offspring  of  the  Almighty Alaha  El  Shaddai,  the 
Manifested One in his Divine One-ness.’ 
One  of  the  newcomers  raised  his  hand  requesting  to  speak.  Joshua  beckoned  to  him  to speak. 
‘Rabbi’,  the  Israelite  said, ‘what  is  the  meaning in  your  parable  of  the “hired  servants”, the 
“prostitutes”, and the “ring”?’ 
Joshua  answered,  The “hired  servants” are  the  elementals  created  by  the  Archangels  from the 
Mind  Vitality  of  the  El  Shaddai.  The “prostitutes” are  the  sex-lust  elementals  that  are  the result  of 
distorting   the   holy   Mind   Vitality   into   sexual   satisfaction.  These  are  the   demon-Liliths in   a 
personality.  The “ring” is  the  symbol  of  eternity.  The  Prodigal  Son,  coming  home  to  his Divine 
nature, now knows what time is as past, present, and future, and so understands the eternal Now and 
everlasting Life. 
The  Father  never  gave  the  Archangels  of  the  noetical  worlds  gross  material  bodies,  as  it was 
not in their nature to incarnate in a material world.’ 
‘Malpana Rabbi,’ continued  the  newcomer, ‘may  I  ask  you  something  else  unrelated  to your 
lesson?’ ‘My dear,’ said Joshua, ‘I know what you want to ask, and that you cannot do otherwise. So 
ask you must.’ 
‘I  wanted  to  ask  you,’ said  the  young  Israelite, ‘your  opinion.  We  are  paying  taxes  to  the 
temple, a temple tax. And we pay taxes to Herod, and many other sorts of taxes. Is it right for us to 
pay taxes to the Romans also? In your opinion should we pay taxes to Caesar?’ 
‘When  you pay the temple taxes,’ said Joshua, ‘you are not giving to Alaha what you have to 
give, but only helping with the expenses of the temple. Alaha is not in need of anything material from 
human  beings. Alaha does  not  need  your  prayers:  You  need  to  pray. Alaha loves  you whether  you 
ever think of Him or not. You must love and worship Alaha, because you need to attune yourself to 
Him. Love Alaha, this is what you need to live.’ 
‘The  Romans  believe  that  they  are  protecting  you  from  robbers.  Here  in  Palestine  they  pay 
sword-bearers  for  that  purpose.  They  also  construct  roads.  Have  you  some  money  on  you? Come 
here, my dear.’ 
The  Israelite  was  only  a  few  steps  from  the  God-man.  He  rose  from  his  stool  and approached 
him.  Four  of  the  newcomers  were  well  known  Pharisees,  members  of the  Sanhedrin and  leaders  of 
the Zealots. The other two were Sadducees. 

136 
 
Then the Pharisees went out and plotted how they might entangle him in his talk. And they sent 
to him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, ‘Malpana, we know that you are true, and teach the 
way of Alaha in Truth, nor do you care about anyone for you do not regard the person of men. Tell us 
therefore, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?’ But Joshua perceived their 
wickedness, and said, ‘Why do you test me, you hypocrites? Show me the tax money.’ So they brought 
unto him a dinarius. And he said to them, 'Whose image and inscription is this?’ They say unto him, 
‘Caesar’s’.  And  he  said  to  them,  'Render  therefore  to  Caesar  the  things that  are  Caesar’s,  and to 
Alaha  the  things  that  are Alaha’s.’ When  they  had  heard  these  words,  they marveled,  and  left  him, 
and went their way. The same day the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him and 
asked  him,  saying, ‘Malpana,  Moses  said  that  if  a  man  dies,  having no  children,  his  brother  shall 
marry  his  wife,  and  raise  up  offspring  for  his  brother.  Now  there  were with  us  seven  brothers:  The 
first died, after he married, and having no offspring, left his wife to his brother. Likewise the second 
also,  and  the  third,  even  to  the  seventh.  And  last  of  all  the  woman died  also.  Therefore,  in  the 
resurrection, whose wife of the seven will she be? For they all had her.’ Joshua answered and said to 
them, ‘You are mistaken, not knowing the Scriptures nor the power of Alaha. For in the resurrection 
they  neither  marry,  nor  are  given  in  marriage,  but  are  like  angels of Alaha  in  Heaven.  But 
concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was spoken to you by Alaha, saying, 
“I am the Alaha of Ibrahim, and the Alaha of Is-Shakh, and the Alaha of Yiacoub”. Alaha is not the 
Alaha of the dead, but of the living.' (Matthew 22:15-32) 
The newcomers left the synagogue hall, muttering angrily, complaining that this Essene Rabbi 
was saying indirectly that they should surrender to the Roman conquerors and serve the conquerors. 
When they were gone, Joshua said, ‘In less than a hundred years these war-loving  people will 
believe  they  are  strong  enough  to  drive  the  Romans  from  Palestine,  and  they  will  declare war.  But 
they will  be  defeated.  There  will  be  great  bloodshed  and  Yerushalayim  will  be  devastated  by  the 
Romans. The Romans will destroy the temples and no stone will remain on stone in the place where 
the great temple of Solomon now stands.’ In Aramaic Joshua said,  
 
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit 
the Earth. (Matthew 5:5) 
 
 
 
 
 
When the disciple-healers had dispersed, Joshua, Ephraim and the companion-disciples went to 
the sitting room of the See. 
‘My beloved ones,’ said Joshua, ‘in less than three years from today those four Pharisees, with 
Israelite  Rayis  Rabbis  and  Scribes,  will  use  my  words  before  the  Sanhedrin  to  condemn me.  The 
Rayis Rabbi  Kaiaphas and the Sanhedrin judges appointed by him, also Pharisees, will sentence me 
to death. They will not dare to arrest me in daylight, but one of you will betray me, bringing them to 
our place of prayer and rest in the darkness of the night. They will charge me with the blasphemy of 
calling myself the Son of Alaha. Late on that same night they will take me before Herod, saying that I 
call myself a “King”. This will fuel Herod’s anger towards me. Early in the morning I will be brought 
before the Roman governor. They will demand my crucifixion. Pilate will give me over to them and 
Roman swordsmen, spearmen, and the Sanhedrin executioners will inflict many bruises and bleeding 
wounds on my body and they will crucify it. My material body will bleed to death on the cross. Good 
men, who have heard my preachings, friends of the Roman governor, will take my dead body down 
and lay it in a burial cave, closing the entrance with a heavy stone.’  

137 
 
‘In  three  days  I  will  heal  my  body  of  its  wounds,  and  I  will  resurrect  it  and  enter  it  again, 
leaving only the marks on my hands and feet, and the hole in my side, to convince my disciples that 
they truly see and speak to me.’ 
‘Beloved Rayis Rabbi Ephraim,’ said Joshua, ‘why do you look upon me with such sorrow?’ 
It  is  for  this  hour  I  have  come  to  the  world.  That  I  may  teach  you  that  the  flesh,  the  material 
body, is not you. It lives for some years, and it dies. But you, the Spirit-Soul-Ego, are Life. You are 
Life everlasting.’ 
And  I  say  to  you,  my  friends,  be  not  afraid  of  those  who  kill  the  body,  and  after  that  have  no 
more that they can do. But I will show you whom you must fear: Fear him, who  after he has killed, 
has power to cast into hell, yes, I say unto you, fear him. (Luke 12:4-5) 
‘My Beloved Ephraim,’ said Joshua, ‘I am the Resurrection and the Life and I will prove this. 
The  Son  of Alaha,  as  the  Son  of  Man,  must prove  to  human  beings  that  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego  is 
immortal.’ 
‘All I have told you will come to pass. I ask you to be at peace and to help the Essenes remain 
quiet and calm. The resurrection of my body will be my triumph, as the Son of Man, over death. And 
now my beloved ones, let us sing our worship prayer to Alaha, our Heavenly Father.’ 
 
Your will is done in the Heavens, so on Earth. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before  sunrise  the  following  day  Joshua  went  to  the  temple,  where  he  found  Yiassounai 
reciting from the fifty-first Psalm of David in Greek,  
 
Have mercy upon me, O God, according  
to your loving-kindness... 
 
 
Joshua patted Yiassounai on the head and went straight to the Holy of Holies, passing through 
the  heavy  yellow  curtain  without  lifting  it.  This  Yiassounai  had  seen  the  God-man  do many  times. 
Ephraim,  Yiohannan,  Petros,  Andreas,  Philippos,  Nathanael,  and  the  two  Yiacoubs had  followed 
Joshua  into the  temple  for  the morning  service  of  worship  to Alaha.  After  the service  Joshua  asked 
Yiacoub  the  son  of  Yioussouf  to call  the  disciple-healers  to  the  synagogue hall  for  instruction  that 
afternoon. 
In the yard of the Essene temple many stricken people – over two hundred, mostly Israelites – 
with their kinfolk had come seeking healing. One of those Pharisees who had been in the synagogue 
hall the previous day came with a crippled man, whose right leg was atrophied and much shorter than 
the left. Joshua healed him and all the others, paying no attention to the Pharisee. When Joshua went 
to the sitting room of the See, he found the Pharisee waiting for him. Joshua greeted him with love, 
asking him why he had come. 
The Pharisee responded that he had come to warn him that the Sanhedrin was publicly accusing 
him  of  being  a  leader  of  the  demons,  healing  bodies  to  ensnare  Souls,  while  privately  condemning 
him  for  violating  Mosaic  Law  in  his  teaching. ‘The  Sanhedrin,’ the  Pharisee  said, ‘considers  the 
Romans to be conquerors and enemies and wants them cast out of our blessed land. But you call them 

138 
 
our  brothers  and  the  offspring  of Alaha,  accepting  their  presence  here.  Young  Essene,  you  are 
surrendering us to the Romans when you accept as lawful the payment of taxes to Caesar.’  
The  Pharisee’s voice  rose  with  his  anger. ‘Moses  said, “An  eye  for  an  eye  and  a  tooth  for  a 
tooth” You  say, “To  anyone  who  slaps  you  offer  to  him  your  other  cheek  Are  we  to  invite  the 
Romans to slap us?  Is that what  you're saying?  You are mad. The Sanhedrin has already decided to 
kill  you  for  the  sake  of  our  nation. You Essenes  are  Israelites too. What  are  you? How  dare you  an 
Israelite, teach acceptance of slavery to the Roman idolaters?”’ 
Joshua said to him, ‘Israelite nobleman, during the course of time many nations have conquered 
other  nations,  weaker  in  arms  and  in  fighting  skills.  The  Assyrians  with  their-mighty Kings,  the 
Persians, the Greeks-where are they now? Now it is the Romans who are the conquerors, ruling over 
many  nations  that  in  the  past  had  ruled  over  others. What the  Sanhedrin I  plotting  will  end  in  a 
bloodbath and the devastation of Yerushalayim I did not come into this world to encourage violence, 
but  to  save  man  from  man,  from  the  violence  they  inflict  on  one another  I  came  to  save  the  Soul-
personality  of  Man  from  the  human-in-nature  demons  he  or she  creates  in  composing  a  wicked 
present-day personality. 
‘Young Essene Rabbi,’ said the Pharisee, ‘the Essenes, and many Israelites are calling you the 
“Mshiha”. Are you the Mshiha?’ The God-man replied, ‘I AM that I AM. I AM the Mshiha’. 
Enraged by these words, the Pharisee departed muttering darkly against Joshua in Aramaic. 
To the  afternoon  lecture,  four  other  Pharisees  came.  After  Joshua  had  taught  the  healer 
disciples some  exercises,  an  Essene  disciple  asked  Joshua  to  speak  to  them  of  the Sepher Yetzirah, 
the  creation  of  the  cosmos,  the  worlds  of  existence  and  on  the  nature  of  Man,  as  he had in K’far 
Nahum. 
‘Alaha,’ Joshua  said, ‘the  Absolute  Reality,  the  Absolute  Infinite  Beingness,  the  Absolute 
Infinite Selfhood, expresses His Will-pleasure to manifest Himself in Himself, in His Omnipresence,  
in  His Infinite  boundless  Space-Self.  This  causes  His Will-pleasure,  to  co-vibrate in  the  Divine 
Beings,  known  as  the  Principalities.  At all  times  Mind  Supersubstance  Vitality emanates  from  His 
Self  and  from  these  Divine  Beings.  The  Principalities, in vibrating  with  the Will-pleasure  of Alaha 
for manifestation, classify themselves, according to their nature, into Archangelic Orders. 
‘In the Divine Plan, the law of manifestation for anything existing is the duality in the ONE As 
an example, study a straight line. In any line you have always two opposite visible end points and an 
invisible  middle.  Any  phenomenon  of  life  is  like  such  a  line  on which  one  can  see and  trace  its 
duality. In every creature, in everything existing, Alaha, is always the middle. 
‘This law can be seen in all of creation, in everything existing and living as a phenomenon of 
life in all the worlds of existence: in the material worlds, the ethereal worlds, the worlds of emotions 
or psychical worlds, in the worlds of thoughts or noetical worlds and in the worlds beyond.’ 
‘So in  the  worlds  of  existence  these  are  the  laws:  The  law  of  duality;  the  law  of  continuous 
change (movement as growth); and the law of Mind Vitality. 
‘In boundless space, a mysterious nature of Alaha, is His Will-pleasure to manifest Himself in 
Himself. This is the ONE reality in the dual: Himself and the Divine Plan. 
‘Manifesting Himself according to His Divine Law of duality, Alaha presents Himself as the El 
Shaddai (the Logos) and as the Shekhinah (the Holy Spirit).’ 
‘In space Alaha is the invisible middle of the Line symbol. The dual end points of the opposite 
sides  are  the  Maha-Els  and  the  Kha-vir-Els;  the  Lords  of  the  Mind-fire,  heat,  and  the Lords  of  the 
Mind-liquids, water. 
‘The duality of the Mind-fire is the fire-flame and the ethereal light visible when the element of 
fire  acts  on  combustible  materials.  The  Mind-fire  is  the  boundless  ocean  in  space, which is  the 
domain of the Archangelic Order of the Maha-Els, who manifest the red light.’ 
  

139 
 
‘The mode of existence of the Mind Vitality opposite to the fire element is the boundless ocean 
of  Mind-liquids.  The  duality  of  this  Mind  Vitality  is  the  cold  (hydrogen)  and  water.  This boundless 
Mind ocean of Mind-liquids is the domain of the Archangelic Order of the Kha-vir-Els, who manifest 
the blue light. 
 
ALAHA 
  
  
 
Mind-Fire Mind-Liquids 
Maha-Els Kha-vir-Els 
 
‘Blending their Mind forces, the Maha-Els and the Kha-vir-Els create the third boundless ocean 
of  Mind Vitality  Supersubstance  in  which  the  Archangelic  Order  of  the  Ra-pfa-Els  create together 
with  the  Maha-Els  and  the  Kha-vir-Els  air  Vitality  and  energy,  and  finally  matter.  The Ra-pfa-Els 
manifest violet light.’ 
‘The Mind-Light Vitality used by the Creators, the Holy Archangels, by Alaha El Shaddai and 
Alaha Shekhinah appears in the worlds of existence in many modes of luminosity and brightness.’ 
‘The  vibrations  of  Mind-Light  produce  sounds,  the  symbols  of  which  are  letters  used  in any 
human or any Archangelic language.’ 
‘The major sound symbols are Aleph, Mem, and Shin: 
 
 
 
‘These  sound  symbols  are  used  by  the  Archangels  to  produce  sounds  (inaudible to  the human 
ear)  to  create  in  the  worlds  of  existence  the  elements  of  fire,  water,  and  air.  Air  is  the balancer 
between the opposing elements of fire and water. These elements also proceed directly from the Holy 
Spirit. 
‘From these three main sound symbols Alaha formed, weighed, and composed the twenty-two 
letters. Every  human  being,  every  living  entity  and  everything  existing  has  a  name  composed  of 
letters, symbols of sound.’ 
‘A  human  being  can  voice  these  letter-sounds  by  audibly  modifying  air  in  five  places:  the 
throat, the mouth, the tongue, the teeth and the lips.’ 
‘From the three Light-Mind oceans are proceeding fire, water and air in dual forces, male and 
female.’ 
‘The three worlds of existence are the gross material world with its etheric double; the so-called 
psychical  worlds  with  their  etheric  doubles,  and  the  noetical  worlds  with  their  etheric doubles.  In 
these three mundane worlds of existence are the six universes, or the six Heavens.’ 
‘The seventh  Heaven is Divine. It is the  Noetic state, the world of the total Wisdom of Alaha 
the  world  of Alaha’s unchanging  Laws  and  Principles.  This  seventh  Heaven  is  the domain  of  the 
Holy Archangelic Orders, the Creators. Only as Spirit-Soul-Egos in at-one-ment with the El Shaddai 
Alaha can human beings enter the seventh Heaven.’ 
‘To  enter  the  seventh  Heaven  a human  being  must  clean  his  petty  self,  get  rid  of  its demon-
egoism,  transmute  his  time-and-place  self  into  his  real  Being   Self  by  unfolding  in  it Self-
Superconsciousness, his Soul Consciousness.’ 
‘This can be achieved when a human being, using his Divine nature of will and observation to 
study  the  gross  material  body  and  its  etheric  double  and  the  energy-forces  in  them, becomes  the 
master of the material body and its etheric double. Likewise, he must become master of his psychical 
and noetical body, gaining awareness of them, studying their natures, and use them Self-consciously. 
Thus  the  human  being  must  become  master  of  his  three  bodies, of  his  sensations,  emotions,  and 
thoughts. He becomes the master of his destiny.’ 

140 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE Joshua, the Lord of Forgiveness 
[JOSHUA, THE LORD OF FORGIVENESS, SAVES A WOMAN TAKEN IN ADULTERY. 
RETURNS TO K’FAR NAHUM. EXORCISES DEMONS FROM MARIA MAGDALENA. 
THE GOD-MAN TEACHES AND HEALS.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For if you forgive men their trespasses, 
your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. 
(Matthew 6:14) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following day, after the morning service, Joshua found a Pharisee and an Israelite disciple-healer 
waiting  for  him  in  the  sitting  room.  The  Pharisee  asked  Joshua  to  give  a  lecture  in  the Israelite 
synagogue hall that adjoined the Israelite temple early the following afternoon. Joshua consented. 
When  Joshua  arrived,  there  were many  gathered  in the courtyard  seeking  healing  and  the hall 
was  overflowing  with  Israelites.  After  Joshua  healed  all  who  had  come  to  him,  more  than fifty,  he 
entered  the  synagogue  and  was  lead  to  the  pulpit.  He  spoke  of  the  Love  and  Mercy  of Alaha for 
mankind and of the right way to worship Alaha. 
Coming  out  of  the  synagogue  Joshua  healed  those  who  had  in  the  meantime  gathered  in the 
courtyard. A middle-aged man approached him in great despair, saying, ‘Reverend Rabbi healer, I am 
a  very  unlucky  man.  My  wife  has  suffered  for  many  years  from  a  tormenting  skin disease.  She 
scratches herself until she bleeds. My youngest son, who is only twelve, is a paralytic. My eight-year-
old daughter is epileptic. They are on their way from Bethany where we live, but they haven't arrived 
yet, and now you have finished healing and will go before they come.’ 
‘My  dear  Dan,’ said  Joshua  gently, ‘I  will  return tomorrow  after  the  morning  service.  Come 
here again with your family three hours after sunrise.’ 
  

141 
 
And  so  it  was  that  the  following  morning  Dan  waited  with  his  wife  and  children  in  the 
courtyard of the synagogue. Joshua greeted them saying, ‘Shlam, Dan. Rebecca, my dear, stand up.’ 
And taking her hand he helped her to her feet, and the woman felt warmth course through her whole 
body as she was healed. 
The boy lay on the paving stones on a  green blanket, his eyes wide with fear. Joshua held his 
right  hand,  saying, ‘Come  Reuben,  you  are  well  now.  I  will  help  you  stand.’ And  the  boy stood, 
entirely  healed.  Joshua  embraced  him  saying, ‘Reuben,  you  must  believe  in Alaha,  who loves  you. 
You must fill your heart with love for Alaha and for all other human beings.’ 
The  girl  clung  to  her  mother.  The  God-man  put  his  right  hand  on  her  head,  saying, ‘Hannah, 
look in my eyes. You are well now, my child, and will suffer no more seizures or spasms.’ Dan stared 
at the God-man in awe and confusion. ‘How is it,’ he stammered, ‘that  you know us by name?  Are 
you  a  prophet?’ ‘I  am  the  One,’ said  Joshua, ‘who  loves  you  all  and  knows everything  concerning 
you.’ 
Meanwhile,  two  strong  men  appeared  in  the  courtyard  dragging  between  them  a  half naked 
young  woman.  They  were  followed  by  about  twelve  others,  armed  with  stones,  and  a loathsome 
looking fellow on crutches. 
The  woman’s name  was  Suzanna.  She  was  a  very  beautiful  girl  of  eighteen,  so  poor  that she 
had been selling her body to young Israelites on the streets since she was fourteen. The lame man was 
Nahum, a rich, middle-aged man, whom Suzanna had spurned. Infuriated by her rejection, he hired a 
young man to take the girl by force, in the streets of Yerushalayim, and then accuse her of adultery. 
Nahum had also arranged for other men to stone her. 
Two Pharisees, two Scribes, and a Rabbi, hearing the shouting came out of the temple. The girl 
was  dragged  before  them  to  be  charged  with  adultery  in  a  public  place.  Joshua  approached  them, 
which  brought  a  sly  smile  to  the  Rabbi’s lips  as  he  saw  this  as  a  chance  to entrap  the  God-man. 
Suzanna  was  thrown  violently  to  the  ground  as  Nahum  limped  forward to  shout  his  accusations. 
Mosaic Law called for the stoning to death of any woman taken in adultery. 
But early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came to him; and he 
sat  down  and  taught  them.  Then  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees  brought  to  him  a  woman caught  in 
adultery. And when they had set her in the midst, they said to him: ‘Malpana, this woman was caught 
in  adultery,  in  the  very  act.  Now  Moses  in  the  Law  commanded  us,  that  such should  be  stoned  to 
death. But what do you say?’ This they said, testing him, that they might have something of which to 
accuse  him.  But  Joshua  had  stooped  down  and  wrote  on  the  ground  in  the sand  with  his  finger,  as 
though  he  did  not  hear.  So  when they  continued  asking  him,  he  raised himself  up and  said  to them, 
‘He  who  is  without  sin  among you, let  him  throw  a  stone  at  her  first.’ And  again he  stooped  down, 
and wrote on the ground. Then those who heard it, being convicted by their conscience, went out one 
by  one,  beginning  with  the  oldest,  even  to  the  last.  And  Joshua was  left  alone,  and  the woman 
standing in the midst. When Joshua had raised himself up, and saw none but the woman, he said to 
her, ‘Woman, where are those accusers of yours? Has no man condemned you?’ She said, ‘No one, 
Lord.’ And Joshua said to her, ‘Neither do I condemn you; go...and sin no more.’ Then Joshua spoke 
to them again, saying, ‘I am the light of the world: he who follows me shall not walk in darkness, but 
have the Light of Life.’ (John 8:2-12) 
Suzanna kissed the hand of Joshua before she departed in confusion and fright. Joshua turned to 
an awe-struck Nahum, who was still holding a stone in his hand. ‘Nahum,’ said Joshua, ‘throw down 
the  stone  and  remove  from  your  heart  the  demon  of  malice.’ His  eyes  still dazed  in  bewilderment, 
Nahum dropped the stone. 
Others limped,  or  were  carried,  into  the  courtyard,  and  Joshua  healed  them  all.  So  great was 
Nahum’s guilt,  that  he  dared  not  ask  the  God-man  to  heal  him.  As  he  saw  other  lame  men made 
whole, he could not hold back his tears. 

142 
 
Joshua went to him and, caressing his head, he said, ‘Nahum, your sins are forgiven. Your tears 
of remorse have washed  your heart clean. Now walk, for  you can walk and the Merciful Alaha will 
show you the way.’ Thus Nahum was healed in body and in personality.  
Joshua, turning to the crowd that had gathered around him said in Aramaic, 
 
Whatever you would have others do for you, 
do so for them. (Matthew 77:12) 
 
 
 
 
 
Early the next day after the morning service Joshua went to his rooms to prepare for his return 
journey  to K’far  Nahum.  Yiassounai brought  him  a  clay  bowl  of  warm  milk.  The  Yiacoubs were 
harnessing the horses and Stephanos called Yiassounai to help him load three large baskets of bread, 
cakes of cheese, hard-boiled eggs, fresh and dried figs and dates, grapes, and raisins and clay pots of 
honey. 
As  Joshua  said  farewell  to Ephraim  in  the  Rabbi’s study,  Ephraim  gave  him  some  money for 
the  building  fund  in K’far  Nahum.  The  fund  was  to  build  simple  housing  for  Essene  refugees,  who 
were fleeing persecution at the hands of the Sanhedrin. 
As the  entourage  prepared  to  leave,  Yiassounai  gave  the  travelers  fresh  flowers,  jasmine and 
basil.  An  hour  after  sunset  they  arrived  in  Bethel,  where  they had  supper  in  the  Essene  inn, before 
going on through the night and the next morning to Sikhem. After lunch in another Essene inn there, 
they crossed Beal Mountain on a road that went northwest to En-Gannim.  
In  En-Gannim  Joshua  healed  some  who  came  to  him.  On  the  road  to  Nazareth,  crossing the 
middle range of the Gilboa mountains, he healed two lepers. 
In Nazareth Joshua visited the sons of Yioussouf, his so-called stepbrothers; Yiossaphat, Simon 
and  Judas.  Yiacoub,  also  a  son  of  Yioussouf,  was  very  glad  to  be  reunited  with  his  family.  They 
stayed  eight  hours  in  Nazareth  and  then,  after  a  journey  of  three hours,  they  came  to the  home  of 
Altai and Esther, a daughter of Yioussouf, in Cana. There they stayed the night, and Yiacoub played 
happily  with  his  two  nephews.  After  taking  supper  with  the  family,  Petros, Andreas,  Yiacoub, 
Philippos, and Nathanael spent the night in an Essene inn kept by a close friend.  
They  left  early  the  following  morning  for  Tiberias,  and  moved  north  on  the  western  shore  of 
the sea of Galilee to the inn of Mattai in Magdala. This Essene inn was close to the Essene temple, 
where Joshua and Yiohannan went directly, leaving the others to rest. While they  were praying, the 
Rayis Rabbi of Magdala came to them with his nephew, Simon, who was healthy and strong. Simon 
was the brother of Yiohannan the Canaanite, one of the disciple-healers in the group of seventy.  He 
now  wore  the  long,  white  robe  of  an  Essene  novice  with  a  white  skull cap.  The  boy  ran  to  Joshua, 
who embraced him, kissing his eyes and saying, ‘Simon, my dear, you belong now to Alaha.’ ‘And to 
you,  Most  Beloved  Mshiha,’ said  Simon,  and  in  that  instant he  became  the  youngest  of  Joshua’s 
companion-disciples. 
Joshua, Yiohannan and Simon went to the inn to introduce Simon to the other disciples. Simon, 
Philippos and Nathanael would become fast friends. 
At  supper  that  evening in  the  house  of  the  Rayis  Rabbi  of  Magdala,  Simon  asked  his uncle’s 
permission to go  with Joshua to K’far Nahum, where he could live with his brother, Yiohannan the 
Canaanite. Permission was given gladly, and Joshua embraced Simon saying, ‘Beloved one, one day 
as the leader of a new religious Order in Palestine you will teach your brothers and sisters of Alaha’s 

143 
 
Love for mankind. And you will teach them to love Alaha with all their hearts, all their minds, and all 
their Souls, and you will baptize them in Alaha’s name and my name.’ 
The next day after the morning service, as Joshua was returning with the others to the inn, loud 
shouts were heard. Joshua asked the others to go on as he went to the house from which the noise was 
coming. 
In that house lived Zakharias and his youngest son Ehud. That morning Zakharias’ niece Maria 
had  arrived  from  Sidon  to  visit.  Maria  was  a  beautiful  woman  of  twenty-eight  who  had been  away 
from Magdala, her birthplace, for thirteen years. Her parents had died when she was five, and she had 
lived  with  her  grandmother,  who  was  the  mother  of  her  father  and  of Zakharias.  The  old  woman 
labored in a vineyard. She was very poor and the girl often went to feed having eaten only some hard 
crust of bread soaked in water. 
At  that  time  Zakharias  was  living  in  Bethabara  with  his  wife  and  three  sons  in  a  very  small 
tented  house  of  two  rooms,  earning  a  meager  living  by  working  in  a  bakery  His  mother  asked him 
often to take her and Maria in, but this seemed impossible to him. 
When the girl was fifteen, her grandmother fell gravely ill and was sent to an Essene Home in 
Bethsaida. Maria was taken by a Greek family as a maidservant to Sidon. 
A year later Maria was working in a tavern in Sidon, selling her body to whoever would buy: to 
Greeks,  to  Romans,  to  Israelites,  and  to  Bedouins.  Within  ten  years  she  had  acquired  a large  house 
near the sea, jewels, and great wealth. She was known as ‘Maria Magdalena the Bewitching’. 
Meanwhile Zakharias, working hard, had saved enough money to return to Magdala. His eldest 
son  was  married  and  remained  with  his  family  in  Bethabara,  but  the  second  son  and  his wife  came 
with  him,  as  did  the  youngest,  Ehud,  who  was  lame  and  epileptic.  Zakharias’ wife had  died  many 
years  before.  He  had  been  able  to  buy  a  large  house  in  Magdala  near  the  sea, and  there  he  had  his 
bakery and kept a cow in a shed. 
The  morning  of  the  disturbance  Ehud  has  taken  the  cow  to  pasture.  It  has  left  a  pile  of dung 
near the back door on the way. 
Maria had arrived in a horse-drawn cart, dressed as elegantly as any noble woman had. When 
her uncle saw her, he ran towards her shouting vile names and slapping her as he pushed her into the 
house  where  she  fell in  a  heap.  When  Joshua  entered,  Zakharias  was  still  shouting, and  kicking  the 
fallen woman. Joshua ordered him to stop and he helped her to stand. Her face was swollen, bruised 
badly,  and  her  fine  clothes  were  bloodstained.  Joshua  led  her  to  a  stool and,  asking  the  trembling 
woman to look into his eyes, he took out of her personality seven human-demons: 1. Adultery;  
2. Pride; 3. Stealing; 4. Lying; 5. Cruelty; 6. Hatred and Enmity; 7. Malice and Aggression. 
Then  Joshua  took  Zakharias,  who  was  weeping,  by  the  hand  and  led  him  out  into  the yard. 
There he materialized a gold coin and dropped it in the dung. ‘Malpana,’ said Zakharias, ‘a coin has 
fallen from the pocket of your robe,’ and taking a scrap of cloth he picked out the coin and took it to 
the well where he washed it clean in a bucket of water, scrubbing it with sand. ‘There,’ he said, ‘it is 
clean now. Gold in dung IS STILL GOLD.’ ‘Yes indeed, Zakharias,’ said Joshua. ‘Gold in dung is still 
gold. This  gold is like the Soul of  your niece and isn’t a Soul more valuable than gold? With water 
and  sand  you  cleaned  the  coin.  Maria,  with  tears of  repentance,  is  now  washing  away  her  sins. 
Maria’s sins are forgiven. Go to her, kiss her, and forgive her.’ 
Zakharias then embraced and kissed her, weeping with her. Maria kissed her uncle’s hand and 
left his house. Taking her cart she went on her way, joining a convoy to Sidon.  
As Ehud hobbled home with the cow Joshua went to him taking his hand, saying, ‘Ehud, look 
at me.’ Ehud felt life surging through his body as he was healed. 
  

144 
 
Joshua  gave  the  gold  coin  to  Zakharias  and  returned  to  the  inn  where the  disciples  were 
preparing to depart. Simon had come to the inn with his uncle, the Rayis  Rabbi of Magdala, and he 
climbed into the cart to sit beside Philippos. They left Magdala three hours before sunset, arriving in 
K’far  Nahum  at  midnight.  Simon,  Nathanael,  and  Philippos  went  with Yiohannan  to  sleep  in  the 
house of Shabbatai. The Yiacoubs stabled the horses. Petros and Andreas went to their home in K’far 
Nahum.  
The  next  morning  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel  came  to  the  temple  and  was  delighted  to  find his 
beloved Joshua there. After the morning service Joshua, Yiohannan, Simon, Nathanael and Philippos 
had breakfast with Samuel, who happily welcomed Simon and offered him a room in the See. Since 
Simon’s brother, Yiohannan the Canaanite, lived more than a mile away and Simon was most eager 
to serve Joshua and the See, he accepted gratefully. 
Joshua  went  as  usual  to  the  quay  to  heal.  Yiohannan,  Simon,  Philippos  and  Nathanael joined 
him.  Joshua  asked  Yiohannan  and  Simon  to  help  the  disabled  come  one  by  one  to  him for  healing, 
and  to  calm  the  noisy  crowd.  Philippos  and  Nathanael  went  to  see  Yiacoub,  who was  helping  his 
father  with  the  nets  on  his  fishing  boat  at  the  quay.  That  day  the  God-man  healed more  than  two 
hundred, many of them gravely and chronically ill. 
An  hour  before  noon  Joshua  boarded  Shabbatai’s boat,  stood  on  the  deck  and  spoke  to  the 
crowd  gathered  on  the  quay,  spilling  over  unto  the  shore.  Looking  out  over  the  fields  beyond  the 
shore, Joshua could see some men plowing, and others sowing the land with wheat, barley, oats and 
maize. Joshua  blessed  the  gathering  saying, ‘My  dear  ones,  all  of  you,  the  Kingdom  of Alaha is  on 
Earth.  It  is  everywhere  and  in  every  creature  that  lives.  The  Kingdom  of Alaha is  in  the seeds,  the 
seeds  of  every  sort  of  plant  life;  the  Kingdom  of Alaha is  in  the  ovum,  in  the  ova  of  all insects;  in 
reptiles, fish and water fowl; and in the ova of all the birds that soar over the earth. Alaha grants to all 
these creations, according to His Will-pleasure, His Creativity and His Blessing.’ 
The  Kingdom  of Alaha on  Earth  is  also  in  the  semen  of  every  species  in  the  animal  kingdom 
and in the semen of human beings; Alaha grants them, according to His Will-pleasure, His Creativity 
and His Blessing.’ 
Another parable he put forth to them, saying: ‘The Kingdom of Heaven is like a mustard seed, 
which a man took, and sowed in his field, which indeed is the least of all seeds; but when it is grown 
it  is  greater  than  the  herbs  and  becomes  a  tree,  so  that  the  birds  of  the  air  come  and  nest in  its 
branches.’ (Matthew 13:31-32) 
Stretching his hands towards the sky, Joshua said in Aramaic,  
 
Father, my Lord Alaha. Your name is  
sanctified. Your Kingdom is here. Your Will is  
done on Earth as it is in the Heavens. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  young  Israelite  man  asked  Joshua, ‘Malpana,  when  we  pray  to Alaha,  does  He  hear  our 
prayers? Does Alaha hear  you  now?’ ‘Certainly,’ said  Joshua, ‘Alaha hears  our  prayers. Alaha is 
Omnipresent.  He  is  everywhere.  He  is  in  your  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Being. Alaha is  the  pulse  of  Life in 
your heart.  He is in  your mind. Alaha hears  your prayers,  your words.  He knows  and he hears your 
thoughts. He knows your emotions, your desires, your intentions.’ 

145 
 
‘Malpana,’ the young man continued, ‘when we ask Alaha to give us something we need, does 
he give it?’ ‘If you ask Alaha to give you what you believe you are in need of,’ answered the God-
man, ‘if it is for your good, Alaha will grant it. My dear one, hasn’t Alaha already given you 
enough?’ And in Aramaic Joshua said emphatically, 
Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you  
will find; knock and it will he opened to you. 
(Luke 11:9) 
 
 
 
 
 
After Joshua concluded preaching, the others took lunch on the fishing boat. Joshua seldom ate. 
After  lunch  he  asked  Yiacoub,  the  son  of  Yioussouf,  to  call  the  disciple-healers  together  for 
instruction. 
Sixty disciple-healers, forty Essene and twenty Israelite, gathered in the Essene synagogue hall. 
Joshua  in  the pulpit,  with  his  arms  stretched  up  towards  the  ceiling,  offered  his  worship prayer  to 
Alaha. 
‘My  dear  ones,  all  of  you,’ he  said, Alaha  Elohim, Alaha and  His  Holy  Archangels,  the 
Creators in Alaha’s One-ness, create in your bodies living particles of matter filled with Alaha’s and 
His Holy Archangels’ Mind Vitality to sustain your bodies. 
‘Alaha in  His  great  Love  and  Mercy  allows  human  beings  to  use,  often  subconsciously,  His 
Mind Vitality in creating living entities (called “elementals”): emotion- and thought-forms. The sum 
total of these elementals composes their time-and-place personalities. 
‘Alaha grants  human  beings  free  will  to  use Alaha’s Mind  Vitality  to  create  good  or  bad 
elementals, human-in-nature angels or human-in-nature demons, thus composing their time-and-place 
petty selves. 
‘Alaha  Elohim allows  man  a  store  of  his  Mind  Vitality  which  the  Holy  Archangels,  the 
Creators,  transmute  into  energy  and  use  to  create  and  sustain  the  material  body,  its  etheric double, 
and the other bodies.’ 
Joshua taught all his disciples, but especially his disciple-healers, Self-conscious introspection 
and  Self-conscious  creation,  through  perfect  visualization,  of  powerful  healing thought-forms, 
elementals.  He taught  them  to  use  their willpower  to  send  these  living  entities, their  thought-forms, 
anywhere they wished them to go, and how to control them. 
For  the  few  of  his  followers,  who  had  the  predisposition and  the  will  to  serve  their  suffering 
brothers and sisters far away, he taught the extension of Self-consciousness and attunement to those 
afflicted. 
And  to  the  few  who  were  fully  attuned  to  His  Divine  Majesty,  in  full  adoration  of  His Glory, 
Joshua taught perfect introspection, that they might enter the Kingdom of the Heavens in their Spirit-
Soul-Ego-Selves. To those few, he taught the safe way to Self-consciously leave their material bodies 
and to travel where they would. Joshua also taught them how—while remaining Self-consciously in 
their material bodies and appearing perfectly normal to those around—they might expand their Self-
consciousness  to  distant  places,  even  to  as  many  as  five or  more  locations  at  the  same  time,  living 
Superconsciously. 
These few Joshua also taught privately to transmute Mind Vitality into anything material, even 
to materialize a human body and to enter it. Thus they could leave their material bodies far away and 

146 
 
use  a  materialized  body  as  they  would  their  own  material  body.  It  was  Philippos who  had  enough 
courage to do this.  
Yiacoub,  the  son  of  Yioussouf,  had  supervision  of  the  disciple-healers,  at  times  numbering 
more than five hundred. The few given private teaching were under the care of the human-Archangel 
Yiohannan,  the  first  cousin  of  the  God-man.  From  these  few  Yiohannan  demanded silence  and 
serenity.  They  were  required  to  be  at  all  times  calm,  loving,  and  peaceful,  and always  ready  and 
willing to serve their fellow men. 
It  was,  is,  and  always  will  be,  Joshua’s mission  to  guide  human  beings  back  to  their  Divine 
nature, by persuading them that, as human beings, their own interest lay in loving Alaha, who loves 
them  unconditionally  and  in  spite  of  their  transgressions,  and  in  loving  all  other  human beings, 
offspring of Alaha, their brothers and sisters, as they love their own selves. 
Joshua,  the  God-man,  healed  material  bodies  of  all  kinds  of  ills,  but  he  healed  also  the petty 
time-and-place  personalities  from  the  agonies  of  psychical  pain.  He,  as the  God-man,  for gave  Man 
his  transgressions  against  the  Laws  of Alaha and  taught  Man  to  forgive  those  who transgressed 
against him. With his life on Earth and with his teaching Joshua shows the way.  
Joshua said to Thomas, I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life. (John 14:6)  
Joshua called men to follow him saying in Greek and Aramaic, 
 
And he who does not take his cross 
and follow after me is not worthy of me. 
(Matthew 10:38) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

147 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR Maria Magdalene 
[MARIA MAGDALENA, CLEANSED OF SIN, DISPOSES OF HER PROPERTY. 
SHE GOES TO MARIA, MOTHER OF JOSHUA, TO SERVE WITH HER.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Watch and pray lest you enter into 
temptation. The Spirit indeed is willing but 
the flesh is weak. (Matthew 26:41) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When Maria Magdalena left her uncle’s house, bruised and battered by his assault on her, she 
drove as  far  as  Bethsaida,  north  of  Magdala. There  she met  Ishmail,  the  leader  of an  armed convoy 
headed  for  Sidon.  Unable  to  drive  her  cart  any  longer,  Maria  could  go  no  further  alone.  The 
Bedouin’s eighteen-year-old son, Malik, offered to drive her cart to Sidon. 
In  Tyre  she  gave  away  her  once  elegant,  now  stained  and  torn,  clothes  and  put  on  an ankle-
length  dark  gray  robe  such  as  a  shepherdess  would  wear,  and  she  covered  her  bruised  and swollen 
face with a dark veil. 
Maria had a house in Tyre on a small bay of the Great Salt Sea, which is what the Phoenicians 
called the Mediterranean. This house, with all the moveable property it contained, she sold to a Greek 
merchant. 
Three  days  later,  very  early  in  the  morning,  the  convoy  arrived  in  Sidon.  Here  Maria  had a 
large  estate  on  the  shore.  The  house  had  three  very  large  sitting  rooms  for  visitors,  three  large 
bedrooms, where Maria had satisfied the lusts of her customers. There were two rooms on the 

148 
 
upper floor, Maria’s bedroom and private sitting room. These were surrounded by a very large roof 
garden, lush with brilliant flowers. A smaller building adjacent to this house contained a kitchen and 
dining rooms, and the gardens stretched down to the sea. 
In  Sidon,  where  Maria  was  seen  in  her  plain,  gray  robe  with  her face  covered  like  a Bedouin 
woman,  having  apparently  renounced  her  old  life,  the  rumor  spread  that  she  was quite  mad.  Maria 
sold her house to a wealthy Phoenician. Her partnership in a bakery and confectionery she sold to her 
Greek  partner,  Patroclos,  and she  bought  from  him  the  three slaves  they  owned.  She  set  the  young 
men—two  Greeks  and  a  Phoenician—free  and  provided them  with  money  to  begin  their  new  lives. 
To  her  own  maidservant,  whom  now  she  called  her ‘sister’,  she  gave  money  enough  to  marry  the 
freed Phoenician, knowing they loved each other. 
Four months after she had met the God-man Maria slipped away quietly from Sidon on the cart 
of  an  Essene  Rabbi,  in  the  convoy  of  Ishmail,  bound  for  Magdala.  Maria  carried  a  small bag 
containing some clothes, along with two wooden boxes of gold and silver coins. 
In  Magdala  she  went  to  her  uncle’s house.  Seeing  her  in  her  dark  robe  Zakharias’ eyes filled 
with tears and he asked her to forgive him. ‘Dear Uncle,’ said Maria, ‘this robe suits me very well. I 
have given my life to Alaha and His Mshiha, and I have found peace. The money in these boxes has 
no taint on it of my former life. That money I spent buying the freedom of three slaves and providing 
them  with  the  means  to  begin  their  new  lives.  The  money bring is  from  the  sale  of  my  bakery  and 
confectionery. Some I give to you and my cousin. Tomorrow we will visit the Rayis Rabbi with my 
cousin, Immanuel, and I will propose that we buy with this money—six thousand gold coins and two 
thousand  silver—two  houses  I have seen  near  the  Essene  See  as  a  Home  for  orphans,  Essene  and 
Israelite,  and  a  Home  for  the aged  and  infirm.  I  have  not  forgotten  the  cold  and  hunger  of  my  own 
childhood, nor my grandmother’s tears as she saw my suffering, as I went to bed with nothing to eat. 
We must, all of us, help whomever is in need.’ 
The next day when the Rayis Rabbi asked Maria how she would live without her treasure, she 
replied, ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi,  I  will  work  like  everyone  else.  I  am  going  to K’far  Nahum to  the 
Mshiha, and Joshua will help me see what I should do.’ ‘If you ever have need of anything,’ said the 
Rayis Rabbi much moved, ‘you must come to me.’ 
The following day having prayed and wept at the grave of her grandmother, Maria set out for 
K’far Nahum. She went at once to Maria, the mother of Joshua. Maria, the mother of the God-man, 
embraced her warmly. ‘Mother of the Mshiha,’ said Maria Magdalena, ‘will you allow me to work in 
the  Essene  Charity  Homes.  I  will  wash  the  bedclothes  and  scrub  the  floors  for  a place  to  sleep  and 
simple  food.’ She  went  on  to  tell  the  mother  of  the  God-man  the  story  of  her life  from  her 
impoverished  childhood,  to  her  years  as  a  whore  in  Tyre  and  Sidon,  to  the  attack upon  her  by 
Zakharias and Joshua’s rescue, and his exorcising of the seven demons. She reported where she had 
gone and what she had done since that day. 
‘Maria,’ said the mother of Joshua when she had finished, ‘you need more than a place to sleep 
and a dish of food. You are in need of a loving mother and a loving brother.’ Embracing and kissing 
her, the Archangel humanized as Maria, mother of the God-man, said, ‘Maria, I offer you the loving 
mother I will be to you. You will work at my side in the Charity Homes and live with us in the house 
the Rayis Rabbi has given us.’ 
Late  one evening  two  hours  after  sunset  Joshua,  Yiohannan,  the  Yiacoubs,  Philippos,  and 
Nathanael arrived from Yerushalayim at  the house of Maria to find six  gravely ill Israelites waiting 
for them. Petros and Andreas had gone home and Simon, exhausted by the journey, had gone home to 
the See. Maria Magdalena was in one of the Homes helping the old women wash and prepare for bed. 

149 
 
Joshua  healed  a  leper  from  Bethsaida,  two  blind  men,  a  crippled  man  and  two  with  raging 
fevers and  convulsions.  His  mother  was  preparing  a hot  drink  for  them  all  when  Maria  Magdalena 
came home. She ran to Joshua saying, ‘Beloved Rabbi, I am here. How can I  serve  you?’ ‘My dear 
Maria,’ he said, ‘you have already given me much.’ And in Aramaic, so the others would understand, 
he said,  
 
Verily I say to you that in as much 
as you have done it to one of those, my little 
brothers, you have done it to me. 
(cf. Matthew 25:40) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘Maria, what you have done you did freely from your heart and for that, you are blessed. For so 
many years you wounded your own heart, but now that heart sings for joy, hymns of perfect love for 
all and for Alaha.  Alaha has blessed you. The material wealth you had once is nothing to the Soul. 
When  the  material  body  dies,  all  that  is  left  behind—to  enchant  others. Now  you  have  freed  your 
Soul and your heart from the venom and the evil illusions of the gross material world and your place 
is  in  the  Kingdom  of  the  Heavens.  Love  is  the  way  to  the Kingdom  of  the  Heavens;  the  love  for 
Alaha and the love for every human being, enlightened or living still in illusion.’ 
After that Maria Magdalena lived on with Maria and with Myriam Shalome. On Calvary when 
the God-man was crucified Maria Magdalena was also present, together with Maria, Joshua’s mother, 
Myriam Shalome, and Yiohannan. 
 
 
 
 
  

150 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE Joshua, the God-Man, Revealing His and 
our Spirit-Soul-Real-Ego-Self 
[JOSHUA QUIETS THE STORM. 
TEACHES HIS DISCIPLE-HEALERS REVEALING HIS AND OUR SPIRIT-SOUL-REAL-EGO-SELF.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For what is a man profited if he gains the 
whole world and loses his own Self-Soul or 
what will a man give in exchange for his 
Self-Soul? (cf. Mathew 16:26) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When  Joshua  came  to  the  temple  in K’far  Nahum  early  one  morning  the  novices  Is-shaak, 
Manasseh,  and Simon  the  Canaanite  were  silently  reciting  the  Psalms.  Joshua  entered  the  Holy of 
Holies to pray. When the Rayis Rabbi came into the temple, Is-shaak gave him the incense burner to 
offer  to Alaha.  Two  Israelite  Rabbis  had  come  to  the  service  that  morning as  well  as several 
petitioners  who  had  brought  friends  and  kinsmen  to  be  healed.  These  Joshua  healed  in the  temple 
yard following the service. At breakfast Joshua asked Yiacoub, son of Yioussouf, to call the disciple-
healers together for instruction that afternoon and to provide two extra stools for the visiting Rabbis, 
who  had  asked  to  attend  the  teaching.  Joshua  drank  a  small  bowl  of warm  milk  and  then  went  as 
usual to the quay. 
After  healing  more  than  fifty,  Joshua,  with  Yiohannan  and  Simon,  boarded  the fishing  boat 
where Shabbatai and Yiacoub were preparing to sail. Petros, Andreas, Philippos and Nathanael joined 
them.  The  ship  was  far  from  the  shore  when  heavy  clouds  gathered  blocking  the  sun  and a  strong 
wind  rose  dashing  great  waves  across  the  deck. Joshua  was  sleeping  near  the  helm where  Yiacoub 
manned the wheel. All of the disciples except Yiohannan and Philippos were alarmed by the ferocity 
of the storm and Petros woke Joshua saying: 
‘Lord,  save  us!  We  are  perishing.’ And  he  said  to  them, ‘Why  are you  fearful,  O  you  of  little 
Faith.’ Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea. And there was a great calm. And the men 
marveled, saying, ‘Who can this be, that even the winds and the sea obey him.’ (Matthew 8:25—27) 

151 
 
Shabbatai, looking to Joshua with a mixture of fear and adoration, said, ‘How shall we return to 
K’far Nahum with no wind in our sails?’ ‘My dear Shabbatai,’ said Joshua, ‘raise your sails.’ And as 
he did, a gentle wind rose and carried them home. 
That afternoon Joshua stood before an overflowing crowd in the synagogue hall and appearing 
like an Archangel in his long, white robe, he raised his hands and recited his worship prayer to Alaha. 
One of the Israelite Rabbis asked to speak, but before he could ask his question Joshua said to 
him, ‘Reverend Rabbi, no need to put your thoughts into words. I know them. You want my opinion 
on the Creation, on the nature of Alaha, and on the relation of Man to Alaha. My answers will be not 
opinions, but the Truth.’ The bewildered Rabbi nodded that these were indeed his questions.  
‘Beloved  ones,’ said  Joshua, ‘all  of  you.  The  real  nature  of Alaha in  His  Infinite  Be-ness  no 
human  being  can  comprehend.  What  I  want  you  to  know  is  that Alaha in  His  Be-ness  is  Self-
sufficient, Omnipotent,  Omniscient,  and  Omnipresent;  He  is  in  His  Plurality  in  His  Self-conscious 
Divine Spirit Beings, and in His Divine One-ness.  
‘Alaha is the everlasting Life-Light; the Absolute Infinite Selfhood.’ 
‘Alaha in  His  absolute  Self-sufficiency  expresses  His  Will-pleasure  to  manifest  His  total 
Wisdom and His Almightiness in creating the worlds of existence within His Divine Self.’ 
‘Alaha vibrates  His  Will-pleasure  in  Himself  to  create  the  worlds  of  existence,  and  Divine 
Spirit  Beings—in  His  Divine  One-ness—co-vibrate  His  Will-pleasure  and  thereby  become  the 
Creator-Archangels of the Archangelic Orders.’ 
‘The  Will-pleasure  of Alaha and  of  the Holy  Archangels  to  create  causes  the emanation from 
Alaha and  from  the  Holy  Archangels  of  the  Mind  Supersubstance  which Alaha and  the Holy 
Archangels, as Lords of the Mind-elements, use continuously in creating the universes and everything 
existing in them according to Alaha’s Divine Plan.’ 
‘The Will-pleasure of Alaha to manifest Himself in Himself presents Alaha in His dual nature 
as  the El Shaddai (The  Logos)  and  as  the Shekhinah (Holy  Spirit).  The  Holy  Archangels, the 
Creators, are both Logoic and Holy Spiritual. 
‘Alaha and  His  Holy  Archangels  in  His  One-ness  were  ever,  are  now,  and  will  be  in  eternity 
creating and sustaining the worlds of existence. Using their and Alaha’s total Wisdom in the worlds 
of Laws, Ideas, Principles and Causes, in their Almightiness they unfold in the time and space-place 
worlds the living forms of all the phenomena of life.’ 
‘It  was Alaha’s Will-pleasure  to  create  human  beings  in  His  image  and  according  to  His 
likeness.’ 
Then  Alaha  said, ‘Let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  and  according  to  our  likeness...  So  Alaha 
created man in his image, and according to his likeness, in the image of Alaha he created him; male 
and female created he them. (cf. Gen. 1:26—27) 
‘My beloved ones, all of you. We are all offspring of Alaha, Alaha’s image as Ego Spirit-Soul-
Selves,  living  in  His  Divine  Selfhood  in  His  Divine  One-ness.  As  Spirit-Soul-Egos  we  are  all 
immortal Gods. But as a human being our petty time-and-place self, in our material body, in our body 
of emotion, and in our body of mind-thoughts, is continually changing, and our human personality is 
wrapped  in  veils  of  darkness  and  illusion  until  we  free  the  personality  self  from its  illusions, 
transmuting it to its real nature, the Ego-Spirit-Soul-Self. Then the phenomenally mortal self will be 
immortal again and the perishable human body  will  yield to the human-in-form Spirit-Soul body (if 
we can call it body?) in its human Spirit body which is incorruptible. Already you live in such a body. 
Corruptible are  only  the  gross  material  body  and  the  bodies  of  emotions  and  of  thoughts.  The 
corruptible  bodies are  composing  the  time-and-place  character  of  the  human  personality  in  its  dual 
nature. The human personality in the worlds of existence is under the law of duality in its One-ness. It 
is  the  mundane, continuously  changing,  perishable  expression  of  the  immortal  Divine  Spirit-Soul-
Ego-Self. 
‘Alaha created  man  in  His  image,  in  plurality  and  in  One-ness.  In Alaha’s Plurality  are  His 
Holy  Archangelic  Orders  in  His  Divine  One-ness.  In  Man’s plurality  are  his  elementals  in  his one-
ness as a human time-and-place personality.’ 

152 
 
‘Alaha gave Man the privilege to use at will His Holy Mind Supersubstance, Alaha’s formless 
Mind-Light  Vitality,  in  the  creation  of  his  or  her  elementals,  which  are  living  entities,  virtuous  or 
base, defining the character of his personality. 
‘Alaha gives to Man His Holy Mind-Light Vitality to be used both by the Holy Archangels, to 
create  and  sustain  the  human  bodies  in  which  he  lives,  and  by  Man  himself  to  create  his  or her 
elementals that compose the human personality. 
‘In the worlds of existence, the human being receives through the five senses presentations of 
everything  material  and  visible  that  the  Holy  Archangels  have  created  in  nature.  Using the  Mind 
Supersubstance  of Alaha subconsciously  Man  creates  living  entities,  elementals, composing  the 
character of his personality. 
‘Everything  in  nature  that  attracts  our  attention  or  excites  our  desire  to  know  or  to  possess 
causes  the  creation  of  an  elemental  from  the  Mind  Supersubstance  and  these  elementals compose 
subconsciously our human character.’ 
‘There  are  two  kinds  of  elementals:  Those  that  are  base,  the  human-in-nature  demons;  and 
those that are pure, the human-in-nature angels. In both there are many degrees of force, activity, and 
effect.’ 
Of the base or evil elementals Joshua said in Greek and more forcefully in Aramaic, too 
 
When an unclean spirit goes out of a man, 
he goes through dry places, seeking rest, and 
finds none. Then he says, ‘I will return 
to my house from which I came.’ And when 
he comes, he finds it empty, swept and put in 
order. Then he goes, and takes with him 
seven other spirits more wicked than himself, 
and they enter and dwell there: and the last 
state of that man is worse than the first. So 
shall it also be with this wicked generation. 
(Matthew 12:43-45) 
  

153 
 
‘So a human being in his or her personality time-and-place self, as an image of Alaha, is in his 
plurality and in his one-ness, his one personal self. The time-and-place personal self is part of the real 
Self,  as  the  Life-Light  in  a  human  being.  The  Life-Light  is,  however,  over shadowed  by  the  
constantly changing personality self, composed by the personality’s plurality, the elementals, the sum 
total of which the personality self believes to be.’ 
‘No  one  can  truly  possess  anything  made  of  gross  matter,  though  he  may be  deceived  by the 
emotion-thought  elementals  living  in  his  subconsciousness,  into  supposing  he  can.  But  can anyone 
take with him after the death of the gross material body anything gross material? Does the Soul-Ego-
Self after the death of the gross material body take jewels, gold or money, finery, fortune or treasures 
to the worlds of the other dimensions?’ Said the God-man in Greek and Aramaic, 
 
 
Do not lay up for yourselves treasures 
on Earth, where moth and rust destroy, and 
where thieves break in and steal; but lay 
up for yourselves treasures in Heaven, where 
neither moth nor rust destroys, and where 
thieves do not break in and steal. For where 
your treasure is, there your heart will be also. 
(Matthew 6:19-21) 
 
 
‘But Malpana Rabbi,’ asked the Israelite Rabbi, ‘what are “treasures in Heaven” compared with 
“treasures on Earth”’? 
‘Treasures?’ said  the  God-man, ‘Gross  material  treasures  have,  as  everything  must  have  in 
order  to  exist  in  the  gross  material  world,  a  form  with  gross  matter  in  and  around  it.  This  matter  is 
quickly or slowly, but SURELY and constantly changing. The law of dissolution and decay prevails, in 
the course of time, over everything gross material. The Form, which is invisible to the human eye, is 
incorruptible and unchanging in the Spirit and in the Noetic worlds—in the total Wisdom of Alaha.’ 
‘The  gross  material  world  is  not  the  only  world  of  existence  in  which Alaha and  the  Holy 
Archangels  have  created  mountains  and  rivers,  forests  and  oceans  and  all  the  phenomena  of  life in 
their many forms, animal, vegetable, and mineral. Many other worlds of existence offer to the human 
consciousness presentations, forms, phenomena of life, and a sense of time and place.’ 

154 
 
‘In  the  gross  material  world light  exists  only  as  a  very  limited  luminosity  emanating  from the 
sun or from gross material objects which are combustible, vibrating to the frequencies of the element 
of fire. But these are not the only sources of light.’ 
‘For  there  are  other  worlds  of  existence  in  which  everything  is  self-lighted.  These  are  the 
worlds of the Mind substance and the Mind Supersubstance and the Mind substance Vitality, which is 
Light.’ The God-man said: ‘In the house of my Father Alaha are many mansions. In the Kingdom of 
the Heavens, which is in the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self of every human being, there are the real treasures.’ 
And Joshua said in Greek and Aramaic, 
 
Again, the Kingdom of the Heavens is like a 
merchant seeking beautiful pearls, who, 
when he had found one pearl of great price, 
went and sold all that he had, and bought it. 
(Matthew 13:45-46) 
 
 
‘The Kingdom of the Heavens in this parable is in you. It is you as Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self and it 
is this Self that is the pearl of great price. There is nothing more precious. 
‘When a man as a petty personality understands what the real values in life are, and when he is 
free from illusions and evil thoughts and emotions, making good use of Mind, thinking reason ably, 
and  developing his  latent  ability  to  consciously  control  the  skill  of  visualization,  he  will  then 
consciously  create  durable  and  powerful  thought-forms  corresponding  accurately  to  the  material 
things.  In  time,  and  with  practice,  visualization  in  introspection  awakes  in  him  his  real  Spirit-Soul-
Ego-Self. He awakes in himself the Kingdom of the Heavens in his Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self.’ 
 

155 
 
But seek first the Kingdom of Alaha, and Alaha’s righteousness; and all things shall he added to you, 
(Matthew 6:33) 
 
‘Awakening  in  himself  his real  Self,  his  Spirit-Soul-Ego,  a  man  becomes  the  master  of  and a 
source of Mind Vitality from which all gross material things are made. Thus he becomes the master 
of  materialization able to  materialize  Mind  Vitality  into  any  gross  material thing.  He  can transmute 
lead into silver or gold.’ 
The God-man continued to describe the psychical, noetical, and Noetic worlds of existence; the 
house of his Father Alaha with its many mansions. 
Hearing  a  noisy  commotion  in  the  yard,  where  many  had  gathered  seeking  the God-man, 
Joshua ended this lesson and went to them with Yiohannan, Simon, and the two Rabbis. 
Yiohannan and Simon helped the sufferers approach Joshua, who forgave their sins and healed 
them. Two, who had been born blind, were brought to him. Touching their heads with his right hand 
he gave them sight. A young girl with one leg atrophied and shortened came to him on crutches and 
he  caressed  the  shortened  leg  and  she  walked  without  support.  And  many others  seriously  ill  or 
impaired he healed, more than twenty that day. 
The  Israelite  Rabbis  stared  at each  other in  amazement.  One  said  to Joshua, ‘Malpana Rabbi, 
the Essenes say that you are the Mshiha. Is this true?’ The God-man only smiled. But Yiohannan said 
to him, ‘Reverend Rabbi, could one expect more from the Mshiha?’ 
And  so  they  left,  unwilling  to  accept  Joshua  as  the  Messiah.  Said  one  to  the  other, ‘We must 
admit that this young Essene Rabbi is a great healer and a persuasive teacher, but that is all he is. He 
cannot be the expected One, the Mshiha. The Mshiha would not come as a handsome young man, so 
cheerful and tolerant; forgiving sins as if  he were Alaha. No, the expected One would be grave and 
forbidding with a long beard and a stern and severe manner. And the expected One surely would not 
be  a  heretic  Essene.  Hasn't  the  Sanhedrin  already  denounced this  fellow  as  an   Archdemon 
commanding  demons?  Maybe  he  is  even  healing  through  the demons.  And  surely  one  day  soon  the 
Sanhedrin will demand his death.’ 
The other Rabbi who had listened to this in silence now said, ‘For myself I do not believe he is 
in league with demons. No, he is not the Mshiha, but he is a man of Alaha. Doesn't he call very often 
on  the  name  of Alaha? Would  an  Archdemon  do  that?  And  the  demons, those destroyers,  do  not 
heal.’ 
But  the  other  Rabbi  interrupted  angrily. ‘Enough!  Do  you  dare  to  say  that  the  wise  Rayis 
Rabbis  of  the  Sanhedrin  are  wrong  and  you  are  right?  Do  not  repeat  what  you  have  said  to  me to 
anyone, or the Sanhedrin will surely excommunicate you. They have already done it to two ordinary 
citizens. I tell you, the Sanhedrin has already decided to kill this dangerous man, who teaches that we 
must love our enemies and pay taxes to Caesar, as a mortal threat to our sacred cause of expelling the 
Romans from Palestine.’ 
 
 
 
  

156 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX   Joshua, the God-Man, Explains Life and Death 
[JOSHUA INSTRUCTS HIS DISCIPLE-HEALERS ON LIFE AND DEATH. 
TEACHES THEM HOW TO RAISE CONSCIOUSNESS. 
DELIVERS THE PARABLE OF THE LOST SON.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One afternoon, in the synagogue hall, a noisy argument erupted among the Essene disciple-healers on 
the  subject  of  life  and  death.  When  the  Israelite  disciple-healers  arrived  with  a guest,  the  Essenes 
thought it best to postpone their dispute. 
As  Joshua entered accompanied  by  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel,  Yiohannan,  Simon,  Is-shaak and 
Manasseh, there were more than a hundred and fifty persons present, many standing. From the pulpit 
Joshua with arms raised recited in Aramaic his worship prayer to Alaha. 
 
 
Our Father in Heaven. 
Your name is most Holy. 
Your Kingdom is here. 
Your Will is done in the Heavens 
and on Earth. 
Because yours is the Kingdom 
and the Power and the Glory. 
Forever and ever. Amen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘My  beloved  ones.  The  Absolute  Infinite  Be-ness, Alaha,  is  the  Omniscient,  Omnipotent, 
Omnipresent Reality. Alaha in His Absolute Divine Selfhood is Self-sufficient.’ 
‘Alaha in His  Plurality and in  His Divine One-ness expresses  His Will-pleasure to manifest in 
Himself His total Wisdom and His Almightiness.’ 

157 
 
‘Alaha, vibrating His Will-pleasure in Himself, causes the co-vibration of His Will-pleasure for 
manifestation  to  Beings  in  His  One-ness,  the  Archangelic  Order  of  the  Principalities, His  Holy  Co-
Creators. 
‘Alaha in  His  Will-pleasure  for  manifestation  reveals  Himself  also  as  the El Shaddai,  the 
Logos, and as the Holy Shekhinah, the Holy Spirit.’ 
‘Alaha as  the  Holy  Beingness,  as  the  El  Shaddai  and  as  the  Holy Shekhinah,  with  His  Holy 
Archangels  co-vibrating His  Will-pleasure  to  express  His  total  Wisdom  and  His  Almightiness, 
reveals Himself also as Life-Light. 
‘Alaha is the everlasting Life. 
‘The total Wisdom of Alaha and His Almightiness are clearly seen in all the phenomena of life 
on Earth.’ 
‘Alaha is Spirit.’ 
‘All  the  Beings  in Alaha’s One-ness  are  immortal  Beings,  Superconsciously  aware  of  their 
Archangelic  Selves  and  of  their  Archangelic  Almightiness.  All  the  Archangelic  Beings  in  all  the 
Archangelic  Orders,  co-substantial  with Alaha, enjoy Alaha’s everlasting  Life  in Alaha’s Will-
pleasure for manifestation.’ 
The human being is an immortal Spirit-Soul-Ego-Being, the image of Alaha, enjoying Alaha’s 
Selfhood,  manifesting  a  human  Ego-Self.  The  nature  of  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego  is Alaha’s everlasting 
Life. 
‘Alaha in  His  Spirit-Selfhood  is  the  latent  Reality  as  Life,  immortal  and  everlasting. Human 
intelligence cannot discern this Reality, nor can human intelligence discern its own Spirit-Soul-Ego-
Self.’ 
‘My beloved ones. All of you are Spirit-Soul-Ego-Selves, the immortal offspring of Alaha, our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  all  of  you  are Alaha’s image  and Alaha’s likeness.  You  are  the sons  and 
daughters of our Heavenly Father.’ 
‘As Alaha lives in His Plurality in His One-ness with His Holy Archangels, so you live as one 
entity in its plurality. Many Spirit Beings of whom you are unaware are in your Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self. 
Some  become  your  children.  In  the  plurality  of  your  personality  are  many,  many  living elementals 
you have created with your desires, your emotions, and your thoughts. 
‘In  your  bodies  are  Archangels  and  Angels.  They  have  created  your  bodies  and  sustain them 
from the moment you enter them; from your birth in the gross material body as a spermatozoon until 
you leave the body in “death”. 
‘When  the  Holy  Archangels  gave  to  a  Ray  of  your  real  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self  bodies  to  live in, 
you became a time-and-place ego-self, your personality.’  
‘Death as the annihilation of your Ego-Self, of your personality, is impossible, for the Ego-Self 
is Immortal Spirit. Spirit is the life-giving principle.’ 
‘The  gross  material  body  with  its  five  senses  gives  the  time-and-place  petty  human  self 
impressions, presentations, and sensations, awakening human consciousness. All gross matter created 
by  the  Holy  Archangels  gives  sensory  impressions  and  very  often  excites  in  human beings  desires; 
desires to know, to have, and to keep. 
‘Most  human  beings  become  slaves  to  their  desires.  After  a  man  obtains  what  he  desires, he 
becomes  the  slave  of  his  possessions.  These  are  his “treasures  on Earth”.  The  time-and-place 
personality  lives  in  great  confusion,  the  slave  of  illusions,  for  nothing  gross  material  and  three 
dimensional is his; not even what he calls “his” material body.’ 
Then he spoke a parable to them, saying, ‘The ground of a rich man yielded plentifully. And he 
thought within himself, saying, “What shall I do, since I have no room to store my crops?” So he 
said, “I will do this; I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there I will store all my crops 
and  my  goods.  And  I  will say to  my  Soul, ‘soul,  you  have  many  goods  laid  up  for many  years; take 
your ease, eat, drink, and be merry!’” But Alaha said to him, “You fool, this night your Soul will be  

158 
 
required of you; then whose will be those things, which you have provided?” So is he who lays up 
treasure for himself on Earth, and is not rich toward Alaha.’ (Luke 12:16-21)  
‘Man fears death because he lives in the illusion that he is the gross material body and that body 
must  sooner  or  later  perish.  My  beloved  ones,  offspring  of Alaha and  image  and  likeness  of  our 
Heavenly Father, wake up to the everlasting Reality. You are not your gross material bodies. You are 
not  only  flesh,  bone,  blood,  skin,  hair.  Even  the animals  have  all  that.  But you  are  Self-conscious 
beings, and no animal is that.’ 
‘Every  human  being SHOULD,  and CAN,  unfold  in  his  consciousness,  his  Divine  nature,  the 
Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self.  Most  people  do  not  live  Self-consciously,  but  subconsciously  in their gross 
material bodies. But by making proper use of the Mind Supersubstance, that most precious gift Alaha 
has   bestowed   upon   Man,  a   human   being   can   develop   his   personality’s subconsciousness to 
consciousness  and  to  Self-consciousness  and  in  time  to  Self-Superconsciousness.  And  thus  he 
transmutes his petty self into his real Self, his Divine, immortal everlasting Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self. 
‘The  first  step  is  to  learn  to  concentrate  the  mind  for  a  given  and  definite  period  of  time on 
some gross material object. Later you can concentrate on a virtue.’  
‘With  some  mastery  over  the  mind,  the  second  step  is  to  keep  it  completely  still  for  a  chosen 
time.’ 
‘The third step is to look at something using your Divine ability to observe, noting carefully its 
form,  its size,  its  texture,  its  shades  of  color.  And  then  closing  your  material  eyes  to visualize  it 
clearly;  its  form,  its  size  and  texture,  and  its  coloration.  And  for  a  time  determined by  you  to  see  it 
clearly in your mind.’  
‘The  fourth  step  is  to  meditate  on  Life,  on Alaha, clearing  the  mind  of  every  other  thought. 
Practicing meditation you must examine closely your desires, emotions, and thoughts. 
‘Visualization—not  uncontrolled  imagination  or  fantasy—is  the  golden  key,  opening  the gates 
to success in the material world and opening the gates to the Kingdom of the Heavens. 
‘After serious and patient practice, for quite a long time, one day effortlessly you will find your 
self, without fear, self-consciously out of your gross material body and then you will understand that 
you  are  not  your  body.  You  will  know  that  the  death  and  dissolution  of  the  body is  not  the 
annihilation of your personal self. After the death of your material body you will find yourself in your 
shell-hell  or  shell-paradise  enclosed  in  the elementals  you  created  on  Earth, human-demons  or 
human-angels,  on  the  psychical  plane  of Alaha, which  is  another  world  that the  Holy  Archangels 
have created.’ 
‘As   you   practice   meditation,   observation,   and   visualization,   you   will   discover   in   your 
personality the  thinker,  the  skillful  master  of  the  mind,  a  powerful man-God  able  to  materialize  the 
Mind Vitality into anything gross material.’ 
An  Israelite  Rabbi  asked  the  God-man, ‘Malpana Rabbi,  have  any  of  your  disciples  achieved 
out-of-the-body Self-consciousness?’ 
Joshua answered, ‘Yes, nine disciples present here can Self-consciously and at will leave their 
gross  material  bodies  and  visit  distant  places.  They  can  also  travel  to  the  psychical  and  the noetical 
planes. Six others in Bethsaida, fifteen in Yerushalayim, and two in Emmaus can leave their bodies 
and  go  great  distances.  A  sixteen-year-old  novice,  who  lives  in  Yerushalayim,  is  here with  us  in 
spirit, by my side, listening to my teachings. Two Israelite Rabbis in Yerushalayim and six Bedouins 
can also leave their bodies Self-consciously at will. Of course there are many more over the Earth and 
there were many in times past.’ 
‘For a human being is capable of having such out-of-the-body experiences, visiting other places 
on  Earth  while  remaining  in  his  material body  by  extension  or  expansion  of  his  Self-consciousness. 
By  expanding  his  Self-consciousness  in  many  places  at  once  while  remaining Self-conscious  in  his 
gross material body, he lives Self-Superconsciously as a human God. 
  

159 
 
‘A  man  as  a  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self,  an  immortal  Being,  on  this  Earth,  in  the  world  of 
separateness, lives a double life. He lives as a latent Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self temporarily giving life to a 
petty reflection of himself, in the bodies the Holy Archangels and Alaha created for the purpose. But 
that reflection of his real Ego’s Spirit-Soul Beingness will return to its everlasting Divine nature. So 
his  petty  ego-self  is  also  a  Self-conscious  immortal  Being,  part  of  his  real Spirit-Soul,  latent  Ego-
Self.’ And then Joshua taught them again the Parable of the Lost Son. 
A  certain  man  had  two  sons,  and  the  younger  of  them  said  to  his  father, ‘Father,  give  me  the 
portion  of  goods  that  falls  to  me.'  So  the  father  divided  to  them  his  livelihood.  And  not  many  days 
after,  the  younger  son  gathered  all  together,  journeyed  to  a  far  country  and  there  wasted  his 
possessions with prodigal living. But when he had spent all, there arose a severe famine in that land 
and he began to be in want. Then he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent 
him into his fields to feed swine. And he would gladly have filled his stomach with the pods that the 
swine  ate,  and  no  one  gave  him  anything.  But  when  he came  to  himself,  he  said, ‘How many  of  the 
hired  servants  of  my  father  have  bread  enough  and  to  spare,  and  I  perish  with  hunger. I  will  arise 
and go to my father and will say to him, “Father, I have sinned against Heaven and before you, and I 
am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired servants.” And he arose 
and  came  to  his  father.  But  when  he  was  still  a  great  way  off,  his  father  saw him  and  had 
compassion,  and  ran  and  fell  on  his  neck  and  kissed  him.  And  the  son  said  to  him, ‘Father,  I  have 
sinned against Heaven and in your sight, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’ But the 
father said to his servants, ‘Bring out the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and 
sandals on his feet. And bring the fatted calf here and kill it, and let us if j eat and be merry. For this 
my  son  was  dead  and  he  is  alive  again; he  was  lost  and  he  is  found.’ And they  began  to  be  merry. 
Now his elder son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and 
dancing.  So  he  called  one  of  the  servants  and  asked  what  these  things meant.  And  he  said  to  him, 
‘Your brother has come, and because he has received him safe and sound, your father has killed the 
fatted calf.’ But he was angry and would not go in. Therefore his father came out and pleaded with 
him.  So  he  answered  and  said  to  his  father;  Lo,  these  many years  I  have  been  serving  you.  I  never 
transgressed  your  commandments  at  any  time;  yet  you  never gave  me  a  young  goat,  that  I  might 
make  merry  with  my  friends.  And  as  soon  as  this  son  of  yours came,  who  devoured  your  livelihood 
with prostitutes, you killed the fatted calf for him.’ And he said to him, ‘son, you are always with me, 
and all that I have is yours. It was right that we should I make merry and be glad, for your brother 
was dead and he is alive again, and he was lost and is found.’ (Luke 15:1 J-32) 
‘In this parable,’ said Joshua, ‘the father is Alaha, our Heavenly Father. The Sons are the Spirit 
Beings in His One-ness. The father’s livelihood is the Life-Light and the Mind Supersubstance. The 
lost  son  is  that reflection  of  your  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self,  which  is,  by  free will,  humanized.  The 
prostitutes  are  the  prodigalities  in  life.  The  base  elementals  in  a  human being  created  from Alaha’s 
gift of Mind substance are the swine. The fatted calf, which is killed, is the gross material body, and 
the ring symbolizes eternity.’ 
‘Alaha,  our  Heavenly  Father,  most  loving  and  merciful,  waits  expectantly  for  the  return home 
of His prodigal sons.’ Thus ending the lesson Joshua went out into the courtyard with Yiohannan and 
Simon  and  there  healed  all  who  had  come  to  him,  forgiving  their  sins,  restoring them  to  health  and 
giving them his blessings. 
 
  

160 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN  The God-Man Shows the Way 
[JOSHUA THE GOD-MAN SHOWS THE WAY. HE TELLS HIS DISCIPLE-HEALERS 
WHAT WILL HAPPEN SOON IN YERUSHALAYIM.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thomas said, to him, ‘Lord, we do not know 
where you are going, and how can we know 
the way?’ Joshua said to him, ‘I am the way, 
the truth and the life.’ (John 14:5-6) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As Joshua entered the temple early one morning, he found Is-shaak by the incense burner reciting the 
Psalms  of  the  Prophet-King  David  and  Simon  on  his  knees  before  the  Holy  of  Holies, weeping,  his 
forehead touching the ground. His brother Manasseh stood by him. 
Joshua  touched the  boy’s head  with  his  right  hand  and  helped  him  to  his  feet.  Knowing what 
was in the novice’s mind, Joshua said to him, ‘Beloved one, this is the Will of God.  For that hour I 
have come to the world. Later I will explain this to you.’ 
Passing through the curtain without touching it, Joshua entered the Holy of Holies, and prayed 
silently to his Heavenly Father. When the Rayis Rabbi Samuel came with two Essene Rabbis, Joshua 
joined them and together they offered the morning service of worship to Alaha. 
Then Joshua  asked  the  companion-disciples  who  were  present  to  meet  with  him  in  an  hour  in 
the  synagogue.  Present  in  the  synagogue  that  morning  were  the  companion-disciples,  the  disciple-
healers  who  were  in K’far  Nahum  and  some  other  Israelites  who  had  been  healed by  the God-man. 
After reciting his worship prayer to Alaha, Joshua taught them in Greek and Aramaic. ‘Beloved, your 
life as a human being in a material body lasts only a few years. The body continuously changes and 
sooner  or  later  must  die,  but  the  human  being,  the  image  of  Alaha,  the real  you,  your  Ego-Self,  the 
Spirit-Soul,   latent   in   your   beingness,   is   immortal.   Part   of   your Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self   in   its 
incorruptible Spirit human Form is latent even in your gross material body.  
‘Your  gross  material  body  and  your  other  bodies,  the  work  of  your  brethren,  the  Holy 
Archangels,  who  create  and  sustain  them  for  you,  are  from  a  human  point  of  view  perfect,  but 
temporary and corruptible. 
  

161 
 
‘As  a  human  being  lives  in  the  gross  material  body  and  simultaneously  in the  bodies  of 
emotions and thoughts, a time-and-place self, petty and egotistic, is created.’ 
‘Its behavior and expressions, which are shaped by conditions and influences impressed on it by 
the gross material world of existence, may be either good or bad.’ 
‘Though  the  time-and-place  self  can  be  judged  good  or  bad  by  the  way  it  is  living,  its  real 
nature as part of the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self, is always pure and immortal. This I have taught you with 
the parable of the Prodigal Son.’ 
‘To  return  home  you  must refuse  to allow  the  egoistic  petty  self  to  make  bad  use  of  the Mind 
Supersubstance, creating bad elementals, human-in-nature demons. You must make good use of the 
Mind Supersubstance, which is a great gift from our Heavenly Father, Alaha, by right and reasonable 
thinking, creating good elementals, human-in-nature angels.’ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Then Joshua said to his disciples, ‘If anyone 
desires to come after me, let him deny him- 
self, and take up his cross, and follow me. For 
whoever desires to save his life shall lose it, 
and whoever loses his life for my sake will 
find it. For what is a man profited, if he gains 
the whole world, and loses his own Soul? Or 
what will a man give in exchange for his 
Soul?’ (Matthew 16: 24-26) 
 
 
‘Even  if  you  love  the  way  you  are living  now,  you  will  sooner  or  later “lose” the kind  of  life 
you are leading now. Everything is changing in the life of your petty, egoistic time-and-place self—
your  interests,  desires,  intentions  and  thoughts.  If  you  deny  your  petty  self  the  kind  of  life you  are 
leading now, by following my teachings—giving up uncontrolled desires, weaknesses, bad emotions 
and  thoughts—you  will  crucify  the  petty  self  and in time  you  will “lose” this  kind of  life.  But  your 
petty  self  is  not  your  real,  immortal  and everlasting  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self,  and when  you  crucify  the 
petty  self  it  will  not  in  reality  die,  but  will  be  resurrected  as  a  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self,  mighty  and 
immortal. In your real Self you will find the Truth and Life everlasting. 
‘Tomorrow  I  leave  for  Yerushalayim.  I  will  take  Yiohannan  with  me,  the  two  Yiacoubs  and 
Simon.  Twice  more  we  will  visit  Yerushalayim  and  return  to K’far  Nahum.  The  third  time  all  my 
companion-disciples,  my  mother,  my  aunt  Miriam  Shalome,  and  Maria  Magdalena  will  come with 
me for the Feast, but they will return without me. Later I will come in Spirit.’ 

162 
 
From  that  time  Joshua  began  to  show  to  his  disciples,  that  he  must  go  to  Yerushalayim,  and 
suffer  many  things  from  the  Israelite  Elders  and  Rayis Rabbis and  Scribes,  and  be  killed,  and  be 
raised again the third day. (Matthew 16:21) 
‘Beloved,’ said Joshua, ‘be calm. This is the Will of our Heavenly Father. It is for this hour that 
I have come to this world. Remember you are not your material bodies. You, as human Ego selves, 
are  parts  of  your  Spirit-Soul  Selves.  How  many  times  have  I  taught  you  this?  Now  is  the time  to 
prove it to you and to all human beings.’ 
All present were deeply moved by Joshua’s words and his prophecy that the Sanhedrin would 
kill him, and they could not hide their sorrow. 
‘You must not grieve,’ the God-man said. ‘Though my body will die on the cross, badly bruised 
and wounded, on the third day I will heal it, leaving only the marks of the nails on my hands and feet 
and  the  Roman  soldier’s spear  wound  in  my  side,  that you  may  know  me.’ Asking them  to  gather 
again that afternoon, Joshua ended this painful lesson. 
When the others had gone, Petros, greatly agitated, said, ‘Malpana, I do not agree that you must 
surrender to the Sanhedrin. We can escape to Tyre or to Sidon. Why must we go to Yerushalayim?’ 
Smiling  Joshua  replied, ‘Get  behind  me,  Tempter.  You  are  an  offence  to  me,  for  you  are not 
mindful of the things of God, but the things of men’ (cf. Matthew 16:23). 
Leaving  the  synagogue,  Joshua  saw  Simon  alone  in  the  yard, weeping  inconsolably.  Joshua 
went to the boy, embraced and kissed him, and said, ‘My beloved Simon, you are the youngest of my 
companion-disciples. I ask  you to understand what I have taught  you and to banish from your heart 
this sorrow. The Will of Alaha must be done.’ 
Simon  the  Canaanite  could  not  control  his  tears. ‘Listen  to me,  Simon,’ said Joshua. ‘Four 
months from this day you will see this body of mine nailed to a cross. Three days after you will see 
me  in  my  body  again,  here,  in  this  courtyard  where  we  stand  now,  resurrected.  I  will  embrace  you 
then and kiss  you as  I do now and no one and nothing will take from you  your joy and faith in me. 
You,  Simon,  will  lead  my  Assemblage  in  the  New  Order  of  worship  of Alaha in  Phoenicia and  for 
many years will serve me there, feeling me always with you. Come, child, a smile now.’ And Simon 
smiled through his tears looking into the eyes of his beloved Joshua. 
That  afternoon  in  the  synagogue  Joshua recited  his  worship  prayer  in  Aramaic  with  special 
emphasis on  
 
Heavenly Father, your Will is done in Heaven and on Earth. 
 
‘Beloved ones,’ said Joshua to those assembled there, ‘the Will-pleasure of our Heavenly Father 
to  manifest  Himself in  Himself  causes  the  emanation  from Alaha and from  His  Holy  Archangels in 
His Divine One-ness of Mind Supersubstance, which is everywhere in Alaha’s Omnipresence. Using 
this  Mind  Supersubstance, Alaha and  the  Holy  Archangels  create  the universes,  the  worlds  of 
existence and everything in them. 
‘Human bodies, the gross material with its etheric double, the psychical and noetical with their 
etheric doubles, are created by Alaha and the Holy Archangels with this Mind Supersubstance. 
‘Alaha is the Omniscient, Omnipotent, and Omnipresent Spirit Beingness. Alaha is Life. Alaha 
is Light. Alaha is Love.’ 

163 
 
‘The Holy  Archangels in Alaha’s One-ness, co-vibrating with Alaha’s Will-pleasure, are at all 
times creating, using Mind Supersubstance. The human being—the image and likeness of Alaha and 
of the Holy brethren, the Archangel-Creators—can also use the, Mind Supersubstance to create. What 
does Man create?’  
‘Using   the   Mind   subconsciously   he   creates   elementals,   living   entities,   angelic-in-nature 
demonic-in-nature,  that  shape  his  time-and-place  personality.  In  the  worlds  of  existence  a human 
being is dual: the real Self and the petty self. Duality is the law of all the worlds of existence. Part of 
a  Man’s real  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self,  giving  life  to  the petty  self,  remains  unobtrusively  latent  within 
him, while the petty self continuously changes behavior, character, and ways of living.’ 
‘When  a  human  being  awakens,  transmuting  his  petty  self  into  his  real  Self,  his  Spirit-Soul-
Ego,  he  becomes  Self-conscious,  powerful  and  wise.  Then  the  Mind,  in  all  its  modes  of existence, 
emanates directly from his real Ego-Spirit-Soul-Self. The lost son comes home.’ 
‘You, my disciple-healers, must use Mind substance-energy in the etheric doubles of your gross 
material  bodies,  storing  it  in  your  abdomens.  From  the  bellies  of  those  who  follow  my instructions 
will  pour  rivers  of  Mind-energy  as  living  water.  If  you  would  heal,  beloved  ones,  do every  day  the 
special exercises  I  have  taught  you.  You  must  not  waste  the  precious Mind  Vitality by  thoughtless, 
careless  living.  You  must  keep  in  check always  and  under  your  control  all  your emotions,  feelings, 
and  thoughts.  Become  masters  of  the  Mind,  controlling  Mind  vital  energy, and  become  masters  of 
visualization, creating in your minds precise images, accurate in form, size and color, so that you will 
be able to materialize these later, using Mind Vitality.’  
‘I have so much more to teach you, but you are not ready yet to understand me. Practice and if 
you are serious, disciplined, and observant, you  will find the way to the  Light. I have given  you the 
keys. Now you must use them. In ten days we will meet here again. Tomorrow I go to Yerushalayim. 
Alaha be with you.’ 
 
  

164 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT  The Author of Life 
[THE GOD-MAN JOSHUA, THE MSHIHA, REASSURES HIS FRIENDS. 
HE GOES TO YERUSHALAYIM WHERE HE TEACHES. 
HE HEALS A ROMAN NOBLE AND RAISES ELIEZAR FROM THE TOMB.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And do not be called teachers; for one is your 
Teacher, the Christ. But he who is greatest 
among you shall be your servant. And who 
ever exalts himself will be abased and he who 
humbles himself will be exalted. (Matthew 
23:10-12) 
 
 
 
Very  early  the  next  morning,  long  before  sunrise,  Joshua  went  to  the  temple.  The  only  light 
came from a few, flickering candles but Joshua saw Is-shaak there on his knees, scrubbing the floor. 
Joshua  caressed  the  boy’s head  and  entered  the  Holy  of  Holies.  Manasseh  and  Simon were  helping 
Yiacoub harness the horses and load the cart for the journey.  
Samuel  rose  very  early  too,  and  when  he  entered  the  temple,  Is-shaak  told  him  where Joshua 
was.  Samuel entered  the  Holy  of  Holies,  where  Joshua  prayed  at  the  altar to  his Father, Alaha. The 
white-bearded  Rayis  Rabbi  knelt  before  the  God-man  and  in  a  voice  trembling  with  anxiety  and 
excitement,  said  to  him, ‘Beloved Mshiha, Beni Alaha, I  have  seen  you dematerializing  and  re-
materializing  your  body.  Must  you  submit  this  body  of  yours,  this  holy body,  to  the  torturers’ cruel 
hands, to be bruised, wounded, and destroyed? Can this not be avoided?’ 
  

165 
 
Joshua  helped  the  old man  to  his  feet  saying, ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi,  have  you  forgotten that 
this material body of mine is not my  Self? Sooner or later a material body must die. By  killing this 
body, they do no harm to me. And it is by “dying” that I will demonstrate the truth of my teaching. 
Three  days  after  they  kill  my  body,  I  will  resurrect  it,  healed  of  all  they  have inflicted  upon  it.  My 
dear Samuel, what I ask of you now is that you remain calm.’ 
At  sunrise  as  Joshua  and  the  Rayis  Rabbi  were  offering  to Alaha the  morning  service  of 
worship,  Petros,  Andreas,  Philippos,  Nathanael,  Matai,  Yiohannan  and  Yiacoub,  son  of Yioussouf, 
came to the temple. Petros spoke for them saying, ‘Beloved Malpana Rabbi, will you not allow us to 
go with you now to Yerushalayim?’ Joshua said to them, ‘Come. It gives me great joy to have you by 
my side.’ 
The  Rayis  Rabbi  provided  a  second  large  cart,  and  after breakfast  the  carts  with  the  two 
Yiacoubs  driving  set  off  for  Yerushalayim.  They  arrived  in  the  yard  of  the  Essene  See  in 
Yerushalayim about noon the following day. 
Yiassounai  had  Joshua’s rooms  tidy  and  clean  and  sweet  smelling  with  jars  of  jasmine  and 
jonquils  and larger  pots  of  basil  on  the  windows.  The  clay  jars  were  filled  with  fresh  water  and the 
table was laid with bowls of dates, fresh and dried figs, and sweet almonds. 
When  Joshua  went  to  his  rooms  after  lunch,  Yiassounai  followed  to  see  if  anything  was I 
needed. Joshua  tousled  his  hair,  smiling  his  sweet  smile.  The  boy  kissed  the  right  hand  of  the God-
man with great love and left with his heart overflowing. 
Simon visited Yiassounai in his rooms bringing Stephanos, whom Yiohannan had introduced to 
him. Yiassounai was delighted to meet Simon, and the three boys quickly became fast friends. 
‘Yiassounai,’ said Simon, his voice heavy with foreboding, ‘in K’far Nahum Joshua told us that 
the Sanhedrin will soon arrest him, abuse him, torture and kill him.’ 
‘Kill him?’ Yiassounai interrupted. ‘Who can kill the Mshiha, Simon? Joshua is the Beni Alaha. 
He  has  dematerialized  his  body  and  re-materialized  it  countless  times.  Why  in  Nazareth once  the 
Sanhedrin  seized  him  and  dragged  him  to  the  edge  of  a  cliff  intending  to  push  him over  and  stone 
him,  but  Joshua  dematerialized  his  body  and  re-materialized  it  in  the  Essene temple  before  Rabbi 
Davout, a mile away. So tell me, how can they arrest him? I know what Joshua said to you in K’far 
Nahum. As Spirit-Soul I was there with you.’ 
‘But  of  course,’ said  Simon, ‘Joshua  told  us  when  he  gave  a  lesson  on  the  immortality  of the 
Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self  that  there  was  a  young  novice  in  Yerushalayim  who  could  leave  his gross 
material body at will. He must have meant you.’ 
Yiassounai  was  reluctant  to  talk  about  it  further,  but  Simon  continued, ‘I  am  sure  of  it. 
Yiassounai  can leave  his  material  body  and  visit  distant  places  Self-consciously  and  often  visits his 
Beloved One, but I don’t think he dares to materialize another body and enter it. Maybe he can’t do 
that. So Yiassounai,' Simon continued, ‘you heard what Joshua said about the Sanhedrin; that they are 
going to kill him.’ 
‘But Simon,’ said Yiassounai quickly, ‘again I ask how can they kill him? He is the Mshiha, the 
Son of Alaha. Who has the power to kill the Son of Alaha? Of course they can murder his material 
body, but he told us himself that after three days he will resurrect it, healed of all injury. I don't say 
that what Joshua told us does not give my heart pain, but I think I grieve less| than you do, my dear 
Simon. I try not to think about it; for there is much I cannot understand.’ 
The  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim,  who  had  been  in  Bethania  when  Joshua  arrived,  went  to Joshua’s 
rooms  after  lunch  and  found  Joshua  there  with  Yiohannan,  and  Yiacoub. ‘Beloved Joshua,’ said 
Ephraim with tears in his eyes, ‘I bring you terrible news.’  
‘Reverend Rayis Rabbi,’ said Joshua, ‘I know.’ 
With  his  head  in  his  hands,  Ephraim  said  in  a  voice  choked  with  sobs, ‘Beloved  Mshiha, 
Eliezar, the brother of Martha and Maria, Eliezar whom you love, is dead. For three days now he has 
lain in his tomb, and his poor sisters are inconsolable.’ 
  

166 
 
‘Beloved Malpana,’ said Yiacoub, ‘shall we postpone the afternoon lecture to another day?’ 
‘No,’ said  Joshua, ‘call  the  disciple-healers  to  the  synagogue  this  afternoon,  but  tell  Petros, 
Andreas,  Mattai,  Philippos,  and  Nathanael  that  tomorrow  we  go  to  Bethania  to  wake  our  beloved 
Eliezar from his sleep.’ ‘To wake Eliezar?’ said Ephraim mystified. ‘But Eliezar’s body is three days 
in its tomb.’ 
‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi,’ said  Joshua  gently, ‘tomorrow  early,  after  the  morning  service,  you 
will go with us to Bethania and you will witness the power of the Son of Man, given him by Alaha 
over death.’  
Thomas,  who  was  late as  usual,  walked  in  to  hear  Joshua  say  that  they  would  be  going  to 
Bethania. He said in a low voice to Petros, ‘The Sanhedrin is looking for a chance to arrest and kill 
him. This is their chance. We are all going to Bethania to die with Eliezar.’ Joshua looked upon him 
with  pity  and  said, ‘They  will  kill ME,  Thomas, NOT  YOU,  and  not  until Alaha allows it.  If  you  are 
afraid, my dear, do not come with us.’ 
In the lecture that afternoon the God-man repeated the lesson that the gross material body of a 
man is not his Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self. 
‘Beloved,  the  Holy  Archangels  create  and  sustain  the  material  body  so  that  the  human 
personality  may  dwell  in  it,  but  only  for  a  while.  The  body  and  the  petty  personality  are  constantly 
changing. But in the personality’s ego-self is part of the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self, which is immortal. Its 
nature is everlasting  Life.  Human beings live in their corruptible bodies subconsciously, in a dream, 
deluded  by  illusions  and  by  changing  desires  for  what  they  would  call their “own”.  One  day the 
personality’s petty  self  will  awake,  wanting  to  know  its  real,  immortal Self.  Using Alaha’s gift,  the 
Mind,  properly,  Man  will  find  the  Truth in  him.  Using  his  Divine abilities  to  observe,  comprehend, 
meditate, and visualize, the petty ego-self will become a Self-conscious Ego as he unfolds in himself 
his Divine nature.’ 
After  the  lecture  two  carts  drove  into  the  yard  of  the  synagogue,  where  three  invalids  were 
waiting  for  Joshua.  In  one  cart  was  a  centurion  with  a  young  Essene  and  in  the  other,  five sword-
bearers. 
Joshua  healed  the  three  and  approached  the  centurion,  who  had  climbed  down  from  the cart. 
Before  he  could  speak,  Joshua  said  to  him, ‘Pax, semper  in  animo  sapientis  est  placidissima pax. 
Scientiam' (Peace be with you. Know that in the Soul of a wise man there is always the most gentle 
peace).  Joshua  took  the  young  Essene’s place  on  the  cart,  saying, ‘Cognosco (I know).  Let  us  go 
now.’ 
Octaviano  a  middle-aged  Roman  nobleman,  a  second  cousin  of  the  wife  of  the  Roman 
Procurator  and  Governor,  was  on  a  long  visit  to  Palestine  from  Rome  as  the  guest  of  Sallustius. 
Sallustius  was  a  wealthy  man,  living  in  a  large  house  with  extensive  gardens  in  a  suburb  of 
Yerushalayim, not far from the Essene See. 
Early that morning when Octaviano, who loved flowers, went out into the garden, he had been 
bitten by a venomous snake on the ankle of his right foot. He ran to the house in pain and great fear 
shouting  for  help.  Some  servants  had  rushed  back  into  the  garden  and  had  killed  the viper. 
Octaviano’s right  leg,  from  the  knee  down,  was  painfully  swollen  and  he  became  feverish, shaken 
with spasms and convulsions. The practitioners drew blood from the ankle to no avail. The man was 
in agony until, in the afternoon, he fell into a coma. The practitioners could offer no hope. 
When  the  God-man  entered  the  sickroom,  he  found  Octaviano  unconscious,  surrounded by 
Sallustius, the wife of the Roman Governor with her maid, her niece Veronica, nephew Flaviano, and 
two practitioners. Joshua raised his right hand, saying, ‘Pax vobiscum’ (Peace be with you). He went 
directly  to  the  couch  and  put  his  right  hand  on  Octaviano’s chest,  next  on his  forehead,  and  then 
passed it over his body from head to foot several times. Taking the nobleman’s right hand in his, he 
said, ‘Carus Octaviano, exsuscito’ (Dear Octaviano, awake). 

167 
 
Smiling,  Octaviano  opened  his  eyes,  and  Joshua  helped  him  stand,  for  he  was  completely 
healed.  Veronica  was  looking  at  the  God-man  with  love  and  admiration  and  Joshua  said to  her, 
‘Octaviano nunc bene est’ (Octaviano is well now). Veronica took his right hand, kissing it, while he 
placed  his  left  hand  on  her  head  and  blessed  her.  Her  brother,  Flaviano,  also  kissed  Joshua’s right 
hand and Joshua blessed him too, saying, ‘Flaviano, pax vobiscum.’ 
The wife of the Roman Governor was bewildered. ‘Essene Rabbi,’ she said, ‘how do you know 
our  names?’ Joshua  answered, ‘Cara  Claudia, ego  cognosco  nomen  tuam  etiam’ (Dear Claudia,  I 
know your name too). And then Joshua gave them all, in Latin, a lesson on ‘Veritas et vita in saecula 
saeculorum’ (Truth and the everlasting Life). 
He blessed them and departed leaving with them his great love. 
As  they  drove  back  to  the  Essene  See,  the  centurion  asked  him  how  he  came  to  know Latin. 
Joshua did not say that there is nothing on Earth unknown to him. Rather he said that he had learned 
it in the Essene school in Heliopolis in Egypt, where he had lived until he was twelve. 
Early  the  next  day  after  the  morning  service,  two  carts  belonging  to  the See  of K’far Nahum 
departed  for  Bethania.  In  one  were  the  companion-disciples  and  in  the  other  Rayis Rabbi  Ephraim, 
Joshua, and Yiassounai with Stephanos driving. 
Now a certain man was sick, Eliezar of Bethania, the town of Maria and her sister Martha. It 
was  that  Maria  who  anointed  the  Mshiha  with  fragrant  oil  and  wiped  his  feet  with  her  hair, whose 
brother  Eliezar  was  sick.  Therefore  the  sisters  sent  to  him, saying, ‘Mshiha,  he  whom  you love  is 
sick.’ When Joshua heard that, he said, ‘This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that 
the  Son  of  God  may  be  glorified  through  it.’ Now  Joshua  loved  Martha  and  her  sister and  Eliezar. 
So, when he heard that he was sick, he stayed two more days in the place where he was. Then after 
this he said to the disciples, ‘Let us go to Judea again.’ The disciples said to him, ‘Rabbi, lately the 
Jews  sought  to  stone you,  and  you  are  going  there  again?’ Joshua  answered, ‘Are there  not  twelve 
hours  in  the  day?  If  anyone  walks  in  the  day, he  does  not  stumble,  because  he  sees the  light  of  the 
world.  But  if  one  walks  in  the  night, he  stumbles, because  the  light  is  not  in  him.’ These  things  he 
said,  and  after  that  he  said  to  them, ‘Our  friend  Eliezar  sleeps,  but  I  go  that  I  may wake  him  up.’ 
Then his disciples said, ‘Mshiha, if he sleeps he will get well.’ However, Joshua spoke of his death, 
but  they  thought  that  he  was  speaking  about  taking  rest in  sleep.  Then Joshua said  to  them  plainly, 
‘Eliezar is dead. And I am glad for your sake that I was not there, that you may believe. Nevertheless 
let us go to him.' Then Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples again, ‘Let us go 
also, that we may die with him.’ So when Joshua came, he found that he had already been in the tomb 
four days. Now Bethania was near  Yerushalayim, about two miles away. And many of the Jews had 
joined  the  women  around  Martha  and  Maria, to  comfort them, concerning  their  brother.  Then 
Martha,  as  soon  as  she  heard that Joshua  was  coming,  went and  met  him,  but  Maria  was  sitting  in 
the house.  Then  Martha  said  to  Joshua, ‘Mshiha,  if  you  had been  here,  my  brother  would  not  have 
died. But even now I know that whatever you ask of Alaha, Alaha will give you.’ Joshua said to her, 
‘Your  brother  will  rise  again.’ Martha  said  to  Joshua, ‘I know  that  he  will  rise  again  in  the 
resurrection at the last day.’ Joshua said to her, ‘I am the resurrection and the Life. He who believes 
in  me,  even though  he  dies,  he  shall  live.  And  whoever  lives and  believes  in  me  shall  never  die.  Do 
you  believe  this?’ She said  to  him, ‘Yes  Mshiha,  I  believe that  you  are  the  Mshiha,  the  Beni  Alaha 
who  is  to  come  to  the  world.’ And  when  she  had  said  these things,  she  went  her  way  and  secretly 
called Maria her sister, saying, ‘The Malpana has come and is calling for you.’ As soon as she heard 
that, she arose quickly and came to him. Now Joshua had not yet come into the town, but was in the 
place  where  Martha  met  him.  Then  the  Jews  who  were with  her  in  the  house  and  comforting  her, 
when  they  saw  that  Maria  rose  up  quickly  and  went out, followed  her  saying, ‘she  is  going  to  the 
tomb  to  weep  there.’ Then  when  Maria came  where Joshua  was,  and  saw  him, she  fell  down  at  his 
feet, saying to him, ‘Mshiha, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.’ Therefore, when  
  

168 
 
Joshua saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her weeping, he groaned in the spirit and was 
troubled.  And  he  said, ‘Where  have  you  laid him?’ They  said  to  him, ‘Come  and  see.’ And  Joshua, 
the Son of Man, wept. Then the Jews said: ‘see how he loved him.’ And some of them said: ‘Could not 
this man, who opened the eyes of the blind, also have kept this man from dying?’ (John 11:1-37) 
Joshua,  accompanied  by  his  disciples,  the  Rayis  Rabbi  and  the  novices,  followed  Martha, 
Maria, and their Israelite friends to the tomb where Eliezar’s body lay. 
Yiohannan,  Simon  the  Canaanite,  Stephanos,  and  Yiassounai  stood  behind  the  God-man. 
Ephraim  stood  to  his  right  while  Maria  and  Martha  wept  beside  the  tomb.  Stretching  his  arms 
upward, Joshua said in Aramaic, 
 
 
Our Heavenly Father. Your will is done in 
Heaven and on Earth. All things have been 
delivered to me by my Father. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Then  Joshua,  again  groaning  in  himself,  came  to  the  tomb.  It  was  a  cave  and  a  stone  lay 
against  it.  Joshua  said: ‘Take  away  the  stone.’ Martha,  the  sister  of  him  who  was  dead,  said  to 
Joshua: ‘Mshiha, by this time there is a stench for he has been dead four days.’ Joshua said to her, 
‘Did  I  not  say  to  you  that  if  you  would  believe  you  would  see  the  Glory  of  Alaha?’ Then  they  took 
away the stone from the place where the dead man was lying. And Joshua lifted up his eyes and said: 
‘Father, I thank you that you have heard me. And I know that you always hear me, but because of the 
people who are standing by I said this that they may believe that you sent me.’ Now when he had said 
these things he cried with a loud voice: ‘Eliezar come forth.’ And he who had died came out bound 
hand  and  foot  with  graveclothes  and  his  face  was  wrapped  with  cloth.  Joshua  said to  them, ‘Loose 
him, and let him go.’ (John 11:38-44) 
With  their  eyes  full  of  fear,  Maria  and  Martha  removed  the  grave-clothes  from  the  face and 
body  of  their  brother.  Joshua embraced Eliezar,  kissing  him  and  told  his  sisters  to kiss  him too.  He 
asked  the  Israelite  friends  to  depart  to  their  homes,  so  Maria  and  Martha  could  be alone  with  their 
brother. 
Joshua  and  the  others  with  him  went  with  the  family  to  their  house.  Joshua  asked  Petros, 
Andreas,  and  the  Yiacoubs  to  buy  food  in  the town  and  bring  it  back  to them. That  evening  Joshua 
returned with  the  others  to  Yerushalayim.  They  were  all  in  high  spirits.  The  next  morning,  with 
Ephraim,  Yiohannan,  Stephanos,  and  Yiassounai,  Joshua  came  back to  Bethania  and  spent  the  day 
with Eliezar and his family. 
Many Israelites in Bethania believed in Joshua, and they came to the house with small gifts for 
him.  Some  of  them,  and  some  Essenes,  brought  ill  relatives  to  him  and  Joshua  healed them  all  and 
gave them his blessing and his great love. 
The  Essenes  and  Israelites  lived  peacefully  together  in  Bethania  although  the  Sanhedrin in 
Yerushalayim had spies there, who reported the strange events at the tomb of Eliezar. 
 
  

169 
 
CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE  The Conspiracy 
 
[THE SANHEDRIN CONSPIRE TO SENTENCE JOSHUA TO DEATH. 
HE IS WARNED OF THE EVENTS. 
JOSHUA ADVISES HIS FRIENDS IN BETHANIA TO LEAVE PALESTINE.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And do not fear those who kill the body but 
cannot kill the Soul. (Matthew 10:28) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Sanhedrin was the highest and the most powerful Israelite religious authority in Palestine. It was 
composed  of  thirty  Rayis  Rabbis,  all  Pharisees  and  Scribes,  who  were  personally  selected  by  the 
presiding Rayis Rabbi. Twenty-five of these Rayis Rabbis were counselors and five were judges. The 
Sanhedrin  strictly  observed  the  Mosaic  Law, as  it  was  written  and  as  it  had been  passed  down—
especially when it served their purposes. 
The  judges  of  the  Sanhedrin  had  the  power  to  impose  the  death  penalty—by  any  means, 
including  hanging,  stoning  and  crucifying—upon  Israelites  who  disobeyed  the  Mosaic  Law. Fifty 
executioners were appointed to execute the decisions of the judges. 
King  Herod  provided  the  Sanhedrin  with  hundreds  of  armed  men,  swordsmen  and  spearmen, 
placed under the Sanhedrin’s authority. 
The Sanhedrin had spies everywhere, even in the King’s palace and in the palace of the Roman 
Governor. These spies provided written reports on any activities they considered suspect. Nearly all 
Israelite  Rabbis  were  spies.  The  Essenes,  whom  the  Sanhedrin  considered  heretics,  were  a  favorite 
target  and  suffered  greatly.  The  Roman  Governor  had  his  own  spies,  mostly  Greek  and  Israelite, 
throughout Palestine. 

170 
 
On the day after Joshua had raised Eliezar, resurrecting his body, the whole event in great detail 
was reported to the Sanhedrin by the Israelite Rabbi who had witnessed the miracle. 
Kaiaphas,  the  Rayis  Rabbi  presiding  over  the  Sanhedrin,  read  the  report  with  rising  fury. He 
had seen too many similar reports on the teaching and healing of this Essene Rabbi called Joshua. He 
called for a meeting of the Sanhedrin that same day. 
Unable  to conceal  his  smoldering  anger,  Kaiaphas  rose  and  said  to the counselors and judges, 
‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbis,  this  young  Essene,  Joshua,  is  becoming  a  real  thorn  in  our side  and 
represents  a  grave  danger  to  our  plans.  Two  days ago  in  Bethania  this  heretic Rabbi,  servant  of  the 
Archdemon Beelzebub, raised from the tomb, where it had lain four days, the dead body of Eliezar, 
whose death was most certainly the Will of Alaha. Under Beelzebub’s authority and with his consent, 
he called the Soul of Eliezar back from Gehenna (hell).  
‘This  is  not  his  first  offense.  This  cursed  Archdemon  has  called  other  Souls  back  from 
Gehenna. I have a detailed report from our Rabbi in Nain, who was taking a dead boy for burial when 
this Joshua interfered. In terror the man heard the Essene Rabbi order the boy’s Soul to return to the 
body.  And  you’ve heard of the daughter of Jairus, the ruler of our synagogue in Yerushalayim, who 
was  wickedly  brought  back  from  death. When Alaha wills  a  person’s death, by  what  right  does  the 
Archdemon violate Alaha’s Law?’ 
‘It  is  not  news  to  us  that  he  has  command  of  demons.  We  have  many  reports  of  him  ordering 
demons  to  leave  those  possessed  by  them.  Fourteen  years  ago  when  my  father-in-law,  the Rayis 
Rabbi  Annas  presided  over  the  Sanhedrin,  he  heard  a  case  from  the  country  of Gadarenes.  This 
Archdemon  ordered  a  legion  of  demons  to  depart  from  the  body  of  one  possessed  and  to  enter  the 
bodies  of  a  herd  of  swine.  A  large  number  of  the  swine,  unwilling  to accept  the  demons  in  their 
bodies,  ran  off  a  cliff  into  the  lake  and  drowned.  The  owners  of  the swine  were  outraged.  Some  of 
you remember that we decided then to rid ourselves of this man, and the judges agreed unanimously, 
ordering the executioners to arrest him secretly and to stone him to death. Fifteen of our men arrested 
him in Nazareth, where he was living then, claiming to be the Son of Alaha. They dragged him to the 
edge of a cliff to stone him, but somehow he escaped. He simply disappeared as they were about to 
hurl him over the cliff. Soon he left Nazareth and has been living since in K’far Nahum. 
‘Admittedly  he  is  a  very  successful  healer,  but  it  is  only  his  power  over  demons  that  works 
these wonders. We have another, graver problem though and that is with his teachings, which pose a 
most  serious  threat  to  our  plans  to  one-day  drive  these  Romans  from this  Holy  place.  We know  the 
Romans  to  be  our  enemies,  invaders  and  arrogant  conquerors.  He  claims  they  are  our brothers,  the 
offspring  of Alaha.  The man is  mad.  Our  spies  ask  him  if it  is  right  and  just to  pay taxes  to  Caesar 
and he replies most cunningly that we should give our money, which is Caesar’s, to Caesar, and give 
what is Alaha’s to Alaha. 
‘He  teaches—I  have  it  in  writing  from  many  of  our  spies—“Love  those  who  call  themselves 
your enemies”—as if he had no enemies. “To him who slaps your cheek,” he says, “turn your other 
cheek.” Is this simply insanity? Isn't he demanding our submission to Roman authority? 
‘He has healed the servant of a Roman centurion in K’far Nahum. The Centurion, our enemy, 
has  been  posing  as  a  lover  of  Israelites,  even  building  them  a  synagogue  in  a  village  near K’far 
Nahum  and  of  course  the  stupid  fish  took  the  bait.  This  Joshua  has  healed  many  Romans. The  day 
before he raised Eliezar from the dead, he healed a noble Roman who was dying from a snakebite in 
the presence of the wife of the Roman Governor, and her niece and nephew, who kissed his hand and 
received his blessing. He spoke to them in Latin so the servant who is our spy could not understand a 
word of it.’  
  

171 
 
‘He  calls  himself  the Mshiha and  the Beni  Alaha and  the  Essenes  believe  him.  Come now, 
could our Mshiha, the expected One, be an Essene heretic? Yet, many  Israelites seeing the wonders 
he works, are following him, believing like the Essenes, that he is the Mshiha, a man of Alaha.’  
‘This young Essene Rabbi, this Archdemon, is a serious threat to our plans. As soon as possible 
we must rid ourselves of him. Very soon I will call you together to plot our course. I think we should 
crucify  him.  And  I  think  we  must  quietly  kill Eliezar  too. This  meeting  must be  a secret among  us. 
We don't want to scare him off before we arrest him. Is there any objection to my decision to destroy 
this enemy of ours?’ 
There was none. All of the judges agreed with Kaiaphas and most of the counselors too, though 
a  few  gave  consent  only  with  their  silence.  The  next day  one  of  the  Sanhedrin  counselors,  a  good-
hearted Rayis Rabbi who  was a friend of the Essene Rayis Rabbi Ephraim, came secretly under the 
cover of darkness to the Essene See. A  year before, Joshua had healed his brother of epilepsy and a 
partial paralysis from which he had suffered for many years, and Joshua had healed his sister as well 
from a chronic and very painful skin disease. 
With Joshua present, the Israelite Rayis Rabbi told Ephraim what had transpired at the meeting 
of  the  Sanhedrin. ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim,’ he  said, ‘my  dear  friend,  and  you my  dear 
Joshua,  I  have  come  to  warn you  that  the  lives  of  Joshua  and  of  Eliezar  are  in  grave danger.  Dear 
Joshua,  last  year  you  healed  completely  my  brother  and  sister,  who  are  both  very healthy  now.  I 
could  not  live  with  myself  if  I  failed  to  warn  you  in  time  of  the  plot  against  you so  that  you  and 
Eliezar have time to escape. 
‘Kaiaphas is a cruel man without mercy. Not Essenes only, but many Israelites have suffered at 
his  hands.  And  many  Roman  soldiers  and  personal  enemies  of  Kaiaphas  have  been  cut  down in the 
night  by  his  roving  bands  of notorious  criminals.  You  must  believe  what  I  tell  you,  Joshua. I  am 
risking my own life to warn you.’ 
‘Kaiaphas  told  us  that  fourteen  years  ago  you  were  convicted  of  having  the  Archdemon 
Beelzebub  in  you  and  were  sentenced  to  death  by  stoning,  but  you mysteriously  escaped  and have 
since  lived  in K’far  Nahum.  Now  you  come  to  Yerushalayim,  preaching  and  provoking  the 
Sanhedrin. Kaiaphas claims that you have repeatedly and publicly insulted the Pharisees and Scribes, 
making angry enemies of them. 
‘There are many among us who love you, Joshua, as I do; but who can dare to defy Kaiaphas? 
You  move  freely  around  Yerushalayim,  even  going  into  Israelite  neighborhoods,  healing  and 
performing miracles; but isn’t this too a provocation to  Kaiaphas? Of course he  won’t risk ordering 
his executioners to arrest you in broad daylight, with so many Israelites following you. But Kaiaphas 
is a cunning man and a very clever one. He will find a way to arrest you in the night, to bring you at 
once  before  the  Sanhedrin,  where  you  will  be  convicted  of  breaches of  the  Mosaic  Law,  and 
sentenced to death by crucifixion. In the early morning he will take you before the Roman Governor 
for his approval of the decision which he will tell him the Sanhedrin has made. On the same day he 
will  crucify  you.  And  I  believe  all  this  will  happen very  soon.  Joshua,  I  fear  you  are  in  mortal 
danger!’ 
Throughout this account Ephraim was suffering such great agony that he was unable to conceal 
it.  The  God-man  remained  calm.  He  said  to  the  Israelite, ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi Gershom, I  know 
what  you are feeling. And  I knew of the sentence passed upon me by the Sanhedrin. It is all as  you 
have  said.  On  the  day  before  the  Feast  of  Passover,  while  you  are  busy preparing  the  unleavened 
bread,  the  Sanhedrin  will have  me  arrested  in  the  night,  led  to  me  by one  of  my  own  companion-
disciples, who has plans of his own. That same night I will be convicted and sentenced to death. Early 
the next day Kaiaphas and the judges will take me before the Roman Governor who will send me to 
King  Herod.  And  before  the  people  know  what  is  happening  the  executioners  of  the  Sanhedrin, 
protected by Roman soldiers, will crucify my body. 

172 
 
All this will come to pass.’ And in Aramaic Joshua said, 
Woe to the world because of offenses. For 
offenses must come, but woe to the man by 
whom the offense comes. (Matthew 18:7) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘Rayis Rabbi Gershom’ Joshua continued, ‘thank you for coming to us tonight. I know that on 
the day before the Feast of Passover the Sanhedrin will kill my body. I will make no effort to escape. 
It is for this hour I have come to the world; to prove that the material body of a human being is not 
the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self. That is all I can tell you now. You would not understand. But I can assure 
you,  dear  Rayis  Rabbi, your  good  heart  will  save  you.  I  ask  you  to be  good  to  all,  always,  for  all 
human beings, even while living in illusion, are children of Alaha.’  
‘You will live for many years, long enough to see where the Sanhedrin’s blindness leads them. 
You will behold the ruin of Yerushalayim, the slaughter of the multitude, and the fall of the temple of 
Solomon.’ And the God-man said in Aramaic,  
 
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit 
the Earth. (Matthew 5:5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rayis  Rabbi  Gershom  left  the  Essene  See in  confusion,  unable  to  grasp  what  the  God-man 
meant, and with pain and grief tormenting his good heart. 
The next morning after breakfast Joshua and Ephraim went to Bethania. There they persuaded 
Eliezar,  Martha,  and  Maria  to  escape  from  Palestine.  Ephraim would  arrange  to  send them  to  their 
uncle, Simeon, who was their mother’s brother. His family lived in the town of Larnaca on the island 
of Kittim  Cyprus. Kittim or Kopfer, part of the Roman Empire, lay west of Phoenicia. Many 
Essenes, Greek speaking Israelites, a few other Israelites, some Greeks and some Romans lived there 
in peace. The Roman Governor Quintus Maximiliano was a wise ruler, well-beloved.  
That  very  day  Eliezar,  Martha,  and  Maria  traveled  to  Sidon in  Phoenicia,  and  from  there they 
sailed for Cyprus, where they lived out the rest of their lives as devoted Christians. 
  

173 
 
CHAPTER THIRTY The God-Man’s Instructions 
[JOSHUA EXPLAINS THE LESSONS OF THIS DEATH AND RESURRECTION. 
HE RETURNS TO K’FAR NAHUM AND TEACHES. THE GOD-MAN HEALS BEDOUIN CHILDREN. 
IN A LECTURE HE REPEATS THAT ALL HUMAN BEINGS ARE OFFSPRING OF ALAHA.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seeing the time approaching when he as the Son of Man would leave the material world, 
Joshua gave instructions to his disciples and followers in Greek and in Aramaic. 
 
 
 
Behold, I send you to the world as sheep in 
the midst of wolves. Be wise as the serpents 
and innocent as the doves. Beware of men. 
They will deliver you up to councils and will 
scourge you in their synagogues. 
(Matthew 10:16-17) 
 
 
Joshua stayed in Yerushalayim for six days. Early on the morning of the sixth day, entering the 
temple, he found Stephanos, Simon, and Yiassounai praying silently. Lovingly, he patted the heads of 
the novices before entering the Holy of Holies to pray silently to his  Father Alaha. Yiassounai, who 
was  allowed  to  enter  there,  lifted  the  curtain  and  knelt  behind  his  Most Beloved  One,  resting  his 
forehead  on  the  first  step  before  the  altar.  As  the  boy  looked  up,  he saw  radiating  from  Joshua’s 
shoulders flames of living fire; yellow, red, blue, and violet. 
 

174 
 
Yiassounai,  backing  out  of  the  Holy  of  Holies,  found  Yiohannan  near  the  yellow  curtain.  Petros, 
Andreas,  Philippos,  Nathanael,  Mattai  and  Simon  sat  together.  Stephanos  was  putting  burning 
charcoal on the incense burner as the Rayis Rabbi Ephraim came into the temple. 
They  ate  breakfast  in  gloomy  silence.  Joshua  spoke: ‘Beloved,  you  grieve  because  I  told  you 
that the Sanhedrin will arrest me and crucify my body. But haven’t I told you also that I will resurrect 
my body and heal it and that with this body I will come to you, proving to you that you are your Soul-
Ego-Selves, not your material bodies, and your Soul-Ego-Selves are immortal, are Life everlasting in 
eternity!  How else shall I prove this Truth to you? Why doesn’t my promise bring great joy to  your 
hearts?’ 
‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim  and  all  of  you,  beloved,  be  calm;  rejoice.  Do  you  see  in me 
any fear or grief as I foresee the crucifixion of my body? My human sorrow, as the Son of Man, is for 
what  will  be  done  over  centuries to come  in the  name  of  my  Father  and in my  name. There  will  be 
war and persecution. Fathers will kill their children; children their parents. Brother will slay brother. I 
pray to Alaha to take from me this most bitter cup. But if this is His Will, His Will be done.’ 
‘In  my El  Shaddai Selfhood  are  all  human  beings,  good  and  wicked.  The  wicked  are  your 
brothers who have gone astray, who live in the darkness of ignorance but will, one day, find the way 
back  to  the  Truth.  You  must  love  those  whose  need  for  your  love  is  the  greatest.  I  have  told you 
many,  many  times  to  love  those  who  call  themselves  your  enemies  and  pray  for  them.  In  my El 
Shaddai Selfhood I am everywhere. Where two or three of you are gathered in my name, I am there 
also.’ 
At noon that day Joshua set out with his disciples for K’far Nahum. Having loaded the two carts 
with  provisions,  Yiassounai  and  Stephanos  offered  sweet  smelling  flowers  to  Joshua, Yiohannan, 
Petros  and  Andreas.  When  the  carts  disappeared  from  sight,  Yiassounai ran  to  his room  and  threw 
himself on his bed, sobbing. Stephanos left him alone, understanding all too well his feelings. 
The carts traveled day and night with only short stops to rest in Jerikho, Keruchim, Beth Shean, 
Sennabris on the south-west shore of the Sea of Galilee, Tiberias, and Magdala until they arrived in 
K’far Nahum an hour before dawn. The journey took one and a half days and two nights. Philippos 
and Simon, from time to time, relieved the Yiacoubs, who were driving. 
Joshua  went  directly  to  the  temple,  where  Is-shaak  and  Manasseh  were  cleaning,  and entered 
the  Holy  of  Holies.  Simon  went  to  his  room  to  get  a  few  minutes  rest  before  the morning  service. 
Petros and Andreas went home. When the Rayis Rabbi entered the temple for the morning service of 
worship to Alaha, Joshua, Simon and Philippos were waiting for him. 
After the service Joshua asked Yiacoub, son of Yioussouf, to call his disciple-healers together 
in  the  synagogue  that  afternoon  for  instruction.  There  were,  in the  synagogue,  more than  two 
hundred.  There  were  Essenes,  Israelites  and  the  guests  of  the  Israelite  disciple-healers. Many  were 
standing.  Among  the  guests  were  three  Israelite  Rabbis;  two  from  Bethsaida and  the  other  from 
Magdala. Joshua entered accompanied by the Essene Rayis Rabbi and by Simon the Canaanite. In his 
long,  snow-white  robe,  with  his  radiant  aura,  Joshua  looked  like an  Archangel.  Arms  stretched 
upward, he recited his worship prayer to Alaha. 
‘Beloved,’ he  said, ‘all  of  you,  offspring  of Alaha.  Remove  completely  from  your  minds  and 
hearts all ill will you harbor against any of your brothers.  Living in the material world, the world of 
existence, the world of separateness, you will have differences, but you must not let these differences 
take possession of  your hearts and minds and cause ill will and hatred for  your sisters and brothers. 
For  all  human  beings  are  brothers  and  sisters,  children  of Alaha,  our Heavenly  Father,’ Joshua  said 
emphatically: 
 

175 
 
 
You have heard that it is written, ‘You shall 
love your friends, and shall hate your ene- 
mies. But I say to you, love those calling 
themselves your enemies. Bless those who 
curse you. Do good to those who hate you, 
and pray to Alaha to forgive those who spite- 
fully use you and persecute you.’ 
(cf. Matthew 5:43-44) 
 
The Israelite Rabbis were disturbed by Joshua’s words and the Rabbi from Bethsaida asked to 
speak. ‘My dear Rabbi,’ he asserted, ‘is not what you are preaching in contradiction to Mosaic Law? 
You cannot  mean  what  you  say.  If  someone who  not  only  calls  himself  your  enemy,  but  is indeed 
your  sworn  enemy,  attacks  you  viciously  with  a  dagger,  stabbing  you,  meaning  to  kill  you, and 
though  badly  wounded,  you  manage  to  escape,  what  will  you  do?  You  know  he  will  try  again and 
perhaps succeed. Do you say you would just go on loving the fellow?’ 
‘Yes,’ Joshua  said  simply, ‘I  would  love  him  and  pray  for  him  to  our  Heavenly  Father Alaha 
that his heart may be cleaned of hatred, and his mind of illusions.’ 
But the Israelite Rabbi, angry and incredulous, continued, ‘And when he finds a chance to stab 
you again, this time fatally, giving you only a few agonizing minutes to live, will you not curse him 
then with your dying breath?’ 
‘No, I will not curse him,’ Joshua replied, ‘I will pray to our Heavenly Father Alaha to forgive 
him. For he is my brother, the child of my Father Alaha, who has gone astray.’ 
The other Rabbi from Bethsaida interrupted, saying, ‘Rabbi, if someone attacked me to kill me, 
and if he tried again, I would kill him. And I would be forgiven for  I killed only to defend myself.’ 
‘No,’ said the God-man emphatically. ‘The commandment given to Moses allows is clear. It allows 
for no exceptions. “Thou shalt not kill.”’ 
That  brought  a  cunning  smile to  the  Rabbi’s face. ‘But  dear  Rabbi,’ he  said, ‘didn’t  Moses 
himself, while in Egypt, kill an Egyptian?’ ‘My dear,’ said Joshua, ‘much that is written is symbolic. 
Moses killed no man. He killed the Egyptian Prince Kniu-Mu Mosis in himself, forfeiting his princely 
rights to become the leader of the Israelite slaves.’ 
There was a commotion outside and Joshua, wishing to end this argument, asked the guests to 
excuse  him.  Signaling  to  Yiohannan,  Simon  and  Philippos,  he  went  out  into  the  courtyard  where 

176 
 
there were  more  than  fifty  anxiously  awaiting  him.  The  Israelite  Rabbis  followed and  whispered  to 
each other as Joshua healed those afflicted, saying, ‘Your sins are forgiven.’ 
With the Rabbis looking on, Joshua healed three lepers and four who were blind, two of them 
from birth. Most of the sufferers had come great distances. Joshua gave all whom he healed his love 
and to everyone present, his love and his blessing. 
That night, three hours after sunset, the sound of camel bells and of a heavy cart pulled by oxen 
was  heard  in  the  yard  of  the  house  where  Joshua  lived.  Two  young  Bedouins  were mounted  on  the 
camels and the cart, driven by a middle-aged man, carried a woman, a fourteen-year-old Bedouin girl, 
and a boy of seventeen. The mother of Joshua opened the door with Maria Magdalena behind her. 
The young men ordered their camels to kneel and climbed down. They went to their mother and 
to  their  sister  and  brother,  both  of  whom  were  gravely  ill.  The  Virgin  Maria  went  to  the cart  while 
Maria Magdalena hurried to Joshua. 
When Maria had helped the mother bring the girl down from the cart, the eldest brother carried 
her  into  the  house in  his  arms.  His  younger  brother  carried  the  stricken  boy.  They  laid the  girl  on a 
couch and helped the boy to a stool. 
When Joshua came into the room, the eldest of the brothers, a man of thirty, bowed before the 
God-man. ‘Ussama, shlam  aleicum’ (Peace  be  with  you),  the  God-man  said.  As  the  second brother 
bowed  before  him,  Joshua  said, ‘Selim, shlam  aleicum.’ And  to  the  youngest,  patting  his head,  he 
said, ‘Trahir, shlam aleicum.’ The three brothers looked at each other in confusion; how did he know 
their  names;  they  had  never  been  in K’far  Nahum  before  and  had  come  from a  distant  Bedouin 
village near the banks of the river Euphrates. 
Joshua went to their mother, who held her daughter in her arms, saying, ‘Dear Sheficca, Alaha 
will  heal  your  dear  daughter,  Shamsa.  Have  faith  in Alaha.’ The  girl  had  suffered  for many  years 
from epilepsy and her right leg was paralyzed, atrophied, and shorter than the left. Her right hand too 
was  paralyzed  and  for  six  months  she  had  repeatedly  heavy  bleeding.  Joshua caressed  the  crippled 
leg,  which  became  the  same  length  as  the  other,  and  then  the  hand, which  he  held  in  his,  saying, 
‘Shamsa, my dear, you are well now.’ 
Helping her stand, he said, ‘Come, child, get up for you can walk.’ The girl walked around the 
room and returning to Joshua fell into his arms, weeping for joy. Joshua kissed her eyes. ‘Shamsa,’ he 
said, ‘go to your mother. Show her how strong you are and how happy.’ 
Then Joshua went to Trahir still seated on the stool. Trahir also had a shortened, atrophied leg 
and  a  painful  growth  as  big  as  an  egg  under  his  left  ear.  Joshua  put  his  right  hand  on the  growth, 
which  dissolved.  Then  he  caressed  the  atrophied  leg  to  make  it  whole. ‘You  too, dear  Trahir,  can 
walk. You have no need of those crutches in the cart. No one need support you. 
You can run. Come, run to your mother and your sister and kiss them. And Trahir, dear boy, no 
more tantrums from you and no more shouting. You must be quiet now and calm.’ 
Trahir fell into Joshua’s arms, sobbing and the God-man kissed him on his eyes. The boy kissed 
his  mother  and  sister,  and  his  mother  took  him  in  her  arms.  Beckoning  to  Ussama,  she whispered 
something  to him  and  he  went  out.  He  returned  with  a  small  wooden  box  which  he gave  to  his 
mother.  Sheficca  gave  it  to  Joshua  saying, ‘My  dear,  here  are  some  jewels  and  a hundred  silver 
denarii, that we give you with deep gratitude. I only wish I had more to give.’ 
Joshua took the box from her with thanks and handing it to Shamsa, he said, ‘Here, it is a gift 
from me.’ 
Selim too went out and came back with a gift, a basket filled with luscious dates, Joshua ate one 
and thanking Selim, gave the basket to Maria Magdalena, to take to the kitchen. 
Maria  Magdalena  offered  the  family  sweet  cakes,  red  wine,  and  salted  almonds.  Maria,  the 
mother of the God-man, with the help of Maria Magdalena prepared supper for them all, calling the 
driver in from the cart. 

177 
 
At  midnight  after  Joshua  had  given  them  all  his  great  love  and  his  blessing,  the  happy  family 
departed.  And  the  sweet  sound  of  camel bells  faded away  in  the  moonlit  night. Early  next  morning 
Joshua  went  to  the  Essene  temple  to  thank  his  Father Alaha for  his great  Mercy. Later  the  Rayis 
Rabbi and Is-shaak, Simon and Manasseh joined him for the morning worship service.  
Having heard the sound of camel bells the night before, the Rayis Rabbi was anxious to know 
who had come, and Joshua told him all about the visit of the Bedouin family.  
At the quay Joshua asked Yiacoub to summon the disciple-healers to the synagogue hall for a 
lesson in the afternoon. 
More than a hundred persons assembled in the hall. After his worship prayer to Alaha, Joshua 
said, ‘Beloved  ones.  Once  again  I say  to  you,  no  one  can  say  that  he  loves Alaha as  long as  he 
harbors  ill  feelings  in  his  heart  against  other  human  beings.  All  human  beings  are  offspring  of  our 
Heavenly Father. In Alaha’s One-ness all human beings are brothers and sisters.’ 
One  of  the  Israelite  disciple-healers  asked, ‘...and  those  of  an  advanced  age  are  fathers and 
mothers?’ 
Joshua replied emphatically, ‘No, all human beings are brothers and sisters. Only Alaha is the 
Father of all and Life is our mother.’ 
The Israelite disciple-healer interrupted, ‘Malpana, but surely Life is not Alaha?’ 
Joshua said, ‘Life is an aspect of Alaha, but Alaha is not only Life. If you wish you can say that 
Alaha is your Father-Mother.’ 
In Greek and in Aramaic he added: 
 
 
...and you are all brethren. Do not call 
anyone on Earth your father; for one is 
your Father, Alaha who is in Heaven. 
(Matthew 23:8-9) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘And I wish to repeat and say to you that your brother who calls himself your enemy is simply a 
brother  who lives  in  ignorance.  If  you  wound  the  body  of  an  enemy,  the  Holy  Archangels will 
continue to work in his gross material body, healing the wounds. Therefore, if you fight a brother, are 
you not fighting at the same time the Holy Archangels in his gross material body?’ 

178 
 
Alaha’s commandment  to  Moses  is  clear: “Thou  shalt  not  kill.” And  I  say  also,  you  must not 
fight  your  brother.  All  human  beings  are  your  brothers  and  sisters,  all  are  offspring  of  your Father 
Alaha who is in the Heavens and everywhere. 
‘Alaha grants his Mind Vitality equally to those who call themselves your enemies and to you. 
Every human being is granted Mind Vitality for his gross material body. It is granted in a number of 
ways: by breathing through the lungs, by breathing through the pores of the skin, by eating food and 
by drinking water and other liquids. These processes are often done instinctively and subconsciously. 
They  would,  however,  be  much  more  effective  if  done  Self-consciously.  It  is  animal  Mind  Vitality 
which the Holy Archangels, the Lords of the Elements, are using in creating and sustaining the gross 
material body. 
‘A disciple-healer can train himself and become a skilled master of Mind by visualization, as I 
have  taught  you.  He  can  store  Mind  in  great  quantities in  his nephes  khuf,  the  etheric  double  of the 
gross material body, or elsewhere. A disciple can use the Mind Vitality in healing. He can also use it 
to  build  an  elemental  of  himself,  enter  Self-consciously  the  elemental  and  visit in  it  distant  places. 
The skillful disciple can materialize the elemental of himself. The Mind Vitality can be used in many 
other ways, but I wish to warn you. Before a disciple should embark on further ways of using Mind 
Vitality  he  must  be  certain  that  he  has  annihilated  his personal egoism.  It  is  in  the  personal  egoism 
that the ensnarers, the tempters, Shettim and Mukuishim, the offspring of Lilith, are created.’ 
In the yard there were many suffering people, impatiently waiting for Joshua to heal them. The 
noise prompted Joshua to ask the disciple-healers and their guests to allow him to go and attend to the 
sick and suffering. 
More than thirty persons were in the yard and Joshua healed them all completely. Among them 
were two blind children; one was two, the other four years old. Joshua took them, one by one, on his 
knees.  He  was  himself  sitting  on  the  pavement,  playing  with  them,  caressing  and kissing  them  with 
great love, while the children’s mothers were kissing Joshua’s hands. 
Petros did not like to see Joshua sitting on the pavement playing with the two children, and he 
could  not  hide  his  displeasure.  Yiohannan  who  had  closely  observed  the  scene  laughed heartily  at 
Petros.  Joshua  handed the  children to  their  mothers,  got  up  and  said  to  Petros, ‘Unless  you  become 
like  these children,  you  cannot  enter  the  Kingdom  of  the  Heavens.  Petros, make  your  heart  the 
Kingdom of the Heavens.’ 
 
  

179 
 
CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE  The God-Man Reveals the Truth 
[HIS LAST TEACHINGS IN K’FAR NAHUM. 
THE GOD-MAN REVEALS THE TRUTH AND PREPARES FOR THE JOURNEY.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Watch and pray lest you enter into tempta- 
ion. The Spirit is indeed ready and willing 
but the flesh is weak. (Matthew 26:41) 
 
 
This was to be the last lesson the God-man would give to his disciples in K’far Nahum. It was a 
lesson on the nature of Alaha and of Alaha’s presence in His phenomena of life. More than a hundred 
came to hear the lesson; all of Joshua’s companion-disciples (with the exception of Judas the Iscariot) 
and  most  of  the  disciple-healers  from K’far  Nahum and  Bethsaida.  The  Rayis Rabbi  Samuel  was 
present, with two other Rayis Rabbis and four Essene Rabbis. They sat on stools and on cushions and 
a few stood. 
Having offered his worship prayer to Alaha, his Heavenly Father, the God-man said, ‘Beloved, 
all of you. Alaha, our Heavenly  Father, is the Infinite Divine Reality. Alaha is the Divine Selfhood; 
Self-sufficient  in  His  Omnipresent  Self-awareness,  in  His  total  Wisdom.  In His  Divine  Plurality  are 
the Archangelic, immortal Beings in His One-ness as Alaha Elohim. 
Alaha is  at  all  times  in  His  Omnipresent,  ineffable,  unutterable  Splendor-bliss  and  Grandeur. 
Alaha is  the  Absolute  Spirit  Be-ness  and  all  the  Spirit  Beings  in  Him  are Alaha’s Plurality  in  His 
One-ness. Alaha is the Absolute Omnipresent Spirit-Self. Alaha is Spirit.’ 
But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshippers of Alaha will worship Alaha, the 
Father,  in  Spirit  and  in  Truth:  for  the  Father  is  noticing  those  who  offer  to  Him  their  worship in 
Spirit and in Truth, (cf. John 4:23-24) 
‘Beloved,  all  of  you.  All  the  human  beings  are Spirit  Being-Selves  in Alaha’s One-ness  as 
Spirit-Soul-Ego-Beings. You are immortal offspring of Alaha in Alaha’s everlasting Life in eternity.’ 

180 
 
Thomas,  one  of  the  companion-disciples,  asked  leave  to  speak. ‘Malpana,’ he  said, ‘you have 
spoken to us often of Life everlasting in eternity. But can you tell us what that Life is? We understand 
that  while  we  are  living  in  a  gross  material  body,  we  are  receiving  impressions through  our  senses 
from  the  gross  material world.  What  we  experience  gives  us  our  conceptions of  place,  time,  and 
forms  animate  and  inanimate  and  the  feeling  of  living  in  our  gross  material  bodies.  In  the  material 
world we have light emanating from the sun and eyes by which to see, but sooner or later the material 
body with its sense organs is decomposed by death. What is left then? What remains that we can call 
“life”?’ 
‘Thomas, my dear.’ Joshua answered, ‘a century ago, did the gross material body you call yours 
exist?  And  yet  it  exists  now.  It  lives  and  you  live  in  it. Alaha, you  as  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self,  and  the 
Holy Archangels created it and sustain it so long as this is the Will of Alaha. After the death of your 
gross  material  body  you  remain:  you  as  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self,  the  real everlasting  Life-giving 
Ego-Self.  Have  I  not  said  to  you  time  and  time  again, “Do  not  fear  those  who  can  kill  your  body, 
cannot kill the Soul, for they cannot kill you?” I think, my dear Thomas, you have not understood the 
difference  between  Beingness  and existence.  The  Life  in  my El  Shaddai Self,  in  my One-ness,  in 
which you and every human being as Ego-Selves are, you cannot yet conceive.’ 
‘This gross material world is not the only world of existence in which you can live with a sense 
of  place  and  an  awareness  of  forms.  This  is  not  the  only  world  of  existence  in  which  you have 
impressions  given  by  light  and  by  forms.  There  are  other  Heavens.  In  the  house  of  our Father  there 
are many mansions. There are many other worlds of existence that present the experience of place, of 
light, and of forms. 
‘Your  material  sense  organs  are  very  poor  tools  for  perceiving  the  Truth.  Your  material  eyes, 
the two little balls of water, cannot behold the holy, inextinguishable, everlasting Life-Light, but they 
are not your only means to perceive light.’ 
‘Every  human  being  has,  and  has  always  had,  a  Spirit  human  Form  in Alaha’s total Wisdom. 
That  Spirit  Form  has,  and  has  had  in  it  always,  and  will  have  in  it  eternally,  the  whole circle  of 
existence,  the  whole  circle  of  human  possibilities  in  all  the  worlds  of  existence.  The gross  material 
world is but the least of these. In your gross material body there is another body identical in form to 
it. If you learn how, you can appear in it at any age, but always recognizably human. And there is in 
your  gross  material  body  yet  another  body,  in  the  human  form,  perfect  within  your  Guardian 
Archangel.  All  these  bodies  are  not  you.  They  are  created  and  sustained  for  you  by  the  Holy 
Archangels in their image and in the image and likeness of Alaha. The Spirit human Form, however, 
which  you  can  also  use  as  a  luminous  human  body,  that  is you.  You  can  call  this  luminous  Spirit 
human Form your Soul. 
‘Thomas,  my  dear,  the  awareness  you  have  of  being  in  a  place  and  of  receiving  impressions 
from  forms, you  will  continue  to  have  after  death  dissolves  your  material  body.  You  will  find  your 
self then in a much better world. If you did the exercises I have given you, you could live even now 
in that world Self-consciously. There are three of you here today and three others in our community 
who can live Self-consciously in these worlds of existence and there are many others in distant places 
who live simultaneously in the gross material world and in those other worlds.’ 
‘In the gross material world the Spirit-Soul-Self appears in its personality, creating a petty self 
which  contains,  as  a  latent  reality  giving  life  to  the  personality,  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self. Sooner  or 
later  every  petty  self,  by  annihilating  completely  its  time-and-place  egoism,  awakens his  immortal 
Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self.  I  have  given  you  exercises  in  introspection,  in  controlling and  mastering  the 
emotions and thoughts, and in mastering the Mind Vitality.’ 
Philippos,  who  was  in  complete  attunement  with  his  beloved  Joshua,  knew  that  Thomas  and  
some others among the disciple-healers could not grasp what the God-man was saying about the  
  

181 
 
nature  of Alaha and  about  Joshua’s nature.  Joshua,  aware  of  what  was  in  the  mind  of  Philippos, 
invited  him  to  speak. ‘Most  Beloved Malpana,’ said  Philippos, ‘help  us  to  understand  more  clearly 
Alaha, the Heavenly Father, and show us the way to approach Him and to worship Him.’ 
Smiling, Joshua replied, I am in the Father, Alaha, and Alaha is in me. I am in Alaha’s Divine 
everlasting  Selfhood  and  all  human  beings,  expressing  a  Self,  are  in  my El  Shaddai Selfhood.  All 
human  beings  are  in  my  One-ness  with Alaha.  Through  the  human  Self-consciousness  in  me  as  the 
Son of Man, you can attune yourselves to Alaha. Philippos, I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life. No 
one comes to the Father except through me' (cf. John 14:6). 
Stretching  his  arms  out  to  his  disciples,  Joshua  said, ‘Beloved,  wake  from  the  dream  and rise 
from the cradle of matter. Your material body is your cradle of flesh. Wake up.’ 
‘There  is  not  one  of  you,  as  I  have  taught  you  again  and  again,  who  is  not  in  my El  Shaddai 
Selfhood. Yes, not only the just but also the unjust, the transgressors of the Divine Laws whom you 
call “sinners”, these too are your brothers and sisters in their Spirit-Soul-Ego-Being.’ 
‘There are those living in the darkness of ignorance who will arrest the Son of Man. They will 
abuse  my  material  body;  they  will  bruise  it,  wound  it,  and  crucify  it.  In  three  days  I  will heal  and 
resurrect it, I will re-enter it, and I will come to you. I will leave the wounds the nails will make, and 
the tear in my side from a soldier’s spear, as signs to you.’ 
A disciple in great agitation rose and interrupted the God-man saying, ‘Malpana, we have seen 
you dematerialize your body. How shall you allow these wicked men to arrest you, to injure you, to 
murder you?’ 
Calmly  and  with  a  gentle  smile  Joshua  said  to  him, ‘But  my  beloved  one,  it  is  for  this  hour I 
have  come  to  this  world.  Haven’t  I  taught  you  that  the gross  material  body  is  not  you?  Now  I will 
prove the truth of what I've said. And in so doing I, the El Shaddai, will allow my Self, as the Son of 
Man, to take upon his human shoulders, the whole burden of the transgressions of the Divine Laws. 
And thus will I express my El Shaddai love to all mankind. What you don’t now understand will one 
day be revealed to you, but in the meantime I ask you all to stay calm. 
‘In the dark of the night, before the Feast of the Passover, the Sanhedrin will arrest me, and in 
the darkness that fills their minds and hearts, they will crucify me. And I, as the Son of Man, will ask 
our Heavenly Father to forgive them. For I love them. You must believe me when I say to you I love 
them. They are the children of our Father who live in my Selfhood.’ 
‘You, who have loved and served me, know that when I heal, I do not ask if a man is good or 
wicked.  I  forgive  his  transgressions,  I  heal  his  material  body,  and  I  heal  too  the  corruptions of  his 
personal self.’ 
There  was  a  noisy  commotion in  the  courtyard.  Above  the  din,  Joshua  said  to  his disciple-
healers, ‘Beloved,  I  leave  tomorrow  for  Yerushalayim,  and  there  things  will  unfold  as  I  have  told. 
When I have gone, it will be left to you to heal your sisters and brothers. But you must not despair for 
I will be with you, always.’ 
 
For where two or three are gathered together 
in my name, I am there in the midst of them. 
(Matthew 18:20) 
With  Yiohannan  and  Simon,  Joshua  went  out  into  the  courtyard  where  he  healed  more than 
fifty, giving them their health, his love, and his blessing and he forgave their sins. 

182 
 
When Joshua came to the temple early the next morning, he found Simon on his knees before 
the Holy of Holies trying to hide his wrenching grief from Is-shaak and Manasseh. Isshaak, barefoot, 
was  scrubbing  the  floor  and  Manasseh  was  reciting  Psalms  as  he  filled  the incense  burner  with 
glowing coals. Joshua greeted the boys saying, ‘shlam,’ as he patted Simon’s head, entering the Holy 
of Holies. Simon wept aloud and Is-shaak, weeping too, embraced him. Manasseh continued to recite 
Psalms through his tears. 
As Joshua returned he embraced them saying, ‘Beloved, understand that I am not my material 
body. You are not losing me. How could you? I am in you and you are in me, in Spirit and in Truth. 
And  I  promise  that  I  will  be  with  you  again  even  as  the  Son  of  Man,  as  your Joshua.  Come  now, 
cheer up. Don't let your love turn into grief.’ 
He  kissed  the  tears  from  their  eyes  with  great  love,  and  then  he  led  them  into  the  Holy  of 
Holies, lifting the heavy curtain for them. Joshua dipped a finger of his right hand into the oil of the 
lamp that burned continuously on the altar and touched their foreheads saying, ‘Alaha’s blessing be 
with you always.’ 
When  they  came  out  of  the  Holy  of  Holies,  the  Rayis Rabbi  had  entered  the  temple  and 
Manasseh,  adding  incense  to  the  burner,  gave  it  to  Samuel,  who  handed  it  to  Joshua  to  offer  to his 
Father, Alaha, as a symbol of their worship and love. The other ten companion-disciples joined them 
for the morning service. 
After  the  service  Joshua  addressed  his  companion-disciples,  telling  them  to  prepare  for  the 
journey  to  Yerushalayim,  where  they  would  stay  a  month  with  him. ‘Beloved,’ the  God-man  said, 
‘you  will  return  here  in  a  month’s time  with  my  mother  and  Maria  Magdalena.’ To  Yiacoub  and 
Yiohannan  he  said, ‘Your  mother  will  go  with  us.’ He  asked  the  Yiacoubs  to  prepare  the  carts — 
hired carts, this time—for travel. 
 
 
 
  

183 
 
CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO The Suffering Servant 
[JOSHUA’s LIFE AND TEACHINGS A MONTH BEFORE THE CRUCIFIXION. 
HE EXPLAINS TO HIS DISCIPLES IN K’FAR NAHUM WHAT IS TO COME. 
JOSHUA INSTRUCTS AND COMFORTS THE RAYIS RABBI BEFORE LEAVING K’FAR NAHUM. 
HE HEALS TWO CHILDREN.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are those who are persecuted for 
righteousness’ sake: for theirs is the Kingdom 
of Heaven. Blessed are you, when they revile 
and persecute you, and say all kinds of evil 
against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and 
he exceedingly glad: for great is your reward 
in Heaven: for so they persecuted the 
prophets who were before you. 
(Matthew 5:10-12) 
 
 
Before  he  departed  for  Yerushalayim,  Joshua  explained  to  his  disciples  in  precise  detail  what must 
befall him in only a month on the Feast of the Passover. 
 
‘The  time  is  near  when  the  Son  of  Man  will  be  arrested  on  a  moonless  night  by  servants and 
executioners  of  the  Sanhedrin.  To  satisfy  the  Israelite  Rayis  Rabbi  Kaiaphas,  the  judges  of the 
Sanhedrin  will  convict  the  Son  of  Man  of  violating  the  Mosaic  Law  and  of  blasphemy  and will 
sentence  him  to  death.  The  Judges  will  deliver  him  to  the  executioners,  who  will  mock  him, and 
abuse  him  until  he  is  bruised  and  bloodied.  Then  the  Sanhedrin  will  deliver  him  to  the Roman 
Governor, who will authorize the sentence of death. 

184 
 
‘My  body  will be  crucified,  nailed  to  a  wooden  cross.  When  my  body  has  been  killed,  two 
good-hearted Israelites who have heard me teaching, friends of the Roman governor, will ask him for 
my body to place it in a tomb. The governor will grant their request and with two of my disciples, my 
mother, my aunt Miriam Shalome, Maria Magdalena, and some other good women, they will lay my 
body in the cave they've prepared for it.’ 
When  three  days  have  passed,  I  will  heal  all  the  wounds  and  bruises  and  resurrect  my body, 
leaving only the nail holes in my hands and feet and the deep wound under my ribs where the spear 
pierced my liver, as proof to whoever may yet doubt, that I have risen from the grave. And thus will I 
prove  to  you,  my  dears,  and  to  all  human  beings,  that  the  gross material  body is  not  the  Self.  The 
body is a gift of Alaha that by using it you may express yourselves, but it is not you. When the gross 
material body dies, as sooner or later it will, your Ego-Self is not annihilated. How could it be? Your 
Ego-Self  is  your  Spirit-Soul-Self,  an  immortal  offspring  of Alaha. It  is  for  this  I  have  been 
humanized,  becoming  a  Son  of  Man.  It  is  for  this  hour  I  have  come  to the  world.  It  is  not  out  of 
weakness that I will allow them to arrest me, to torture and wound my material body, and to kill it. 
No, this is my triumph, my victory. This is the proof of what I've taught you of the Son of Man. I tell 
you this now to prepare you, that you will remain calm when it comes to pass.’ 
Some  of  the  disciple-healers  could  not  grasp  what  the  God-man  was  saying  and  they  wept 
openly.  Yiohannan the Canaanite, the brother of Simon, stood up and without asking leave to speak 
said,  his  voice  breaking, ‘Beloved Malpana,  must  you  go  to  Yerushalayim  to  be  arrested, tortured, 
and crucified?’ 
‘My  beloved  Yiohannan,’ the  God-man  said  gently, ‘I  know  that  you  and  many  others  here, 
have not understood me. I will not die upon that cross. It is only my material body that will die, and I 
will resurrect it. Again I say to you, in this way I will prove to you and to all human beings that you 
are  not  your  material  bodies,  but  Spirit-Soul-Egos,  immortal  Beings,  the  offspring  of Alaha.  As  the 
Son of Man, a human being like you, I have overcome the world.’ 
At noon the eleven companion-disciples joined Joshua and the Rayis Rabbi Samuel for lunch. 
They and the other guests ate in gloomy silence. As they finished Joshua asked them all to sing with 
him his worship prayer to Alaha in Greek and Aramaic, repeating the last sentence seven times. 
 
Our Father which art in Heaven, hallowed be 
your name. Your Kingdom come. Your will be 
done on Earth, as it is in Heaven. 
(Matthew 6:9-10) 
 
 
Joshua asked Samuel if he could speak with him alone before he departed with his companion-
disciples  and  his  family  for  Yerushalayim  the  following  morning.  Joshua  followed  the Rayis  Rabbi 
into his room and closed the door. 
  

185 
 
Overcome by grief, the Rayis Rabbi embraced and kissed the God-man. ‘Beloved Mshiha,’ he 
sobbed, ‘in  the  past  they  killed  the  prophets  and  many  men  of Alaha.  Beloved one,  do  not go  to 
Yerushalayim. I know they intend to kill you.’ ‘Beloved Samuel,’ said Joshua, ‘listen to me carefully. 
I have told you many times, they cannot kill me. They can only kill my body, and it is for this hour I 
have  come  to  the  world,  for my  body’s death  and  for my  resurrection.  Please  understand  this.  I  too 
grieve as the Son of Man, but not for the death of this body. My human heart breaks seeing what is to 
come in the centuries that follow. Men will torture and kill their brothers in Alaha’s name and in my 
name. Brother will persecute brother. Heathens will torture and kill the bodies of my followers. And 
those  calling  themselves  my  followers  will  torture  and  kill  one  another,  accusing  each  other  of 
blasphemy  and  heresy.  Samuel,  my  dear,  I  love  all  human  beings  as  parts  of  my  Selfhood;  Ego-
Selves in my One-ness, in my El Shaddai Selfhood. This is the cause of my sorrow. This is the cup I 
beseech Alaha, our Heavenly Father, to let pass from me.  
‘The crucifixion and the death of my body is my triumph as the Son of Man. And you, Samuel, 
will see me here in this room in my resurrected body. I will come to you before my mother, Shabbatai 
and his family and my companion-disciples return to K’far Nahum. I will show you the signs of the 
wounds that the nails inflicted. 
A new religious Order will be created in my name and in Alaha’s mighty name. Petros will lead 
it. And you, my beloved Samuel, as a Rayis Rabbi in this new Order will baptize Essenes, Israelites, 
Greeks, Bedouins, and even Romans in the name of the Father Alaha, in the name of the Son, in my 
name,  and  in  the  name  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Come  my  dear,  you  must  not  grieve to  hear  such  good 
news. 
‘Before I go, I would thank you as a Son of Man for all you have done for me, for my mother 
Maria, and for dear Yioussouf over these sixteen years. 
‘My ministry as the Son of Man is ending. Your ministry in the new Order of Worship begins 
now.’ 
‘One  last  request,  Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel.  When  they  return,  send  my  mother, 
Yiohannan, and Yiacoub son of Yioussouf to the Essenes in Ephesus.’ 
The  next  day,  after  the  morning  service,  the  carts  departed.  They  were  large,  covered  four-
wheeled carts  driven  by  their  owners  and  drawn  by  two  horses.  Samuel  provided  six  big  baskets of 
provisions  for  the  journey.  Joshua  kissed  the  novices,  Is-shaak  and  Manasseh,  and  climbed into  the 
cart with his mother, Maria Magdalena, Yiohannan, Simon the Canaanite, Philippos, Yiacoub son of 
Yioussouf, and Mattai. In the other cart were Shabbatai, Miriam Shalome, their son Yiacoub, Petros, 
Andreas, Thomas, and Bartholomew. 
After  a  journey  of  a  day  and  a  night  they  arrived  an  hour  after  sunrise  at  the  Essene  See in 
Magdala.  Simon  went to  fetch  his  uncle, the  Rayis  Rabbi,  while Joshua  and  Yiohannan  went to  the 
temple. Maria Magdalena, Maria the mother of Joshua, Miriam Shalome, and Shabbatai went to the 
house of Zakharias, the uncle of Maria Magdalena. 
After  the  morning  service  of  worship  the  Rayis  Rabbi  invited  Joshua  and  his  disciples  for 
breakfast and lunch in the dining rooms of the Essene See. Zakharias provided bread, still warm from 
the oven. 
Judas Iscariot did not spend much time with the other disciples, on the excuse that he was too 
busy buying grapes on behalf of his cousin. He had been with his cousin in Bethsaida and returning to 
Yerushalayim through K’far Nahum, they were informed that Joshua was two days ahead of them. In 
Magdala, an innkeeper told Judas that he had just seen Joshua walking with his disciples south of the 
city by the Sea of Galilee. Judas set off to find them. 
Seeing Judas coming, Joshua smiled with pleasure, but not so the others. Petros was especially 
offended by the rich young man. When Judas had caught up with them, Joshua spoke again of what 
awaited him in Yerushalayim. 

186 
 
Then Joshua was going up to Yerushalayim he took the twelve disciples aside on the road and 
said to them, ‘Behold, we go up to Yerushalayim; and the Son of Man will he betrayed to the Israelite 
Rayis Rabbis, and to the scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and deliver him to the Gentiles 
to mock, and to scourge, and to crucify... and the third day he will resurrect his dead body again.’  
(cf. Matthew 20:17-19) 
‘Beloved Rabbi,’ said Judas Iscariot, ‘son of Man, when the Israelites arrested you in Nazareth 
to  stone  you,  you dematerialized  your  body.  How  many  times  have  we  seen  you  do  it? So  how can 
they harm you now? If you allow them to arrest you and turn you over to the Gentiles, you need only 
stretch out your right hand against them, as the prophet Elijah did, and they will perish. I confess I do 
not  understand  you.  Why  are  you  unwilling  to  rid  Palestine  of these  heathen  oppressors  and  rule  as 
King of Israel?’ Joshua, the Son of Man, did not reply, but looked upon Judas with deep pity. 
A  very  poor  woman  approached them  coming  from  the  fields.  She  was  an  Israelite,  a  middle-
aged  widow,  dressed  in  a  gray  linen  robe,  with  two  children.  The  younger,  a  girl  of  three, was  so 
weak she carried her in her arms. The elder, a boy of five, had hold of her robe with his left hand and 
in his  right  clutched  a  bunch  of  yellow  wild  flowers.  A  thin  goat  followed  the family.  The  woman, 
plainly  exhausted,  sat  on  a  flat  stone  by  the  side  of  the  road  to  recover  her strength.  Joshua 
approached her and sat down beside her. ‘Martha,’ he said, ‘give me  your little daughter,  Lea.’ The 
astonished woman laid Lea in his arms. 
The  child  was  so  weak  she  could  barely  hold  her  head  up.  She  was  suffering  with  high fever 
and  bouts  of  epilepsy  and  spasm.  Joshua  caressed  the  trembling  body  with  his  right  hand, and 
instantly the child was healed. She opened her eyes, which sparkled with life and joy, and smiled up 
at the God-man. Giving her to her mother, who was weeping with joy, Joshua called to the boy, who 
was looking at him with fear and suspicion. ‘Mikhali,’ he said gently, ‘come to me my love.’ 
The  little  boy,  though  his  eyesight  was  very  poor,  smiled  and  when  Joshua  stretched  out his 
arms, he ran to him and gave him the drooping flowers, which as the  God-man touched them, were 
firm and fresh again. Joshua embraced the child, who wrapped his arms around the God-man’s neck, 
covering his face with kisses. ‘Is it my father come back to us?’ he asked his mother. Martha had not 
told him his father was dead. She wept now silently for her grief and for his. 
‘Martha,’ said Joshua, ‘where will you live when the owner of the vegetable garden, where now 
you  live  with  your  children  in  a  tiny  hut,  sells  his  property  as  he  means  to?  Why  don’t  you buy  it 
from him?’ ‘But my dear Rabbi,’ stammered the woman, ‘what would I buy it with. This poor goat 
and this basket I carry are all I own.’ ‘Let me see the basket, Martha dear,’ said Joshua, ‘what’s in it?’ 
‘Only  a  towel,’ said  Martha, ‘two  pieces of  dry  bread  and a  bit  of  cheese.’ Taking  the  basket, 
Joshua materialized in it a linen bag. ‘But what about this bag?’ asked Joshua. ‘It’s full of silver and 
gold. There’s enough here to buy the garden, to build a decent, little house, and to buy a few goats as 
well. Isn't that what you've been dreaming of? Your children are both now healthy and strong. Thank 
Alaha for His great Mercy. Be happy, all of you, in Alaha, who blesses you. Shlam.’ 
When Joshua rejoined his disciples on the shore, they were talking in small groups. Petros with 
Andreas,  Bartholomew,  Thomas  and  Mattai.  Yiohannan, Philippos,  Simon,  and  the  two  Yiacoubs. 
And Thaddeus and Judas, who was keeping to himself his ambitions and his sinister plans. 
  

187 
 
CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE  In Yerushalayim 
[THE RETURN TO YERUSHALAYIM. JOSHUA IS VISITED BY HIS ROMAN FRIENDS. 
HE TEACHES. YIOHANNAN COUNSELS YIASSOUNAI.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And everything, whatever you ask in prayer, 
believing, you will receive. (Matthew 21:22) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two hours after sunset, the carts carrying Joshua, his disciples, and his family to Yerushalayim, 
left Magdala. At dawn they arrived in Beth Shemesh, where they breakfasted in an Essene inn before 
departing  three  hours  later.  Traveling  day  and  night,  they  came  at  dawn  to  Beth  Shean. Here  they 
rested for six hours at the inn of a Greek. After lunch they were back on the road, and two hours after 
sunrise the next morning, they stopped for four hours in Sikhem Sykhar. From there they traveled to 
Kivat  Shaul,  arriving  at  an  Essene  inn  at  dawn.  Here  they  stopped for  the  day.  Joshua  went  to  the 
temple to offer a prayer of thanksgiving to Alaha with Rabbi Ezekiel, who was a close friend of the 
Rayis Rabbi Ephraim of Yerushalayim. 
In the Rabbi’s house Joshua healed more than twenty Essenes and Israelites. They lunched with 
the Rabbi and an hour before sunset departed. 
At  dawn  they  were  approaching  Yerushalayim  on  the  road  west  of  the  city,  where  the Essene 
See  stood,  a  mile  from  the  city  and  half  a  mile  west  of  the  Pool  of  Eels.  Looking  towards 
Yerushalayim, there were tears in Joshua’s eyes and he sighed deeply, saying in  Aramaic, his voice 
heavy with bitterness and grief, 

188 
 
 
 
Yerushalayim, Yerushalayim, murderess of 
prophets and stoner of those who are sent 
to you. How many times I wanted to gather 
your children, as a hen gathers her chicks 
under her wings. Yet you would not accept it. 
See wow, your house is left to you desolate. 
(Matthew 23:37-38) 
 
Yiassounai was at the gate as the carts entered the See and he helped down Maria, the mother of 
Joshua. Joshua and Yiohannan went directly to the temple and entered the Holy of Holies, while the 
others  retired  to  the  visitors’ room.  Yiassounai  followed  Joshua  and Yiohannan,  and  when  Joshua 
emerged  from  the  Holy  of  Holies,  the  boy  gave  Joshua  the  key  to his  rooms.  Joshua  embraced 
Yiassounai,  patting  his  head  affectionately  and  kissing  him  on  the forehead  and  eyes.  Yiassounai 
kissed his beloved Joshua’s hands.  
When  Joshua  and  Yiohannan  withdrew  to  Joshua’s rooms,  Yiassounai  went  to  his  own room 
where he fell on his bed, sobbing. If he was sure now that Joshua would not use his powers to prevent 
the Sanhedrin from arresting him, torturing his body, and crucifying it, he clung to the slender hope 
that at the last minute Alaha would change the minds of the Israelite Rayis Rabbis.  
When  Yiohannan  left  Joshua  to  join  the others,  Yiassounai  went  to  Joshua  to  ask  him  if  he 
wished  a  comfortable  couch  brought  to  the  adjoining  room  for  his  mother.  Joshua  said  it  was 
unnecessary as his mother, Maria Magdalena, Myriam Shalome, Shabbatai, Yiacoub, and Yiohannan 
would  stay  at  the  house  of  Shabbatai’s brother  and  sister  north-east  of  Yerushalayim on  the  road  to 
Jerikho, close to Gethsemane and the Mount of Olives. 
Shabbatai’s brother,  Aaron,  who  was  getting  on  in  years,  was  a  widower  and  childless.  His 
sister, Hannah Maria, who was three years older than Shabbatai, had never married. The family was 
well-to-do, living in a large, three-storied house of many rooms. The house stood in a spacious yard 
surrounded by extensive gardens and orchards of figs, palms, and many other fruits. At the gate was 
an outbuilding of two rooms. 
Joshua,  Yiohannan,  and  Yiacoub  often  visited  there  when  in  Yerushalayim.  Hannah  Maria 
adored  Yiacoub,  and  though  she  also  loved  Yiohannan  deeply,  she  knew  he  was  not  her  brother’s 
son; for Shabbatai and Myriam Shalome had told her when Yiohannan was to be born that the child 
had been conceived by immaculate conception. Yiacoub bore a strong resemblance to both his father 
and  his  uncle  Aaron,  in  appearance  and  behavior.  His  eyes  like  theirs  were chestnut  brown,  while 
Yiohannan’s were  like  his  cousin  Joshua’s,  emerald-green.  Yiacoub, Shabbatai,  and  Aaron  were  all 
loud,  boisterous,  and  shouting.  Joshua  called  Yiacoub ‘The  Son of  Thunder.’ Yiohannan  was  like 
Joshua. He never even laughed aloud, though there was always a sweet smile on his lips. 
A  cart  from  the  See  brought  Joshua’s mother  Maria,  Myriam  Shalome,  Shabbatai,  Maria if 
Magdalena,  Yiacoub  and  Yiohannan  to  the  house  of  Aaron  and  Hannah  Maria  before  sunset. 

189 
 
Yiacoub,  son  of  Yioussouf,  had,  as  usual,  a  room  in  the  synagogue,  where  he  gathered  Joshua’s 
disciple-healers for lessons and instruction. 
Early in the morning of the second day, after the service of worship and breakfast, Ephraim and 
Joshua  were  sitting  in  the  guest  room,  when  Stephanos  came  to  say  that  a  Roman centurion  has 
arrived  at  the  See,  asking  to  meet  the  Rayis  Rabbi  and  the  young  Essene  Rabbi, Joshua.  His  cart, 
Stephanos  said,  stood  in  the  yard  with  four  Roman  sword-bearers  and  an Israelite.  Ephraim  asked 
Stephanos to show the visitor in. 
The centurion told the Rayis Rabbi that two Roman nobles and a noblewoman wished to come 
before noon if possible to see Joshua. Joshua knew who they were and told the centurion that it would 
be a great pleasure to see them again. 
About  noon  Octaviano  with  Flaviano  and Flaviano’s sister,  Veronica,  arrived  at  the  See. ‘Pax 
vobiscum’ (peace  be  with  you),  said  Joshua,  embracing  and  kissing  them.  The  Romans returned  his 
kisses with great love. As Joshua inquired after Octaviano’s health, Flaviano was clinging to the God-
man’s hand,  so  great  was  his  love,  and  Veronica  looked  up  at  him,  her  eyes filled  with  adoration. 
Octaviano and Flaviano were to leave that afternoon for Tyre, and thence to Rome on a battleship. 
Stephanos, at Ephraim’s request, served the company  sweet almond cream and luscious dates. 
Octaviano  extended  to  Joshua  greetings  from  Claudia,  the  wife  of  the  Roman  governor, and  of  the 
Roman noble Sallustius, who had sent a gift for Joshua with Flaviano. Joshua opened the box to find 
a silver bowl engraved with the symbols of the Roman Empire. Joshua accepted the gift graciously—
so as not to offend his guests—and asked Stephanos to take it to his rooms. 
When the Romans left, they kissed Joshua again with great love. Later Joshua said to Ephraim, 
‘I  am  glad  Octaviano and  Flaviano  are  leaving  Palestine  now,  that  they  may  be  spared the  sight  of 
this body they kiss so lovingly, nailed to a wooden cross. On Calvary a month from now, Veronica, 
dressed in the plain garments of an Essene, will support my mother and plead with the centurion to 
allow  her  to  approach  the  cross  on  which  my  body  has  been  nailed.  Rayis Rabbi  Ephraim,  these 
things  will  come  to  pass:  Octaviano  and  Flaviano  will  denounce  the Roman  idols  and  will  follow 
with great faith the new religious Order founded in the name of Alaha and in my name; Veronica will 
be  tortured  and  executed  and,  by  the  followers  of  the  new Order,  she  shall  be  called “Santa 
Veronica”;  Octaviano  will  pass  away  in  peace  in  Sicily;  dear Flaviano,  as  a  Rabbi  of  the  new 
Worship  Order  in  Rome,  will  be  tortured  by  the  idolaters  and executed.’ With  tears  in  his  eyes,  the 
Son of Man said in Greek,  
 
Heavenly Father, so much blood will be 
shed on Earth in your name and in mine. 
Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from 
me. 
 
 
 
The  Rayis Rabbi  held  the  God-man  in  his  arms,  but  Joshua’s voice  was  so  low  that Ephraim 
could understand little of what he said. Joshua retired quietly to his own rooms so as not to be seen 
weeping  by  the  others  and  while  he  was  praying  to  his  Father Alaha, Yiassounai entered  to  fill  the 
clay water jar. Knowing what was in the heart of his Most Beloved One, the boy knelt before Joshua 
putting  his  head  on  his  knees  and  embracing  his  feet.  Yiassounai’s tears flowed  so  freely  that  they 
wet the God-man’s robe. Joshua caressed Yiassounai’s hair with both his hands. 
  

190 
 
When Yiohannan came in, he helped Yiassounai up and kissed his eyes saying, ‘Yiassounai, try 
to understand. The Mshiha does not need your tears. Our tears, his and mine and yours, are needed to 
clean the hearts of all who have transgressed the Law.’ 
Joshua asked Yiacoub to call the disciple-healers together that afternoon. There were more than 
a  hundred  in  the  synagogue:  disciple-healers  and  their  guests.  There  were  three  Israelite Rabbis 
present, two of them spies of the Sanhedrin. Some of the Israelite disciple-healers were talking in low 
voices to these guests about the visit of the Roman nobles to the See and about their gift to Joshua. 
An  Israelite  spy  of  the  Sanhedrin  in  the  service  of  Sallustius  had accompanied  the  Roman 
nobles, staying in the cart with the Roman sword-bearers. Earlier in the day, he had told five Israelite 
disciple-healers that Octaviano and Flaviano would give Joshua a silver bowl with the symbols of the 
Roman Empire engraved on it, which he had seen in the house of his master, Sallustius. The Israelite 
disciple-healers  had  then  interrupted  Stephanos  on  his  way  to  Joshua’s rooms and  asked  to  see  the 
bowl. These five, who had not yet freed themselves from fanaticism and prejudice, were enraged by 
the sight of the symbols of the Roman Empire.  
In  the  synagogue  the  companion-disciples  sat  on  their  stools  with  the  three  Israelite  Rabbis 
beside them and the rest sat on cushions, with some standing.  
From  the  pulpit  Joshua,  after  raising  his  arms  and  reciting  his  worship  prayer  to Alaha, said, 
‘My beloved ones, all of  you, offspring of Alaha, our  Heavenly  Father,  you must feel in your  gross 
material  bodies  the  Omnipresence  of Alaha as  Love  and  as  Life.  Life  and  Love  are  the  nature  of 
Alaha, manifesting  Himself  in  every  living  being;  filling  every  living  being  with His  Light-Love-
Life.’ 
‘By the light of the sun, you see with your gross material eyes everything around you which has 
a gross material form. This is the world of existence where you live now in your gross material body 
with  its  senses.  This  world  of  existence  and  everything  living  in  it  is  created  and  sustained  by  the 
Holy Archangels, the Lords of the Elements. The gross material world is over-lowing with the glory 
of Alaha, manifesting His total Wisdom and Almightiness.  
‘Alaha has  created  and  is  creating  and  sustaining  other  worlds  of  existence,  worlds  of  other 
dimensions,  in  which  there  are  living  forms. Alaha has  created  and  is  creating  in  abundance 
everything that all the phenomena of life require.’  
‘Everywhere  in  the  Omnipresence  of Alaha is  His  Mind  Supersubstance  as  the  Mind Vitality. 
There  are  many  ways  in  which  you  receive  this  Mind  Vitality.  It  is  in  the  food  you  eat and  in  the 
liquids you drink. It is in the air you breathe, which you receive through your mouth, or nose, or the 
pores of your skin. The Holy Archangels use the Mind Vitality to sustain your gross material body.’  
‘Alaha has  given  you  this  Mind  Vitality  as  the  Mind-Light  you  need  to  create  your  human 
personality with all its levels of consciousness: sensibility, instinct, subconsciousness (where most of 
you  live  now),  consciousness,  that  you  must  develop,  and  Self-consciousness.  With  the exercises  I 
have  taught  you,   you  now  can,  as  a  Soul-Ego-Self,  express  more  of  your  real  Self, living 
Superconsciously  and  using  the  powers  of  your  Soul-Ego-Self  to  heal.  Most  of  you  have learned  to 
heal  and  some  to  materialize  and  dematerialize  the  Mind  Vitality  at  will.  With  practice  you  can 
master this Mind Vitality. By  visualization  you can develop the skill of constructing thought-forms, 
which you can then materialize.’ 
‘Annihilating your personality’s egoism, transmuting your personality into your Soul-Ego-Self, 
awakening  it  in  you,  you  can  leave  your  gross  material body  at  will  and  go  Self-consciously where 
you will. You become master of place-space. And you become master of time, moving in time Self-
consciously,  entering  the  eternal,  everlasting  Now;  entering  the  Cosmic Consciousness  of Alaha; 
entering the One-ness of your Heavenly Father; entering the Kingdom of the Heavens, which is your 
real nature, in your Spirit-Soul-Being-Self. You can enter the everlasting  Life and you will discover 

191 
 
that  it  is  not  inertia,  but  Superconscious  conception  in the  total  Wisdom  of our  Heavenly  Father 
Alaha. Think about the Parable of the Lost Son.’ 
One of the Israelite Rabbis said, ‘Essene Rabbi, Man is a creation of the Holy  Archangels and 
of Alaha. We have heard that you call yourself the “Beni Alaha”. Is this not blasphemy?’ 
‘Reverend Rabbi,’ Joshua replied, ‘in the Holy Scrolls, in the Sepher Yetzirah, it is written,  
“... and Alaha said to His Holy Archangels, the Co-Creators,  
 
 
 
Let us make man in our image and according to our likeness” 
 
‘Having  created  the  material  and  the  other  bodies, Alaha breathed  in  the  nostrils  of  Man His 
Breath and Man became a living Soul. The bodies of a human being are mortal and will die, but what 
of the Breath of Alaha, the Spirit-Soul-Ego of Man? 
 
 
Ruha 
 
 
‘Can the Spirit-Soul-Ego of Man—the Breath of Alaha—die?’ 
‘Soon I will prove to the world that the Spirit-Soul-Ego is immortal. That it can resurrect even a 
dead  body  as  I  have  shown  some  of  you  before,  raising  the  dead  and  calling  back  to  them their 
immortal  Spirit-Soul-Ego.  In  a  month  I  will  make it  plain  to all,  when  some  who  dwell in darkness 
and  ignorance—you  understand  me  Reverend  Rabbi,  for  your  hand  is  in  this—will give  me  the 
opportunity to demonstrate the Truth.’ 
‘Reverend Rabbis, ignorance of the Truth of the Laws of Alaha, enmity, hatred and cruelty will 
bring disaster upon your beloved Yerushalayim. The war you will wage upon the Romans will leave 
this city a burning ruin. No stone will remain on stone.’ 
 
 
 
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the Earth. (Matthew 5:5) 
 
Joshua  went  out  with  Yiohannan,  Philippos,  Yiassounai,  and  Simon  to  heal  the  many  who 
waited  for  him  in  the  yard.  There  were  more  than  a  hundred.  The  Israelite  Rabbis  followed Joshua 
closely, their anger rising as they heard him say, ‘Your sins are forgiven.’ 
The Rabbi who had challenged him in the synagogue shouted out, ‘Essene Rabbi, who gave you 
the  right  to  heal?  These  wretches  are  ill  because  that  is  the  Will  of Alaha.  Who  are you  to  defy 
Alaha’s Will?  Who  are  you  to  forgive  sins?’ Joshua’s smile  was  at  once  gentle  and bitter,  and  his 
eyes were full of pity as he turned them on the Rabbis. It was his only reply. The Israelite disciple-
healers, who had invited the Rabbis unwillingly, now asked them to leave the grounds, and humbly 
they  asked  Joshua  to  forgive  them.  The  God-man  patted  their  shoulders  with  love  saying, ‘My 
beloved ones, I want to see in your hearts no ill will for the Rabbis. You must love them. Things will 
happen  soon  that  will  greatly  distress  you.  I  ask  you  to  stay calm  whatever  happens.  I  ask  you  to 
remember in the dark days ahead what I am saying to you now. Be calm. Be at peace. Always.’ 

192 
 
Yiassounai  was  so  upset  by  the  behavior of  the  departing  Rabbi  that  he  looked at him  with ill 
concealed  disgust.  Yiohannan,  who  was  standing  near,  said  to  him, ‘Yiassounai,  my  love,  calm 
yourself. Go to your room. I will come to you. We must talk.’ 
Yiassounai  sat  on  his  couch  with  his  head  in  his  hands  murmuring, ‘I  cannot  understand. I 
cannot.’ 
Yiohannan, closing the door behind him, sat beside the boy and embraced him, kissing his eyes 
as Joshua often had. ‘Yiassounai,’ he said gently, ‘do you not understand or are you struggling not to 
understand?  Your  beloved  Joshua  tells  all of  you  what  will  transpire  to  prepare  you that  you  may 
remain  calm.  You  heard  him  say  this  in K’far  Nahum,  when  you  left  your  body  here and  came  to 
him.  Even  out  of  its  material  body  the  Yiassounai  self  of  yours  was  upset  then.  And the  others, 
though  they  could  not  see  you,  were  affected  by  your  feelings.  To  hear  what  will happen  to Joshua 
greatly disturbs you and you are opposing the will of Alaha when you refuse to accept that Joshua’s 
crucifixion  and  resurrection  will  prove  to  the world  the  great  truth  that  the Spirit-Soul-Ego  of  a 
human  being  is  immortal.  How  could  anything  be  more  convincing  than  the resurrection  and 
restoration of a crucified body? Child, do you understand this?’ 
‘But  why  must  it  be  the  body  of  Joshua?’ said  the novice. ‘Hasn't  he  done  as  much  already 
many times?’ 
‘Yes,’ said Yiohannan. ‘But this is Alaha’s Will. Tell me, Yiassounai, how do you love Joshua? 
How do you love his material body?’ 
‘Beloved  Yiohannan,’ Yiassounai  said, ‘I  will  tell  you  first  how  I  love you,  my  beloved 
Archangel.  I  love  you  as  Yiohannan  in  a  material  body.  I  love  you  as  Yiohannan  in  a  luminous 
human Form of light and substance. I can see you as that, though the others may see you only in your 
material body. I love you. I can also see you clearly with my Soul’s senses, manifesting a Soul also. I 
love you as a man and as the Archangel Yiohannan. But what can I know of you in your Archangelic 
One-ness  in  the  One-ness  of  your  Archangelic  Order,  with  a  name  common to  all  the  billions  of 
Archangels in that Order, but unknown to me? I love Yiohannan.’ 
‘I know that Joshua the Mshiha is the Son of Alaha, One with his Heavenly Father Alaha, with 
our  Heavenly  unknowable,  incomprehensible  Father  known  only  to  him.  I  love  and  I  adore Joshua, 
the “Son of Man”, as he calls himself. I love and I adore Joshua, the Son of Man in his magnificent 
splendor, in that dazzling brightness  you  saw with  your material eyes as he was transfigured. Petros 
and  Yiacoub  covered  their  eyes  with  their  hands.  Only  your  eyes, my  beloved  Archangel,  could 
behold such a light. I was there in attunement, as you know. Can a human eye see Joshua as the Light 
of the World? I love Joshua in his human form, dressed in flesh, but also in his dazzling Light, as the 
Son of Man. I love you, Yiohannan and Joshua, the Sons of Man, an Archangel and Alaha in human 
Form. That Form both of you will keep in the life everlasting, so I know I will never lose you. 
‘My beloved  Archangel Yiohannan, Joshua and you know everything, all that I think and now 
have said. Why do you ask me about it?’ 
‘You are right, my love,’ said Yiohannan smiling, ‘but in saying it, you impress it more deeply 
and clearly on your personality’s consciousness.’ 
Yiohannan  rose  and  went  to  the  table  on  which  there  was  a  large,  clay  bowl  full  of  delicious 
dates.  Yiohannan took  one  with  the  thumb  and  forefinger  of  his  right  hand  and  put  it  in his  mouth. 
Then he picked up another and put it in Yiassounai’s mouth. Yiassounai looking up into his eyes said, 
‘My  beloved  Archangel,  are  you  trying  to  show  me  that  you  are  a  human being?  You  are  an 
Archangel.’ 
‘Yes,  and  a  human  being  now,  a  Self-conscious  Soul  like  you  and  like  Joshua,  our  Most 
Beloved God-man. We are all human beings now. We are, as Joshua says, Sons of Man.’ 
Looking at Yiohannan with great love, Yiassounai said, ‘My beloved human Archangel, once in 
the  temple  I  prostrated  myself,  kissing  the  feet  of  Joshua.  You  raised  me  to  my  feet.  My Most 

193 
 
Beloved One embraced me, kissing my eyes and saying to the Rayis Rabbi Ephraim that I might be 
permitted  now  to  enter the  Holy  of  Holies  and  light  the  altar  lamp  with  the  inextinguishable  flame. 
You promised me then that you would be with me always.’ 
Yiohannan took Yiassounai in his arms and kissed him most lovingly on the eyes and fore head 
and said, ‘Yiassounai, bring me those two wax candles. Light them and give one to me. This done, he 
said, ‘Now you see two flames. Give me your candle. I put the flames together. And you now see one 
flame, do you not? Not two flames now, but one brighter flame. Try to understand what I will tell you 
now.  Not  only  will  I  be  with  you  as  I  promised,  two  flames  in one  place,  but  I  will  be in  you,  two 
flames becoming one.’ 
‘That  flame  will  be  you,  my  love,’ Yiassounai  interrupted, ‘and  all  who  hear  me will  be  told 
that  my  teachings  are  not  mine  but  yours.  The  brightness  in  that  flame  will  be  you,  my  beloved 
Archangel.’ 
‘My  love,  my  Yiassounai,’ said  Yiohannan, ‘no  matter  what  others  may  say  of  you,  in  your 
future Self-conscious Self, I will be in you also.’ He kissed Yiassounai for the first time on his lips. 
‘Your mouth will be my mouth. Keep it always clean. No evil words must come from it. Have always 
in  your  human  heart  the  teaching  of  our  Most  Beloved  Joshua.  Make  your  heart the  lamp  of Alaha 
and your material body His altar. The flame of that lamp is the inextinguishable Light of Love.’ 
Yiohannan  paused  as  if  listening. ‘Joshua  calls  me  with  his  mind,’ he  said, ‘I  must  go.’ And 
kissing Yiassounai again on his eyes, he went. 
When  Stephanos  came  into the  room  to  light  the  candles  against  the  gathering  darkness, he 
found his friend on his couch, weeping. ‘Sounai,’ said Stephanos, ‘for weeks now you have been so 
unhappy. You know how much I love you. Tell me what burdens your heart.’ 
‘My  dear  Stephanos,’ said  Yiassounai  through  his  tears, ‘I  know  I  am  wrong,  but  I  cannot 
accept  without  great  pain  the  events  that  I  have  been  trying  not  to  foresee.  I  feel  that  something 
monstrous, terrible beyond belief, will happen. I struggle to deny this. Oh, Stephanos, I can’t explain 
it.’ He again burst into tears. 
Stephanos kissed him gently and left him murmuring to himself, ‘Sounai weeps. Simon weeps. 
Why? Why are they weeping?’ 
 
 
 
  

194 
 
CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR  The Plot 
[KAIAPHAS PLANS THE ARREST, TRIAL AND CRUCIFIXION OF JOSHUA. 
JUDAS IS DECEIVED INTO ACTING AS AN ACOMPLICE. 
A NIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GETHSEMANE.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kaiaphas, the Rayis Rabbi heading the Sanhedrin, called the Sanhedrin Judges to his house. He said 
to them: ‘Honorable Rayis Rabbis, Judges of the Sanhedrin, I am sure that since our last meeting you 
have  all  carefully  examined  the  reports  on  hand  concerning  the  preaching  and the  activities  of  the 
young Essene Rabbi called Joshua. There is no doubt in my mind that he is a most dangerous man, 
dangerous  to  our  holy  cause:  to  fight  the  Romans  and  drive  them eventually  from  our  land.  He  is  a 
traitor.  His  preaching  aims  at  convincing  Israelites  and Essenes  to  submit  to  the  Romans  and  to 
surrender our holy land.’ 
‘The latest report I have received is from our spy in the service of the noble Roman Sallustius 
whom the Essene Rabbi often visits. Recently, the noble Romans Octaviano and Flaviano and a noble 
Roman woman visited the Essene Rabbi at the Essene See in Yerushalayim. They offered him a very 
expensive silver bowl with the insignia of the Roman Empire engraved on it. Why are the Romans so 
generous  with  the  Essene  Rabbi?  What  has  he been  rewarded  for?  There  is  no  doubt,  the  Essene 
Rabbi is a traitor.’ 
‘True, this man has great healing powers; but we know that he has the  Archdemon Beelzebub 
within himself. The Essenes have accepted him as the Mshiha and many Israelites are following him.’ 
‘Honorable Judges, we must get rid of him, the sooner, the better, before it is too late. Hundreds 
of  Israelites  already  follow  him.  Is  it  not  right  and  just  to  sacrifice  one  man  in  order to  save  the 
nation, our land?’ The Sanhedrin Judges agreed. 
Kaiaphas  continued, ‘It  would  not  be  wise,  however,  to  have  him  arrested  while  preaching or 
healing. The multitude might interfere. We must arrest him secretly at night. You, the Judges of the 
Sanhedrin, will then try him, condemn him to death and present him, very early the next morning, to 
the Roman Governor for his approval of your judgment. He cannot withhold his consent. So we will 
be  able  to  take  him  immediately  to  Calvary  where  our  executioners  will  crucify  him—before  the 
masses are aware of what has happened. 
‘The Roman Governor may refer the condemned Essene to King  Herod.  But  Herod will be on 
our side when he hears that the Essene Rabbi calls himself the King of Israel.’ 
‘Everything must happen quickly on the  same day, the day when the people are busy with the 
preparations for the Passover festivities.’ 
The  Sanhedrin  Judges  gave  Kaiaphas  full  authority and  left  the  necessary  preparations  to his 
discretion. 
One of the Zealot friends of his cousin approached Judas, son of Simon from Iscaria, on behalf 
of Kaiaphas. The cunning Zealot, who was aware of Judas’ ambition, said to him: ‘My dear Judas,  

195 
 
you told us that Joshua had great powers, that he could dematerialize his body at will. Since he has 
these  great  powers,  nothing  can  happen  to  him  if  he  is  arrested  and taken to the  Romans  for  trial.  I 
have read what the prophet Elisha did to the Syrians.’ 
‘Therefore, rest assured our Israelite brothers will not and cannot do any harm to him. However, 
when Joshua personally experiences the rigor of Roman rule and dominance he will realize that our 
cause to get rid of the Romans is a just cause, and with his great powers he will find a way to expel 
the Romans from Palestine.’ 
‘A  few  days  ago  you  have  asked  me  to  lend  you  some  money.  Let  us  go  to  the  Rayis  Rabbi 
Kaiaphas. He agreed to give you thirty silver denarii, enough to buy a whole property. He will assure 
you that they will not harm Joshua, in fact, they could not do any harm even if some of them wanted 
to.’ 
Judas, deceived by the cunning  Zealot and by  Kaiaphas, agreed to take the Sanhedrin servants 
during the appointed night to Joshua’s place near the house of Aaron. 
In  the  meantime  Joshua  was  enjoying  the  time  spent  with  his  companion-disciples.  During 
moonlit  nights  they  would  sit  under  the  olive  trees,  pray  to Alaha and  sometimes  sing  together 
Joshua’s worship prayer to Alaha. 
One night in the garden of Gethsemane, in the presence of Judas, Joshua said to his disciples: 
‘But now I go away to my Father, to him who sent me, and none of you asks me,’ “where are 
you going?” But because I have said to you these things which are going to come to me, sorrow has 
filled your hearts. Nevertheless I tell you the truth. It is to your advantage that I go away now, for if I 
do not go, the Helper, Alaha the Holy Spirit, Shekhinah, will not come to you. But if I depart now, I 
will send the Holy Spirit Alaha to you. And when the Holy Spirit has come, he will convict the world 
of  sin,  and  of  righteousness,  and  of  judgment:  of  sin,  because  they  do  not  believe  in  me;  of 
righteousness, because I go to my Father and you see me no more; of judgment, because the ruler of 
this world is judged. I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear or understand them 
now.  However,  when  he,  Alaha  the  Holy Spirit,  the  Spirit  of truth,  has  come,  he  will  guide  you into 
the truth; for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak; and he will 
tell you things to come. The Shekhinah will glorify me, for he will take of what is mine and declare it 
to  you.  All  things  that  the  Father  has  are  also  mine.  Therefore  I  said  that  he  will  take  of  mine  and 
declare it to you.  
‘A little while, and you will not see me; and a little while again, and you will see me, because I 
go to my Father.’ Then some of his disciples said among themselves, ‘What is this that he says to us, 
“A little while, and you will not see me; and a little while again and you will see me" and “because I 
go to my Father”?’ They said therefore, ‘What is this that he says, "A little while"? We do not 
understand what he is saying.’ And Joshua knew that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them, 
‘Are you inquiring among yourselves about what I said, “A little while, and you will not see me; and 
a little while again, and you will see me”? Most assuredly, I say to you that you will weep and 
lament, but the world will rejoice; and you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy. 
A woman, when she is in labor to give birth to a child, has sorrow because her hour has come; but as 
soon as she has given birth to a child, she no longer remembers the anguish and the pain, for joy that 
a  human  being  has been  born  into  the  world.  Therefore  you  now  have  sorrow;  but  I  will  see  you 
again  and  you  will  see  me  in  my  resurrected  material  body  again  and  your  heart  will  rejoice,  and 
your  joy  no  one  will  be  able  to  take  it  from  you.  And  in  that  day  you  will  ask  me nothing.  Most 
assuredly, I say to you, whatever you ask the Father in my name Alaha will give it to you. Until now 
you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, so that your joy may be full. 
All these things I have spoken to you in parables; but the time is coming when I will no longer 
speak to you in parables, but I will tell you plainly about the Father Alaha. In that day you will ask in 
my name, and I do not say to you that I shall pray to the Father Alaha for you; for Alaha the Father 

196 
 
himself  loves  you,  because  you  have  loved  me,  and  have  believed  that  I  came  forth  from  Alaha.  I 
came forth from Alaha the Father and have come into the world. Again, I leave the world and I go to 
my Father.’ His  disciples  said  to  him, ‘See,  now  you  are  speaking  plainly,  and  you  are  not  using 
parables. Now we are sure that you know all things, and have no need that anyone should question 
you. By this we believe that you came forth from Alaha.’ Joshua answered them, ‘Do you now 
believe? Indeed, the hour is coming, yes, it has now come, that all of you will be scattered, each to his 
own, and you will leave me alone. And yet I am not alone, because Alaha the Father is in me. These 
things I have said to you, that in me you may have only peace. In the world you will have tribulation; 
but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.’ 
Joshua speaking lifted up his eyes to Heaven, and said: ‘Father Alaha, the hour has come. 
Glorify  your  Son,  that  your  Son  also  may  glorify  you,  as  you  have  given  him  the  authority  and  the 
power over all flesh, that he should have and give eternal life to as many as you have given him. And 
this  is  the  eternal  life,  that  they  may  know  you,  the  only true  Alaha  and  Joshua,  the  Mshiha,  whom 
you have sent. I have glorified you on the Earth. I have finished the work which you have given me to 
do. And now, O Father Alaha, glorify me together with your divine Self, with the glory which I had 
with you before the world was in existence.  
‘I have manifested your divine name to the men whom you have given me out of the world. They 
were yours, you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they know that all things which 
you have given me are from you. For I have given to them the words which you have given me; and 
they have received them, and have known surely that I came forth from you; and they have believed 
that you sent me. I pray for them. I do not pray for the world but for those whom you have given me, 
for they are yours. And all mine are yours, and yours, Father Alaha, are mine, and I am glorified in 
them. Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to you. Holy Father, 
Alaha,  keep  through  your  name  those  whom  you  have  given  me,  that  they  may  be  one  as  we  are. 
While I was in the world with them, I have kept them in your name. Those whom you gave me I have 
kept; and none of them is lost except the son of perdition.’ 
(John 16:5-33, 17:1-12) 
While  Joshua  was  speaking,  Judas  was  absent-minded.  He  was  busy  planning  how to  force 
Joshua  to  use  his  powers  to  dethrone  Herod  and  to  make  the  Romans  leave  Palestine.  Judas  was 
convinced that Joshua could do it. He was also convinced that nobody could do any harm to the one 
who was able to dematerialize his body... 
  

197 
 
CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE  The Passion 
[JOSHUA TEACHES. HE HEALS IN BETHANIA. 
THE LAST SUPPER. THE AGONY IN GETHSEMANE. JUDAS’ BETRAYAL. 
JOSHUA IS SEIZED, TRIED, AND SENTENCED. HE BEARS HIS CROSS. 
YIASSOUNAI IS WOUNDED. JOSHUA IS CRUCIFIED.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the next five days the God-man taught his disciples and others who came to hear him that 
they must be at all times and in all circumstances calm. ‘The human-demon of anger,’ he told them 
again  and  again, ‘even  in  its  mildest  form  as  a  simple  complaint  against  anyone,  must  not disturb 
your peace of mind. Make your material body the temple of Alaha. The Holy Archangels are in it and 
sustain it for you. Make your heart the Holy of Holies of Alaha, and keep burning on the altar of your 
heart a lamp lit with the inextinguishable flame of love. That flame is your love for Alaha and for all 
His offspring. 
‘I  have  taught  you  to  love  those  who  call  themselves  your  enemies.  Love  them  and  pray  for 
them to your Father Alaha, for their need for your love and prayers is greatest.’ 
An  Israelite disciple-healer asked, ‘Malpana, what if one calling himself my enemy intends to 
kill me?’ ‘To kill you?’ answered the God-man. ‘How could someone kill you? Your brother, in the 
darkness of ignorance, can kill your material body, but he cannot kill you. For you are not that body. 
You  are  an  immortal  Spirit-Soul  no  man  can  kill.’ And  Joshua  said  in  Aramaic,  as  he had  many 
times, 
 
At that very moment be joyful and exceed- 
ingly glad, for your reward will be great in 
the Kingdom of Heaven for so they have 
persecuted the prophets who were before 
you. (cf. Matthew 5:12) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘My beloved ones, all of  you,  I shall prove to  you and to all mankind the truth of what I have 
taught  you.  I  will  prove  that  a  human  being  is  not  his  gross  material  body,  but  an  immortal  Spirit-
Soul-Ego. Truly you are the offspring of Alaha. 
‘I will allow your brothers, whom  you call wicked, to arrest me, for it is Alaha’s Will that the 
truth  be  demonstrated  not  in  words  only  but  in  deeds.  I  will  allow  the  Sanhedrin  to  arrest me  and 
sentence me to death. I have told you what will happen. They will crucify my material body on a   

198 
 
wooden cross. Good men will take it down and lay it in a tomb. In three days I will heal it, resurrect 
it, and enter it again, and in that body I shall come to most of you who are here before me. 
‘For this is my triumph as the Son of Man, as a man like you, over death. I will raise my human 
nature  to  the  Heavens  from  where  I  came  to  the  world,  and  I  will  draw  all  mankind  to  me  there.’ 
‘Malpana,’ said an Essene disciple-healer, ‘why three days? Why leave  your body  for three days in 
the tomb?’ 
‘My dear,’ said Joshua, ‘I will be those three days in the world you call “the world of the dead.” 
I will wake the dead, and those who would not stay any longer in the world of their dreams, in their 
mare’s-nests, will ascend to Heaven. For I did not come to the worlds of existence only for you who 
are living in material bodies, but also for all those in the worlds of other dimensions, which you call 
the worlds of the dead.’ 
After the morning service on the first day of the ‘Unleavened  Bread’ Joshua said to the Rayis 
Rabbi Ephraim in the visitors’ room, ‘Beloved one, this is the last time you will see me as you see me 
now. As I have promised, you will see me again in your room on the fourth day after my crucifixion, 
in  this  body,  resurrected.  And  you  will  see  me  many  times  over  the  fifty  days that  follow  until  I 
dematerialize this body. Let no grief enter the gates of your heart. Know that it is for this hour that I 
have come to the world. Beloved Ephraim, peace be with you.’ 
Joshua  called  his  twelve  disciples  together  and  said  to  them, ‘My  beloved  ones,  all  of  you, 
tonight we will take supper together in Aaron’s house and after supper Alaha will guide you. Petros, 
Andreas, and the Yiacoubs will go to the market and buy what we need. Ask Maria, my mother, and 
Aaron’s sister, Hannah Maria what to collect.’ 
Joshua called Yiassounai to his side saying, ‘Yiassounai, my love, go with the others to Aaron’s 
house. I will need you there. You will find your mother and aunt already there.’ 
And to the others Joshua said, ‘Yiohannan and Simon will go with me to Bethania to the house 
of Simon whom we healed of leprosy. There are many others, ill and disabled, waiting for us there.’ 
In the house of Simon Joshua healed four sufferers whom the Essene Rabbi had brought to him. 
Joshua asked the Rabbi to gather the others, Essenes and Israelites, in the yard of the Essene temple. 
On  that  last  day  Joshua  and  Yiohannan  restored  to  health  and  vigor  more  than  a  hundred. 
Joshua, Yiohannan and Simon spent six hours that day in Bethania.  
Meanwhile Petros, Andreas, the Yiacoubs and Aaron bought the food for the evening meal, and 
Maria the mother of Joshua, Hannah Maria, Miriam Shalome, Maria Magdalena, Aethra the mother 
of Yiassounai, and Yiassounai’s aunt Naomi prepared the meal. 
Under  a  fig  tree  in  the  yard  of  Aaron’s house,  Yiohannan  described  to  Philippos,  Simon  the 
Canaanite and Yiassounai the nature of the Kingdom of the Heavens. Simon was very impressed with 
Yiohannan’s wisdom. Yiassounai and Philippos understood the source of that wisdom for they knew 
that Yiohannan was an Archangel in the One-ness of the El Shaddai. When Yiohannan went to meet 
Joshua, Philippos told Simon the truth about Yiohannan. 
The supper was laid out on a table in a large second story room adjoining a large kitchen. There 
was  unleavened  bread,  loaves  of  cheese  cut  into  pieces,  large  clay  bowls  heaped  with fresh  figs, 
dates, salted almonds, grapes and raisins. Smaller clay bowls filled with honey, milk, cream, and fish, 
fried and salted, and clay jars of sweet red wine. 
Judas was the last to come. All the companion-disciples had washed their feet and hands in the 
yard  and  left  their  sandals  at  the  entrance  to  the  room.  They  sat  on  stools  around  the table.  In  the 
middle  of  one  side  Joshua  seated  Yiohannan  on  his  right  hand  and  beside  him Petros,  Andreas, 
Philippos,  Simon,  Thomas  and  Nathanael  (also  called  Bartholomeus).  To Joshua’s left  were  Judas, 
Matai, the two Yiacoubs, Shabbatai and Aaron. 

199 
 
Joshua asked them to stand as he recited his worship prayer to Alaha. Then as they were seated 
again,  Joshua  went  to  the  kitchen  and  returned  with  a large  brass  kettle  of  warm  water. Yiassounai 
carried a round wooden basin of warm water and some towels. 
Joshua took a towel and asked Yiassounai to set the basin at Petros’ feet. Petros protested, very 
reluctant to have the Beni Alaha wash his feet, but Joshua insisted and Petros put his feet in the basin. 
Joshua washed his feet, wiped them with the towel and kissed them. 
Yiassounai refilled the basin from the kettle as needed. Joshua washed the feet of Judas, wiped, 
and kissed them, looking up at Judas with love and pity. 
When  he  had  washed  the  feet  of  all  his  companion-disciples,  he  said  to  them, ‘My  beloved 
ones, a new commandment I give to  you:  Love one another as I love  you.  Love one another and by 
this all will know that you are my disciples.’ 
The God-man then took his seat again, and they ate. As they were eating, Joshua said, ‘One of 
you tonight will betray me.’ 
Petros whispered to Yiohannan at his side to ask which of them would do this. Yiohannan knew 
the  answer,  but  feigned  not  to  hear  the  question.  Several  voices  asked  the  God-man, ‘Which  of  us 
will betray you?’ 
Judas looking at Joshua said, ‘Betray you? Or...’ 
‘The one I give a piece of bread, dipped in my plate.’ said the solemn Joshua, ‘he shall betray 
me.’ And so saying he took a piece of bread, dipped it, and gave it to Judas. ‘What you mean to do,’ 
the God-man said, ‘do it quickly.’ Judas took the bread and with a sly smile he left them. 
Joshua, giving bread to his disciples, said to them ‘Take this and eat it. This is my body given to 
all that their sins be forgiven.’ Filling a large clay bowl with wine and giving it to them to drink, he 
said, ‘Take this and drink of it, all of you. This is my blood given to all so that their sins be forgiven.’ 
Now before the Feast of the Passover when Joshua knew that his hour had come that he should 
depart  from  this  world  to  go  to  his  Father,  having  loved  his  own  who  were  in  the  world,  he  loved 
them all to the end. And supper being ended, the demon having already put it into the heart of Judas 
the  Iscariot,  the  son  of  Simon,  to  betray  him,  Joshua,  knowing  that  the  Father  had  given  all  things 
into his hands and that he had come from Alaha and was going again to Alaha, rose from supper and 
laid aside his garments, took a towel and girded himself After that he poured water into a basin, he 
began to wash his disciples’ feet and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded. When he 
came to Petros, Petros said to him, ‘Malpana, are you washing my feet?’ Joshua said to Petros, 
‘What I am doing now you do not understand now, but you will understand later.’ Petros said to 
Joshua, ‘You shall never wash my feet, Malpana,’ and Joshua said to Petros, ‘If I do not wash your 
feet you will have no part with me.’ Petros said to Joshua looking at him with love, ‘Malpana, if this 
is so, wash not only my feet but wash also my hands and my head.’ Joshua said to Petros, ‘He who is 
bathed needs only to wash his feet and he is clean. You are clean but not all of you.’ For Joshua knew 
who was going to betray him. For this he said, ‘You are not all of you clean.’ 
When  he  had  washed  their  feet,  he  had  taken  his  garments  and  sat  down  again  and  said  to 
them, ‘Do you know what I have done to you now?’ You call me Malpana and Mshiha and you say 
well, for so I am. If I then your Mshiha and Malpana have washed your feet, you also must wash one 
another’s feet.  For  I  have  given  you  an  example  that  you  should  do  as  I  have  done  to  you.  Most 
assuredly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent, greater than he 
who sent him. If you know these things, happy are you if you do them. I do not speak concerning all 
of you, I know whom I have chosen, but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, “He who eats bread with 
me has lifted up his heel against me.” Now I tell you before it comes, that when it does come to pass, 
you may believe that I am he. Most assuredly, I say to you, he who receives whomever I send receives 
me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.’ When Joshua had said these words he was 

200 
 
troubled in Spirit and testified and said, ‘Most assuredly, I say to you, one of you will betray me.’ 
Then  the  disciples  looked  at  one  another at  a  loss  to  know  about  whom  Joshua  was  speaking.  Now 
there  was,  leaning  on  Joshua’s bosom  one  of  Joshua’s disciples  whom  Joshua  loved.  Simon  Petros 
motioned to him to ask who it was of whom Joshua spoke. Then leaning back on Joshua’s breast he 
said to Joshua, ‘Mshiha who is it?’ Joshua said, ‘It is he to whom I shall give a piece of bread when I 
have dipped it.’ And having dipped the bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot. Now after Judas had taken 
the piece of bread, the demon had entered in him. Then Joshua said to him, ‘What you have in your 
mind to do, do it quickly’ No one at the table knew for what reason Joshua said this to Judas. Some 
thought  that  because  Judas  had  the  money  box,  Joshua  had  sent  him  to  buy  something  they  needed 
for the feast, or to give some money to the poor in need. After Judas had taken the piece of bread, he 
went out in the night. 
After Judas had gone out Joshua said to his disciples, ‘Now the Son of Man is glorified and 
Alaha  is  glorified  in  him.  If  Alaha  is  glorified  in  the  Son  of  Man,  Alaha  will  also  glorify  him  in 
himself and will glorify him immediately. Little children, I shall be with you a little while longer. You 
will seek me and as I said to the Israelites, “Where I am going you cannot come,” so now I say to 
you, “A new commandment I give to you: Love one another as I have loved you, you must love one 
another.” By this all will know that you are my disciples, seeing you love one another.’ Simon Petros 
said to Joshua, ‘Mshiha where are you going?’ Joshua said to Petros, ‘Where I am going, you cannot 
follow me now, but you shall follow me afterwards.’ Petros said to Joshua, ‘Mshiha  why  can  I  not 
follow you now? I will lay down my life for you.’ Joshua smiling said to Petros, ‘You will lay down 
your life for me? Most assuredly, I say to you, Petros, that before the cock will crow you will deny me 
three times.' (cf. John 13:1—38) 
‘Let not your heart be troubled; you believe in Alaha, believe in me also. In my Father’s house 
are  many  mansions,  if  it  were  not  so,  I  would  have  told  you.  I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for  you.  And 
when I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and I will receive you to myself, that where 
I am, there you may be also. And where I go, you know, and the way you know.’ Thomas said to 
Joshua, ‘Mshiha, we do not know where you are going, and how can we know the way?’ Joshua said 
to Thomas, ‘I am the Way, the Truth and the Life. No one comes to the Father Alaha except through 
me.  If  you  had  known  me,  you  would  have  known  my  Father  also,  and  from  now  on  you  know  him 
and have seen him.’ Philippos said to Joshua, 'Mshiha, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us.’ 
Joshua said to Philippos, ‘Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not known me, Philippos? 
He who sees me, sees in me the Father also, so how can you say “Show us the Father”. Do you not 
believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I speak to you I do not speak 
on  my  own  authority,  but  the  Father  who  dwells  in  me  does  the  works.  Believe  me  that  I  am  in  the 
Father  and  the  Father  is  in  me  or  else  believe  me  for  the  sake  of  the  works  themselves.  Most 
assuredly, I say to you, he who believes in me, the works that I do he will do also, and greater works 
than these he will do, because I go to the Father. And whatever you ask in my name, that I will do, 
that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. If you love 
me,  keep  my  commandments.  And  I  will  pray  to  Father  Alaha  and  Alaha  will  give  you  another 
Helper,  that  he  may  abide  with  you  forever,  the  Holy  Spirit  of  the  Truth,  whom  the  world  cannot 
receive, because the world can neither see him, nor know him; but you know him, for the Holy Spirit 
dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you orphans, I shall come to you. 
A little while longer and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, and 
you will live also. At that day, you will know that I am in my Father Alaha, and that you are in me, 
and I am in you. He who keeps my commandments is the one who really loves me, and the one who 
loves me will be loved by Alaha, my Father, and I will love him and I will manifest my Self to him.’ 
Judas, not the Iscariot, said to Joshua, ‘Mshiha, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not 
to the world?’ Joshua said: ‘If anyone loves me, he will keep my commandments and my Father will 
love  him,  and  we,  the Father Alaha  and myself,  will  come to  him  and  make  our  home  with  him.  He 

201 
 
who does not love me does not keep my commandments, and the commandments which you hear me 
giving  to  you  are  not  mine,  but  they  are  commandments  of  my  Father  Alaha  who  sent  me  to  the 
world. 
These things I have spoken to you while being present with you. But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, 
whom  Alaha,  the  Father  will  send  to  you  in  my name,  will  teach  you  all  things,  and  bring  to  your 
remembrance all the things I am telling you now. Peace I leave to be in you. My Peace I give to you, 
not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled and do not be afraid. You have 
heard me say to you, “I am going away and I will come back to you.” If you really loved me, you 
would rejoice because I said to you “I am going to my Father Alaha,” for our Father is greater than 
I. And now I have told you all this before it comes, that when it comes to pass, you may believe. I will 
no  longer  talk  much  with  you,  for  the  insane  ruler  in  this  world  is  coming  against  me  and  he  has 
nothing in me. But that the world may know that I love Alaha, the Father, and as the Father gave me 
his commandment, so I do. Arise, let us go now from here.’ (cf. John 14:1-31) 
Joshua thanked Aaron and Hannah Maria for their kindness in offering their house that he and 
his  disciples  might  take  this  last  supper  together.  And  he  thanked  them  for  the  great  love they  had 
shown  his  mother  Maria  and  Maria  Magdalena  while  guests,  this  past  month,  in  their house.  The 
God-man gathered the whole household together in the room where they had eaten to sing with him 
his worship prayer to Alaha. 
‘Our Heavenly Father, Holy is your name. Your Kingdom is here too. Your Will is done in the 
Heavens, as it is on the Earth. For  yours is the Kingdom and the Power and the Glory forever. So it 
is.’ 
Yiassounai  was  close  to  tears  again.  Yiohannan  spoke  to  him  softly, ‘Sounai,  calm  yourself. 
The Will of Alaha be done.’ 
Yiohannan  asked  his  aunt,  Maria,  mother  of  Joshua,  to  stay  the  night  in  the  house  of Hannah 
Maria with her sister Myriam Shalome, Maria Magdalena, Yiassounai, Aethra and Naomi. 
Joshua  embraced  and  kissed  his  mother  and  Myriam  Shalome  before  leaving  the  house  of 
Hannah  Maria  and  then  with  eight  of  his  companion-disciples;  Yiohannan,  the  Yiacoubs, Petros, 
Andreas,  Philippos,  Simon  and  Matai,  he  went  to  the  garden  of  Gethsemane,  an  olive grove  six 
hundred  yards  from  Aaron’s house.  This  was  a  place  where  Joshua,  with  Yiohannan and  the 
Yiacoubs,  had  passed  many  moonlit  summer  nights  praying  to Alaha.  Judas  the  Iscariot knew  the 
place well. 
 
IN GETHSEMANE 
Sitting on a flat stone under one of the large olive trees with his disciples sitting cross-legged on the 
ground before him, Joshua, the Son of Man, said to them,  
My beloved ones, I am the vine, the true vine and my Father is the vine-dresser. Every branch 
in me that does not bear fruit he takes away; and every branch which bears fruit he prunes, so that it 
will bear more fruit. You are already clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. Abide in 
me,  and  I  in  you.  As  the  branch  cannot  bear  fruit  of  itself,  unless  it  abides  in  the  vine,  neither  can 
you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine and you are the branches. He who abides in me, and I in 
him, bears much fruit, for without me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me, he is cast 
out  as  a  branch  and  is  withered,  and  they  gather  them  and  throw  them  into  the  fire,  and  they  are 
burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire and it shall be 
done  for  you.  By  this  my  Father  is  glorified,  that  you  bear  much  fruit,  so  that  you  shall  be  my 
disciples.  As  the  Father  Alaha  loved  me,  I  also have  loved  you.  Abide  in  my  love.  If  you  keep  my 
commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commandments and abide 
in Alaha’s Love. These things I have spoken to you that my joy may remain in you and that your jay 
may he full. This is my commandment} that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love 
has no one than this, my love to all the human beings, to lay down his life for his beloved ones, all the 

202 
 
human beings. All of you are my friends if you do whatever I command you. No longer do I call you 
servants,  for  a  servant  does  not  know  what  his  Master  is  doing,  but  I  have  called  you  my  beloved 
ones, for all things which I have heard from the Father Alaha I have made known to you. You did not 
choose  me,  but  I  have  chosen  you  and  I  have  appointed  you  that  you  should  go  and  bear  fruit  and 
that your fruit should remain, that whatever you ask Alaha, the Father in my name, Alaha will give 
you.  These  things  I  command  you,  that  you  love  one  another.  If  the  world  hates  you,  know  that  the 
world  hated  me  before  it  hated  you.  If  you  were  of  this  world,  the  world  would  love  its  own,  but 
because  you  are  not  of  this  world,  but  I  have  chosen  you  out  of  this  world,  the  world  hates  you. 
Remember the word that I said to you, ‘A servant is not greater than his master.’ If they persecuted 
me they will also persecute you. If they keep my words they will keep yours also. But all these things 
they will do to you for my name’s sake, because they do not know him who had sent me. If I had not 
come and spoken to them, they would have no sin, but now they have no excuse for their sins. He who 
hates me hates my Father also. If I had not done among them the works which no one had done, they 
would  have  no  sin,  but  now  they  have  seen  and  they  have  hated  both  me  and  Alaha,  the  Heavenly 
Father.  But  all  this  is  happening  so  that  the  words  may  be  fulfilled which  are  written  in  their  law, 
“They hated me without a cause.” When the Helper comes, the Holy Spirit, the Alaha Shekhinah, 
whom I shall send to you from my Father Alaha, the Spirit of the Truth who proceeds from the Father 
Alaha, he will testify of me. And you also will bear witness, because you have been with me from the 
beginning. (cf. John 15:1–27) 
I have spoken all these things to you so that you should not be weak to stumble. They will put 
you  out  of  their  synagogues;  the  time  will  come  that  whoever  kills  you  will  believe  that  he  offers 
service  to  his Alaha.  All  these  things  they  will  do  to  you  because  they  have  not  known  the  Father 
Alaha or me. All these things I am telling you so that when the time comes, you may remember what I 
am telling you now of them. I did not say these things to you before, because I was with you. (John 
16:1–4)  
A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me, because I 
am  going  to  the  Father  Alaha.  Most  assuredly,  I  say  to  you  that  you  will  weep  and  lament  and  the 
world  will  rejoice.  You  will  be  sorrowful,  but  your  sorrow  will  be  turned  into  great  joy.  Now  you 
have sorrow, but I will see you again and your heart will rejoice and your joy, your great joy, no one 
will be able to take it from you. (John 16:16, 20, 22) 
Joshua could see that his disciples were exhausted. Having given them a little more instruction, 
he  signaled  Yiohannan,  Yiacoub  son  of  Yioussouf,  and  Petros  to  follow  him,  leaving the  others  to 
sleep a while. 
When they had  gone a little distance Joshua asked his companions to pray with him to Alaha. 
Joshua knelt by a rock that was a few yards further and, resting his forehead on it, prayed. He foresaw 
what, over the centuries, was going to take place in his name and in the name of his Heavenly Father 
Alaha. He foresaw the persecutions of his followers by idolaters. He foresaw how his followers, so-
called Christians, distorted his teaching of Love of Alaha and Love of Man, created new dogmas and 
heresies  and  killed  one  another.  He  foresaw  how  so-called Christian  nations  declared  war against 
other Christian nations, using his name and the Holy name of Alaha. Seeing the violence, the cruelty, 
the  torture,  the  burning  of  heretics,  the  wars, he  wept;  tears  running  down  the  cheeks  of  the  Son  of 
Man, the God-man Joshua. 
‘Holy  Father Alaha, this  cup  is  filled  with  so  much  human  blood,  spilled  over  so  many 
centuries, the blood of the victims and the executioners, my blood, the blood of the Son of Man. My 
Holy Father, if it is possible, take this cup from me. But not what I will, but what you will be done.’ 
  

203 
 
Returning to his three disciples, Joshua found only Yiohannan awake, looking at him with great 
love; for Yiohannan in full at-one-ment with Joshua, knew what the God-man as the Son of Man had 
foreseen. Joshua said to him in Greek,  
 
 
 
My Soul is exceedingly sorrowful even to death. 
 
Joshua returned to the rock, where he knelt in worship to his  Father.  Again Joshua came back 
where  his  disciples  slept  and  he  said  to  them, ‘You  are  sleeping  and  at  rest,  but  the  hour has  come 
when the Son of Man will be betrayed and given up to sinners. Rise up now. Let us go to them. The 
betrayer is at hand.’ 
When Joshua was  speaking he went out with his three disciples over the Brook Kidron, where 
there was a garden which Joshua and his disciples entered. Judas, who betrayed Joshua, knew also 
the  place,  for  Joshua  often  met  there  with  his  disciples.  Then  Judas,  having  taken  a  detachment  of 
Sanhedrin executioners, and of men of the Israelite Rayis Rabbis, and the Pharisees, came there with 
lanterns, torches and weapons. Joshua, knowing all things that would come upon him went forward 
and said to them: ‘Whom are you seeking?’ They said to him: Joshua of Nazareth. ‘Joshua said to 
them, ‘I am Joshua of Nazareth.’ And Judas, who betrayed Joshua, stood also with them. When 
Joshua said to them ‘I am Joshua of Nazareth’ they drew back and fell to the ground. Then Joshua 
had asked them again: ‘Whom are you seeking?’ And they said, Joshua of Nazareth. ‘Joshua said to 
them ‘I have told you that I am he. Therefore if you seek me, let these go their way.’ That the saying 
might be fulfilled which he spoke, ‘Of those you have given me I have lost none. ‘Then Petros, having 
a sword, drew it and struck the Rayis Rabbi’s servant and cut off his right ear. The name of the Rayis 
Rabbi’s servant  was  Malchus.  Joshua  took  from  the  ground  the  cut  off  right  ear  of  Malchus  and 
placed it in its place, healing Malchus, and said to Petros: ‘Petros, put your sword into the sheath. 
Shall I not drink the cup which my Father has given me to drink?’ (cf. John 18:1–11) 
 
 
Joshua said to him, ‘Put the sword in its place because all who use the sword will die by the sword.’ 
(Matthew 26:52) 
 
Joshua said it in Aramaic so all could hear. 
Joshua  told  his  disciples  to  go  quietly.  Seeing  among  the  executioners  three  Israelite  Rayis 
Rabbis of the Sanhedrin and two other Israelite Rabbis, he said to them, ‘My good Rabbis, every day 
that I have been in Yerushalayim, you have seen me in the synagogues and in the temples preaching, 
teaching, and healing. Two of you have heard me in the Essene synagogue and in your synagogues, 
where  I  had  been  invited.  You  had  many opportunities  to  arrest  me  then  in daylight.  And  yet  you 
come in the dark of the night with arms and men. Is it a robber you come to arrest?’ 
  

204 
 
While  he  spoke,  Judas  the  Iscariot  approached  Joshua  and  embraced  and  kissed  him,  saying, 
‘Rabbi, Rabbi, I greet you.’ Joshua looked at him with love saying, ‘Judas do you betray the one who 
loves  you  with  a  kiss?  All  of  them  know  me,  Judas.’ And  thus  by  order  of  the  Rayis Rabbis  the 
executioners of the Sanhedrin arrested the God-man. They were rough with him and abusive to please 
the Rabbis. They dragged him to the house of Annas, the father-in-law of the Rayis Rabbi Kaiaphas, 
and  a  few  minutes  later  to  the  Sanhedrin  Hall  where  Kaiaphas  had gathered  the  Judges  and  some 
other Rayis Rabbis he had carefully chosen. He meant to act quickly. 
And those who had laid hold of Joshua led him away to Kaiaphas the Rayis Rabbi, where the 
Scribes  and  the  Elders  were  gathered.  Petros  followed  Joshua  at  a  distance  to  the  Rayis  Rabbi’s 
courtyard. And he went in and sat with the servants to see the end. The Rayis Rabbi, the Elders and 
all the Council sought false testimony against Joshua to put him to death, but had found none. Even 
though  many  false  witnesses  came  forward,  they  found  none.  But  at  last  two  false  witnesses  came 
forward, and said, ‘This fellow said, “I am able to destroy the temple of Alaha and to build it in three 
days.”’ And the Rayis Rabbi Kaiaphas arose and said to Joshua, ‘Do you answer nothing? What is it 
that these men testify against you?’ But Joshua kept silent. Then  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Kaiaphas  said  to 
Joshua, ‘I adjure you by the living Alaha that you tell us if you are the Mshiha, the Son of Alaha.’ 
Joshua said to Kaiaphas, ‘It is as you said. I say to you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting 
at the right hand of the Power, and coming on the clouds of Heaven.’ Then the Rayis Rabbi Kaiaphas 
tore his clothes in great anger, saying, ‘He has spoken blasphemy. What further need do we have of 
witnesses? Look, now you have heard him. You have heard his blasphemy. What do you think now?’ 
The Sanhedrin Judges answered and said, ‘He deserves death.’ Then they spat in the face of Joshua 
and beat him and the executioners struck him with the fists of their hands, saying: ‘Prophesy to us, 
Mshiha, who is the one who struck you?’ Petros sat outside in the courtyard and a servant girl came 
to him, saying, ‘You were also with Joshua of Galilee.’ Petros denied it before them all, saying, ‘I do 
not know what you are saying.’ And when he had gone out to the gateway, another girl saw him and 
said to those who were there, ‘This man was also with Joshua of Nazareth.’ But again Petros denied 
with an oath, ‘I do not know the man.’ After a while, those who stood by came to Petros and said to 
him, ‘surely you are also one of Joshua’s men. Your speech betrays you.’ And Petros began to curse 
and swear, saying, ‘I do not know the man.’ And the cock crowed. Petros remembered the words of 
Joshua, ‘Petros, before the cock crows, you will deny me three times.’ And Petros went out and wept 
bitterly. (Matthew 26:57–75)  
Judas,  concealed  in  a  shadowed  corner  of  the  hall  saw  the  Sanhedrin  executioners  and others 
hitting and kicking the Son of Man. He saw the bruises on Joshua’s face and body and the blood. He 
sought out the Zealot who had persuaded him to lead the executioners to Joshua that night and he said 
to him apprehensively, ‘Friend, Kaiaphas has deceived us. Didn’t he promise me that no harm would 
come to Joshua? That he only meant to persuade him to use his powers against the Romans?’ 
‘What powers,  you  stupid  fellow,’ the  other  sneered. ‘Where  are  those  fabled “powers” now? 
The Sanhedrin meant to arrest him and sooner or later they would. What are you complaining about? 
You got your thirty pieces of silver for showing them where he was.’ 
While  the  executioners  were  brutalizing  Joshua,  Kaiaphas  said  to  the  Judges, ‘Honorable 
Judges of the Sanhedrin, you have unanimously convicted this Essene Rabbi to death for blasphemy. 
I propose that he be crucified on Calvary tomorrow. The wooden cross is even now being fashioned. 
But we need the approval of the Roman Governor, Pontius Pilatus. Very early in the morning we will 
go,  all  of  us,  with  the  man  to  Pilatus.  We  will  gather  a  large, noisy  crowd  to  shout,  demanding  the 
death of this Essene who, as an Essene, is under our jurisdiction.’ 
  

205 
 
And  so  a  few  minutes  after  sunrise  the  following  morning,  Joshua  bruised  and  wounded, was 
dragged before Pontius Pilatus.  
Lucius,  the  Governor’s private  secretary,  informed  Pilatus  that  Kaiaphas  and  five Sanhedrin 
Judges  had  arrived  with  an  Essene  Rabbi,  who  showed  all  the  signs  of  a  beating.  Now Lucius  had 
heard from Flaviano and from Claudia, the wife of Pilatus, much about the Essene Rabbi, Joshua, and 
he ran to the rooms of Claudia to tell her what was happening. 
Four  Roman  sword-bearers  led  Joshua  before  the  Roman  Governor.  An  Israelite  interpreter 
translated into Latin the charges brought against the Essene Rabbi by Kaiaphas and the five Judges. 
Pontius Pilatus said to Joshua, ‘Non audis quanta adversum te dicunt testimonial’ (Do you not 
hear  how  many  things  they  testify  against  you?)  The  God-man  was  silent. ‘Tu es rex Iudaeorum?’ 
(Are you the King of the Jews?), said Pontius Pilatus. 
Joshua replied in  Latin. ‘A temetipso hoc dicis an alii dixerunt tibi de me?’ (Are you speaking 
for yourself or have others said this of me?) 
‘Nunquid  ego  Iudaeus  sum?’ (Am  I  a  Jew?), the  Governor  said. ‘Gens  tua  et  pontifices 
tradiderunt te mihi: quid fecisti?’ (Your nation and the Rayis Rabbis have delivered you to me. What 
have you done?) And again the Roman Governor said, ‘Tu es rex?’ (Are you a King?) 
Joshua  said, ‘Regnum meum non est de hoc mundo. Si ex hoc mundo esset regnum meum, 
ministri mei utique decertarent ut non traderer Iudaeis; nunc autem regnum meum non est hinc’ (My 
Kingdom is not of this world. If my Kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight, so that I 
should not be delivered to the Jews; but now my Kingdom is not from here). 
‘Ergo rex es tu?’ (So you are a King?), said the Governor. 
Joshua answered him saying, ‘Tu dicis quia rex sum ego. Ego in hoc natus sum et ad hoc veni 
in mundum ut testimonium perhibeam veritati: Omnis qui est ex veritate audit vocem meam’ (You say 
rightly that I am a King. For this I was born and for this have I come into the world, that I should bear 
witness to the Truth. Everyone who is of the Truth hears my voice).  
Smiling, the Governor said, ‘Quid est veritas?’ (What is Truth?) 
Pontius Pilatus turned to the Sanhedrin Judges saying, ‘Take him. He is yours to judge. He is an 
Essene, under your jurisdiction. I send him to your King Herod. I would like his opinion.’ 
Kaiaphas  replied, ‘Your  Excellency,  the  Judges  of  the  Sanhedrin  have  found  him  guilty 
according  to  Mosaic  Law  and  have  condemned  him  to  death.  We  are  here  for  your  approval  of the 
execution as required by Caesar’s orders.’ 
Pontius  Pilatus  called  his  private  secretary  and  said  to  him, ‘Lucius,  tell  the  centurion to  take 
this  Essene  Rabbi  with  ten  sword-bearers  to  the  Palace  of  King  Herod  and  go  with them.  The 
Honorable  Sanhedrin Judges  and  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Kaiaphas  will  go  with  you.  I want  the  opinion  of 
Herod on this case. After all, as an Essene the man is under Herod’s jurisdiction.’ 
The palace was not far and they went on foot. Kaiaphas and the Judges talked privately with the 
King, who emerged from his audience room in a rage. ‘So you are the King of the Israelites,’ he said 
glaring at Joshua. ‘Who am I then?’ And he raised his hand and slapped the God-man’s face, leaving 
a swelling bruise. Concealed in a corner of the room, Judas stood silent witness. 
Herod laughing loudly, mirthlessly said to his guards, ‘The King of the Jews, is he? Well, let’s 
have a look at this King of the Jews.’ Herod ordered a guard to fashion a crown from the skurupathea 
bush that fenced the Palace yard. The thorns of this bush were as long and sharp as nails. Herod then 
ordered the guards to remove from Joshua his long white robe which was torn and blood-stained and 
replace  it  with  a  purple  one  that  had  been  discarded,  filthy  and  torn too.  He  sent  another  guard  to 
fetch a thick cane, about three feet long, that the servants had been using to clean the clay pipes that 
drained the dirty water from the kitchen. A servant wiped the cane and brought it to Herod who said, 
‘Give it to our King. A King must hold a symbol of his power.’ 

206 
 
Herod ordered the guard who brought him the thorny wreath to put it with force on the head of 
Joshua,  to crown  the ‘King’.  The  brutal thorns  pierced  his  skin  and  blood  ran  down  the God-man’s 
cheeks. 
On the King’s orders the guards beat and kicked the God-man, until Herod, tired of the game, 
said, ‘Enough.  I’ve  had  enough  of  it.’ To  Kaiaphas  he  said, ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi  and Honorable 
Judges of the Sanhedrin, tell the Roman governor that I agree with the decision of the court. This man 
is a dangerous agitator. He must die. Take him away.’ 
The  centurion  and  the  sword-bearers  returned  to  the  Roman  Governor  with  the  prisoner. The 
Governor ordered them to remove the thorns from Joshua’s head and return his robe to him. 
Lucius,  who  was  filled  with  disgust  by  what  he  had  seen  and  heard,  reported  it  all  to Pontius 
Pilatus. ‘My dear  Lucius,’ the  Governor said, ‘Octaviano,  Flaviano, and my wife Claudia, have told 
me  much  about  the  Essene  Rabbi.  Even  now Claudia  and  Veronica are  weeping  inconsolably.  The 
man is innocent. He is only a dreamer, but what can I do for him? He is an Essene and thus under the 
jurisdiction of Herod and the Sanhedrin. The Judges have sentenced him to death. How many times 
have I offered Roman citizenship to these stupid Essenes for their own protection. If this Rabbi were 
a Roman citizen, the Sanhedrin would not dare lay hands on him. Listen to that mob, shouting in the 
courtyard.  They  are  paid  for  their  trouble  by the  Sanhedrin.  I  will  teach these  pig-headed Essenes  a 
lesson. I will say that I do not find this man guilty according to Roman Law. Come, I will try to save 
him.’ 
Now at the Passover Feast the Roman Governor was accustomed to release one prisoner to the 
Israelites, whomever they requested. And there was one named Barabbas who was chained with his 
fellow  insurrectionists:  they  had  committed  murder  in  the  insurrection.  Then  the  multitude,  crying 
aloud,  began  to  ask  him  to  do  just  as  he  had  always  done  for  them.  But  Pilatus  answered  them, 
saying, ‘Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?’ For Pilatus knew that the Rayis 
Rabbis had handed him over because of envy. But the Rayis Rabbis stirred up the crowd, so that he 
should rather release Barabbas to them. And Pilatus answered and said to them again. ‘What then do 
you want me to do with him whom you call the King of the Jews?'’ They cried out again, ‘Crucify 
Him.’ Then Pilatus said to them: ‘Why, what evil has he done?’ And the crowd cried out more 
exceedingly ‘Crucify him.’ So Pilatus, wanting to gratify the crowd, released Barabbas to them; and 
he delivered Joshua to be crucified. (Mark 15: 6-15) 
The  Roman  Governor  asked  Lucius  to  bring  him  a  basin  of  water and  he  said  to Kaiaphas, to 
the Judges, and to the crowd as he washed his hands, ‘Innocens ego sum a sanguine iusti huius. Vos 
videritis’ (I am innocent of the blood of this just man. You see to it.)  
To Kaiaphas and the Judges he said, ‘Honorable Judges of the Sanhedrin, I, as Governor, order 
you to crucify this Essene Rabbi you have condemned to death. Dressed in your Sanhedrin robes, you 
will  lead  the  procession  to  the  hill  called  Calvary.  A  Roman  centurion with  his  spear-bearers  will 
escort you. There will be two rows of spear-bearers to hold back the crowd, one on the left and one 
on  the  right  side.  They  will  form  a  barricade  by  holding  the  joined spears.  The  Judges  will  be  a 
distance of fifteen to twenty feet ahead of the Essene Rabbi as he carries his cross. And there must be 
a  distance  of  another  fifteen  to  twenty  feet separating  him from  the  crowd,  with  a  line  of  spear-
bearers  between.  No  one  will  be  permitted  to  approach  the prisoner  without  permission  of  the 
centurion.’ 
‘On  Calvary  a  circle  of  sword-bearers  and  spear-bearers  will  keep  the  crowd  back  twenty feet 
from  the  crucified  Rabbi.  The  Judges  will  stand  ten  feet  away  within  the  circle.  The  executioners 
must leave immediately after the crucifixion. A piece of wood is to be nailed on top of the cross on 
which will be written in Latin, Greek and Aramaic “Joshua of Nazareth, King of the Jews.”’ 

207 
 
 
 
 
Kaiaphas  and  the  Judges  protested  this  last  order,  but  Pontius  Pilatus  replied  angrily, ‘Quod 
scripsi scripsi’ (What I have written, I have written). 
Kaiaphas  and  the  Judges  of  the  Sanhedrin  went  to  the  Sanhedrin  Hall  to  put on  their  official 
robes  as  the  Roman  Governor  had  directed.  There  Judas  found  them  and  in  anger  mixed with  deep 
despair he denounced them. ‘Liars!’ he cried, ‘Monsters! Murderers! You have lied to me. You have 
deceived  me.  Joshua  is  innocent  and  you  know it.’ And  he  hurled  the  thirty  pieces  of  silver  to  the 
floor.  Kaiaphas,  gathering  up  the  coins,  said, ‘Young  man,  be  on  your  way.  We have  not  time  to 
argue with you now.’ 
Despair as heavy as a stone on his heart, Judas, running, stumbling, falling, blinded by his tears 
came  to  the  garden  of  Gethsemane,  to  the  olive  tree  where  only  hours  ago  they  had  sat together  at 
Joshua’s feet,  listening  to  his  instructions. ‘Joshua,’ Judas  sobbed. ‘Last  night  you washed  my  feet 
and kissed them. What has happened? Have  you lost  your powers?  I only meant to force you to use 
them.’ And with his leather belt, Judas hung himself from the tree. 
Early  that  morning  Petros  went  to  the  house  of  Aaron  to  tell  the  family  what  had  happened 
during  that  dark  night.  An  Israelite disciple-healer  in  the  noisy  crowd  that  was  gathering  told them 
through his tears that in a few minutes the Roman soldiers would lead Joshua to Calvary, where they 
would crucify him. 
Maria, the mother of the God-man, Hannah Maria, Myriam Shalome, Maria Magdalena, Aethra 
and Naomi made hurried preparations to leave. Yiohannan and five Israelite disciple-healers left with 
them.  They  found  a  place  near  the  front  of  the  procession,  near  the  spear-bearers. Veronica 
approached Yiohannan, who took her to his mother, Myriam Shalome and to his aunt, Maria. 
As  he  struggled  up  the  hill,  Joshua  stumbled  and  fell  under  the  weight  of  his  cross.  The 
centurion helped him to his feet. 
Yiassounai,  in  front  of  the  procession  and  to  the  right,  lifted  the  spear  of  one  of  the  spear-
bearers and  slipped  through  the  barricade.  Seeing  Joshua  bearing  the  heavy  cross,  his  robe  torn and 
blood stained, his knees bloodied, and his face swollen and bruised, he cried out, ‘No! No!’  
Trying to lift the spear again to escape before the crowd engulfed him, Yiassounai so angered 
the  spear-bearer  that  the  Roman  stamped  with  great  force  on  the  boy’s right  foot  with  his heavy 
sandal, crushing the boy’s toes. The man then kicked Yiassounai aside, throwing him into a ditch. 
With  blood  running  from  the wounds  and  in  excruciating  pain,  Yiassounai  crawled  slowly to 
the  road  where  an  Essene  on  horseback  came  upon  him,  and  jumping  down  from  the  saddle, cried, 
‘Yiassounai,  what’s happened  to  you?'’ Yiassounai  could  not  speak.  He  only  gestured towards  the 
crowd going up the hill as he wept. 
Heavy clouds had covered the sun. The sky was streaked with lightening and loud thunder filled 
the air.  
The  horseman  gathered  Yiassounai  up  and  they  galloped  to  Yiassounai’s house.  There  he left 
him  at  the  gate,  looking  over  his  shoulder  at  the  gathering  storm  with  foreboding. Yiassounai,  on 
hands  and  knees,  was  trying  to  open  the  gate,  when  the  earth  quaked  and  flung the  gate  open, 
dropping a large stone from the top of the wall a few inches from the boy. Four goats, confused and 
frightened  were  running  around  the  yard  and  bleating  for  the  herd.  There was  panic  and  confusion 
throughout the city. Never before had there been an earthquake in Palestine. 

208 
 
Yiassounai  crawled  to  a  storeroom  in  the  house  where  sheaves  of  flax  were piled.  He  threw 
himself  on  one  of  the  sheaves  and  there  he  left  his  material  body  while  he  went  to  Calvary  to his 
Most Beloved Joshua. 
On  the  way  to  Calvary,  Joshua  stumbled  again  and  fell.  Veronica  ran  to  him  and  she  and the 
centurion helped him up. Weeping Veronica wiped the blood and sweat from his face with her shawl. 
Kaiaphas  and  two  of  the  Judges  approached  them  protesting  angrily.  The  centurion pushed  them 
away  and  in  a  commanding  voice  told  them  to  go  back  to  their  places  and  keep their  silence. 
Veronica returned to Maria. 
Again,  for  a  third  time,  Joshua  fell,  this  time  under  the  cross.  When  the  centurion  had  raised 
him  up,  he  asked  the  crowd  in  Latin  if  there  was  anyone  there  willing  to  carry  the  cross.  A strong, 
young  Essene,  who  understood  the  language,  approached  with  Veronica.  And  thus  Simon the 
Kyrenian, from Kyrene on the island of Kittim (Cyprus), carried the God-man’s cross. 
On the hilltop the Roman spearbearers made a circle to keep the crowd twenty feet back as the 
Governor had ordered, while Kaiaphas and the Judges stood ten feet from the place of execution. The 
executioners stripped Joshua of his robe and wound a piece of cloth around his hips. The cross lay on 
the ground. They ordered the Son of Man to lay his body on the cross face upward. 
Two  of  them  stretched  out  his  arms,  palms  up.  One  of  the  executioners  held  four  nails,  six 
inches long with large heads. He gave one of these nails to the man holding Joshua’s right hand. With 
an iron hammer another executioner drove the nail with several heavy blows through Joshua’s hand 
and through the cross bar until it extended three inches beyond the wood. And this monstrous act they 
repeated, nailing the God-man’s left hand and both his feet. 
They bound the body of Joshua to the cross with a wet rope across his chest and under his arms. 
Then  they  raised  the  cross  with  the  God-man  nailed  to  it  setting  it  into  a  hole  eighteen inches  deep 
and shoring it up with heavy stones. Joshua’s feet hung about a foot from the ground. The hole filled 
with  his blood.  His  blood  would  pour  out  of  him  until  he  died.  Two thieves,  tied  to  crosses  beside 
him, were left to die of heatstroke and hunger. 
 
ON THE CROSS 
The Son of Man, on the cross, was in agony and yet from the hour of his arrest, Joshua had suffered 
all the brutalities and tortures inflicted on his material body with calm serenity.  
Kaiaphas  and  the  Judges  at  the  foot  of  the  cross  taunted  him  mercilessly. ‘He  is  invoking the 
demons in him,’ Kaiaphas shouted. ‘He has many tricks by which he has deceived the people. Behold 
the Mshiha, the Son of Alaha,’ said Kaiaphas laughing scornfully. And pointing to Joshua, he added, 
 
 
 
 
 
He gave life to others. Himself he cannot 
save. If he is the King of Israel, let him now 
come down from the cross and we will 
believe him. 
 
 
 
 
 
Joshua’s eyes were full of pity and sighing deeply he said in Aramaic, 

209 
 
 
 
Alaha, Alaha, why have you forsaken me in them? (cf. Matthew 27:46) 
 
Looking  down  upon  his  tormentors,  the  Son  of  Man  said, ‘My  Father Alaha,  forgive  them. 
They do not know what they are doing.’ 
One of the criminals said to Joshua, ‘Do you not hear what they say? If you are the Mshiha, the 
Son of Alaha, save yourself. And save us too.’ 
The other, who must have heard of Joshua’s teachings, replied, ‘Don’t you fear Alaha.’ We are 
suffering  justly.  We  reap  the  harvest  of  our  crimes, but this man has done no wrong.’ Looking  at 
Joshua he said, ‘Mshiha, remember me when you come into your Kingdom of the Heavens.’ 
Joshua  looked  at  the  dying  man  with  tenderness  and  love. ‘Assuredly,  I  say  to  you,’ he  said 
softly, ‘your sins are forgiven. Today you will be with me in Paradise.’ 
Veronica  approached  the  centurion  and  asked  if  the  mother  of  the  crucified  Rabbi  and  one or 
two other members of his family might go to him on the cross. The centurion told her to wait a few 
minutes and he walked over to where  Kaiaphas and the five Sanhedrin Judges stood and raising his 
voice almost to a shout he said, ‘Aren't you satisfied yet? Go from here now, all of you!’ And roughly 
he sent them away. 
The   centurion   and   Veronica   took   Maria,   mother   of   Joshua,   Myriam   Shalome,   Maria 
Magdalena, and Yiohannan to Joshua, who looked upon them with great love. To his mother and to 
Yiohannan he said in Greek  
 
Mother, he is now your son. 
 
To Yiohannan he said 
 
Yiohannan, she is now your mother. 
 
Yiohannan then embraced both Maria and his mother, showing his Beloved One that from that 
moment Maria would be as a mother to him. 
The God-man smiled on Veronica and Maria Magdalena and then he sighed, and for the second 
time the earth shook and the sun grew faint like a candle going out. 
Joshua cried out with a loud voice and said in Greek: 
 
 
 
My Father, the work which you have given me to do, I have accomplished. 
My Father, to you I commend my Spirit. It is all finished. 
 
and the Son of Man, the God-man Joshua breathed his last breath. 

210 
 
 
The centurion standing near the cross, murmured to Veronica, ‘Vere Filius Dei erat iste’ (Truly 
this was the Son of God). 
For three hours the Earth was plunged in darkness, and it shook as though its heart would break. 
Lightening streaked across the blackened sky and waves of thunder rolled and crashed. Was this an 
expression  of  the  indignation  of  the  Archangels,  the  Lords  of  the  Elements?  In  terror  the  crowd 
dispersed and fled. Yiohannan took the women to Hannah Maria’s home. 
Veronica and the centurion were left by the cross with a few spearbearers. They were soaked to 
the bone and trembled with cold and grief. Veronica wept openly and, with the centurion at her side, 
knelt at the foot of the cross. The centurion said again in Latin, ‘Vere Filius Dei erat iste’ (Truly this 
was the Son of God). 
And so they joined hearts with the companion-disciples, the ‘Apostoli’, as the first Christians—
two Romans at the feet of the Crucified Mshiha. 
 
 
 
 
 
  

211 
 
CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX  After the Crucifixion 
[JOSHUA IS LAID IN A TOMB. THE GOD-MAN RESURRECTS HIS BODY. YIASSOUNAI PASSES OVER. 
JOSHUA APPEARS TO THE RAYIS RABBI EPHRAIM AND TO SIMON. 
HE THEN APPEARS AND BAPTIZES IN K’FAR NAHUM. 
HE SHOWS THOMAS HIS WOUNDS AND INSTRUCTS HIS DISCIPLES.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As the day of the crucifixion of Joshua was the day of preparation for the Feast of the Passover, 
Kaiaphas asked permission of the Roman Governor to have the legs of the criminals broken that they 
might be taken down from their crosses before the sun set and the Sabbath began. 
A Sanhedrin executioner saw to the task and drove his spear into the dead body of Joshua under 
his ribs, entering deep into the liver. Water and blood flowed from the wound. Then the executioners 
removed the dead bodies of the felons, leaving Joshua’s body on the cross. 
The  trial  and  conviction  took  place  the  night  of  the  arrest.  The  execution  was  carried  out the 
following morning. There was no time for any Israelite followers of Joshua to intervene and perhaps 
save him. That most heinous crime was committed so quickly. 
It  was  not  uncommon  for  the  Sanhedrin  to  accuse  wealthy  Israelites  of  blasphemy  and  to 
condemn them to death by stoning, confiscating their property according to Mosaic Law. Therefore, 
many  wealthy  Israelites  had  accepted  Roman  citizenship.  As  Roman  citizens,  they could  have  their 
own sword-bearers as bodyguards and they could unmask and denounce members of the Sanhedrin as 
hypocrites and scoundrels. 
Late  on  the  day  of  the  crucifixion  a  wealthy  Israelite  and  Roman  citizen,  Yioussouf  of 
Arimathaea, and a wealthy Greco-Israelite, also a Roman citizen, Nikodemus, who were followers of 
the God-man, having often heard him teach, came to the Palace of their friend, the Roman Governor. 
Yioussouf  could  barely  conceal  his  fury  and  his  grief  as  he  said  to  the  Governor, ‘Your 
Excellency, today a terrible crime was committed by the Sanhedrin. Was there nothing you could do 
to prevent it?’ 
The  Governor  replied, ‘Yioussouf,  my  dear  friend,  I  did  all  I  could  to  save  the  Essene  Rabbi. 
They sentenced him to death and came to me for my approval of the execution. The Essene, who was 
not a Roman citizen, was therefore under the jurisdiction of Herod and to Herod I sent him. 
To  the  very  last  moment,  I  did  my  best  to  save  him.  I  told  the  screaming  mob  that  he  was 
innocent and before them I washed my hands of his innocent blood. What more would you have me 
do? Claudia and Veronica are inconsolable and the centurion said to Veronica and has since said to 
me, “Vere hic homo Filius Dei erat” (Truly this man was the Son of God). 
‘Dear  Yioussouf’,  said  the  Governor,  shaking  his  head  to  clear  it. ‘Have  you  ever  heard  of an 
earthquake  in  Palestine?  And  yet  today  the  ground  trembled  and  shuddered  as  if  in  a  rage and  our 
land was shrouded in darkness for three hours. That was no eclipse of the sun. That was no passing 
thunderstorm.’ 

212 
 
‘Your Excellency,’ Yioussouf said, trying to master strong emotion, ‘we have come to request 
the body of the dead Essene Rabbi, that we may take it down from the cross and lay it in a tomb on 
my property.’ 
The Roman Governor said quickly, ‘Of course, my dear Yioussouf. Take the centurion and as 
many soldiers as you need. Veronica knows where his family is staying. She will take you to them. I 
have left ten spear-bearers on the hill to guard the corpse. You must believe me, my friend, what has 
happened  today  has  brought  me  nothing  but  grief.  Claudia  won’t  speak  to  me. Lucius  is  plainly 
disgusted with me and he weeps with Claudia and Veronica.’ He banged his fist on the table, ‘Why 
are these Essenes so stubborn and so stupid? Why do they refuse to accept Roman citizenship, which 
I have offered them repeatedly, for their own safety?’ 
These  last  words  revealed  much  of  what  had  been  on  the  Governor’s mind.  While  many 
Israelites  and  the  Samaritans  had  accepted  Roman  citizenship,  the one  third  of  the  population that 
was  Essene,  refused  it.  It  was  Pontius  Pilatus’ intention  to  force  the  Essenes  to  accept  his offer, 
thereby undermining the authority of Herod so gravely that Palestine might be annexed to the Roman 
Empire. 
Pontius  Pilatus  concluded  the  conversation,  saying, ‘My  dear  Yioussouf,  these  criminals and 
fanatics are overtaxing my patience.’ 
While  the  centurion  returned  to  Calvary  with  twenty  sword-bearers  to  await  Yioussouf, 
Yioussouf  went  with  Nikodemus  and  Veronica  to  the  house  of  Hannah  Maria  where  Maria,  the 
mother of Joshua, waited with Myriam Shalome, Maria Magdalena, Aethra and Naomi. 
The  two  men  and  the  Essene  women  returned  to  Calvary  accompanied  by  Yiohannan  and the 
two Yiacoubs and by five sword-bearers from the household of Yioussouf. They carried clay jars of 
rose water and fragrant oils. 
Yiohannan, the Yiacoubs, and Yioussouf with the help of the soldiers gently took the body of 
Joshua  down  from  the  cross.  With  linen  cloths,  soft  and  clean,  dipped  in  rose  water,  the women 
washed  the  blood  from  the  knees  and  from  the  shoulders  and  from  wherever  it  stained the  flesh  of 
their Beloved One. Yiohannan said to the women, ‘We have cleaned the body of our Most  Beloved 
One. It is now ready to be healed by him, to be resurrected and used again by him, and on the third 
day he will come to us in his resurrected body.’ 
They wrapped the body in a sheet of white linen, except for the feet, and the men placed it on a 
wooden stretcher. Now Maria, the mother of Joshua, kissed her son’s feet; Myriam Shalome did the 
same. Then Yiohannan caressed them with his lips, and the other women followed in turn. 
The  centurion  kneeling  touched  his  forehead  to  the  God-man’s feet  repeating, ‘Vere, vere  hic 
homo  Filius  Dei  erat.’ The  sword-bearers  in  the  service  of  Yioussouf  of  Arimathaea, who  were  all 
Israelites and citizens of Rome, with Yioussouf and Nikodemus bore the stretcher down the hill to the 
nearby cave which stood in a little grove of olives in a garden belonging to Yioussouf. 
They  placed  the  body  on  a  flat  rock  about  three  feet  high  and  poured  the  sweet  oils  over the 
shroud.  It  took  all  the  strength  of  the  soldiers  to  roll  a  huge  rock  across  the  entrance,  closing  the 
tomb. 
Kaiaphas  and  the  five  Judges  of  the  Sanhedrin had  returned  to  the  Roman  Governor  with 
another request. 
On  the  next  day,  which  followed  the  Day  of  Preparation,  the  Rayis  Rabbis  and  Pharisees 
gathered together to Pilatus saying, Your Excellency, we remember that while the Essene Rabbi was 
still  living, that  deceiver  said, “After  three  days  I  will  rise,” Therefore,  we  ask  your  Excellency to 
command  that  the  tomb  be  made  secure  until  the  third  day,  lest  his  disciples  should  come  by night 
and steal his body away, and say to the people, “He has risen from the dead.” So the last deception 
will  be  worse  than  the  first.  The  Roman  Governor,  Pilatus,  said  to  them: ‘You  have  a guard  of 

213 
 
Israelites  of  Herod,  go,  and  make  the  tomb  secure  as  you  know  how.’ So  they  went  and made  the 
tomb secure, sealing the stone and setting the guard, (cf. Matthew 27:62-66) 
After sunset Yiacoub the son of Shabbatai took Aethra and Naomi home in the cart of his uncle 
Aaron. Leaving them at their gate, he returned to Aaron’s house. 
When  earlier  that  day  Ivikos  had  been  unable  to  find  his wife  and  sister,  he  guessed  that they 
had  gone  to  Calvary  with  Maria,  the  mother  of  Joshua,  and  he  followed  them.  There  he found 
Joshua’s body,  his  Spirit  departed,  nailed  to  the  cross.  The  women  had  gone,  but  one  of Joshua’s 
Essene  followers  told  Ivikos  that  near  the  Pretorium  he  had  seen  his  brother, Aristarkhos,  with  two 
Greek friends, crying, just for fun, ‘Crucify him, Crucify him!’ and rejoicing in the sight of his body 
nailed to the cross. ‘Beasts!’ roared Ivikos in Greek. 
Yiassounai on the sheaves of flax heard the return of his mother and Naomi, and though he tried 
to call out to them, he was unable to make a sound. 
When Ivikos came home, he sighed with relief to see Aethra and Naomi safe and well. But the 
relief  was  short-lived. ‘Aethra,’ he  said, ‘Yiassounai  was  with  you  in  the  house  of  Hannah Maria. 
Where is he now?’ 
With a terrible struggle, Yiassounai cried out for his father. Seeing his son stretched out on the 
flax,  his  robe  torn  and  bloodied  and  his  foot  mangled,  Ivikos  said  in  Greek, ‘Who  has done  this  to 
you, my love?’ Very gently he lifted the boy to a couch, asking Aethra and Naomi to warm some red 
wine in a large clay vessel and bring it with some clean, soft pieces of cloth. Tenderly Ivikos washed 
the broken toes with the warm wine, poured warm fish oil over them and wrapped the foot in clean 
linen.  
At  that  moment  Aristarkhos  came  in  with  his  friends  Ermis  and  Aris,  all  drunk and  singing at 
the  top  of  their  lungs.  Ivikos  could  control  himself  no  longer. ‘Wild  beasts,’ he  shouted  at them, 
‘devils, rogues, get out of my house!’ He gave his brother a violent shove saying, ‘Go and live with 
these other beasts! And never return to this house again.’ The three Greeks left and before they were 
out of the yard, they were singing again as if nothing had happened. 
‘Father,’ Yiassounai said in a voice faint and trembling, ‘you  should not send my  uncle away. 
He is your brother. Joshua forgave even those who crucified him.’ 
‘My angel,’ said Ivikos, kissing his son, ‘I should have done it long ago. He should live among 
the Greeks and earn his own living. Your mother and Naomi have suffered much from his hand and 
his tongue, though they never complained. Be at peace now, my love.’ 
The  next  day  Yiohannan  and  Yiacoub  visited  Aethra  and  Naomi  to  warn  them  to  stay  away 
from  the  tomb  that  the  Sanhedrin  had  now  sealed. ‘Yiohannan,’ said  Yiassounai, ‘I  saw  it  all.  I left 
my  body  here  and  went  to  Calvary.  I  saw  you  kiss  his  feet,  which  I  kissed  too,  but  not  with my 
material lips. I know that tomorrow Joshua will heal and resurrect his body.’ 
Yiohannan  embraced  him  gently,  kissing  his  eyes.  Yiassounai  was  feverish  and  his  neck  had 
stiffened  so  he  could  not  move  his  head. ‘Beloved  one,’ Yiohannan  whispered, ‘tomorrow  he  will 
come  to  you,  and  we  will  be  with  you  always.  But  after  tomorrow,  you  must  sleep.  You  will  enter 
into  a  very  deep,  blissful,  dreamless  sleep  in  the  One-ness  of  your  Most  Beloved  One.  This  is what 
you  need  and  this  is  his  Will.  When  you  wake,  strong  in  Soul  and  in  Spirit,  you  will  shoulder  your 
cross and follow him.’ 
 
THE RESURRECTION 
At  dawn  on  the  day  after  the  Sabbath,  Maria, mother  of  Joshua,  with  Maria  Magdalena  went to  the 
garden of the tomb and stood at some distance where they could clearly  see it. Maria the mother of 
the God-man knew what must happen for now it was the third day. 
After the  Sabbath,  the  first  day  of the  week  at  dawn,  Maria  Magdalena  and  Maria,  Mother of 
Joshua,  came  to  see  the  tomb.  A  great  earthquake  began  to  shake  the  earth,  because  an  Angel of 
Alaha  descended  from  Heaven, and  came  and  rolled  the  heavy  stone  away  from  the  opening  of the 

214 
 
cave tomb and sat on it. His countenance was like lightning, and his clothing was as white as snow. 
And the guards shook for fear of him, and became like dead men. The Angel said to the women, ‘Do 
not be afraid, I know that you seek Joshua who was crucified. He is not here now. He is risen, as he 
said  to  you.  Come,  see  the  place  where  the  Mshiha  lay.  Go  quickly  and  tell  his  disciples  that  he  is 
risen  from  the  dead,  and  he  is  going  before  you  into  Galilee;  there  they  will see him.  Hear  what  I 
have told you.’ They departed quickly from the tomb with great jay, and ran to bring the news to the 
disciples. And as they went to tell the news to the disciples, Joshua met them, saying: ‘Rejoice!’ And 
they came near him, knelt and held him by the feet and worshipped him. Then Joshua said to them, 
‘Do  not  be  afraid  of  anyone.  Go  and  tell  my  brethren  to  go  to  Galilee, and  there  they  will  see  me 
also.’ While the women were going away, some of the guards had gone into the city and reported to 
the  Rayis  Rabbis  all  that  had  happened.  The  Rayis  Rabbis  had  assembled  with  the  Elders  and  had 
taken  counsel;  they  gave  much  money  to  the  sword-bearers  to  keep silent.  They  instructed  them  to 
say, ‘His disciples came at night and stole the body while we were sleeping.’ And if this comes to the 
Governor’s ears, we will appease him and make you secure. And the guards took the money and did 
as they had been instructed. (Matthew 28:1-15) 
Leaving the garden with Maria, mother of Joshua, Maria Magdalena spread the news, Yiacoub, 
son  of  Yioussouf,  passing  the  house  of  Ivikos  in  Aaron’s cart,  told  Aethra  and  Naomi what  had 
happened.  Ivikos  had  gone  to  fetch  milk  for  Yiassounai  and  when  he  saw  the  women’s faces,  he 
knew  something  had  happened. ‘Viko,’ said  Aethra  excitedly  from  where  she  sat  at Yiassounai’s 
bedside, ‘Joshua  has  resurrected  his  body.  Maria  Magdalena  has  seen  him,  has embraced  his  feet 
and...’ 
But Ivikos interrupted her gently. ‘My dear,’ he said, ‘I have seen with my own eyes the body 
on  the  cross,  dead  and  mutilated.  You  know  how  much  Maria  Magdalena  loved  him.  Poor woman, 
she’s hallucinating.’ 
‘Viko,’ Aethra insisted, ‘Joshua has healed and resurrected his body just as he promised.’ 
Yiassounai, who was looking at the white wall before him, saw a bright light the size and form 
of a human body pass through it, filling the room with its brilliance as it came to the couch where he 
lay. 
Ivikos,  Aethra and Naomi all beheld Joshua in the room, semi-materialized, with the marks of 
the  nails  on  his  palms. ‘Aba,’ said  Yiassounai, ‘it  is  Joshua.  Joshua  is  the Mshiha.  He  is  the Beni 
Alaha.’ 
They  fell  to  their  knees  and  Ivikos  cried  out, ‘Joshua, Mshiha, Beni  Alaha,  forgive  me.  I 
believe, Beni Alaha, I believe.’ 
Aethra, her heart overflowing said, ‘Beloved Joshua, we never had the smallest doubt. You are 
the Son of Alaha. This is a day of triumphant joy, Mshiha, Beni Alaha!’ 
Joshua  smiling,  reached  out to  Yiassounai,  and  at that instant  Aethra  understood. She grasped 
the feet of Joshua crying, ‘Mshiha, no! No! Do not take Yiassounai from us.’ 
Yiassounai,  looking  with  great  love  upon  his  father,  his  mother,  and  Naomi,  left  his  material 
body as if it were of no more use to him now than a torn robe. In his Soul body he knelt at the feet of 
his Most Beloved One, Joshua, the Son of Man, and tenderly he kissed the God-man’s feet. 
With  his  love  Joshua  embraced  the  Soul  body  of  Yiassounai  and  kissing  him,  put  him  into a 
deep, deep dreamless and most blissful sleep. The Son of Man, the God-man Joshua took Yiassounai 
to  his  Kingdom  of  rest,  leaving  Ivikos,  Aethra and  Naomi to  weep  over  Yiassounai’s dead  material 
body.  Minutes  later  the  God-man  materialized  his  resurrected  body  in  the  room of  Rayis  Rabbi 
Ephraim, where the old man sat on his bed in confusion and deep despair. 
Seeing the God-man he supposed he must be dreaming, shaking his head and rubbing his eyes. 
‘Beloved Rayis Rabbi, Shlam Ruha (Peace to your Spirit). Why did you doubt me? Why did you not 
believe what I told you in this very room four days ago? Here, look at my hands.  

215 
 
See  the  wounds.  And  look  at my  feet.  And  here  under my  ribs,  see  where  the  Roman  spear pierced 
my flesh. Beloved Ephraim, even now in his room, Simon the Canaanite, lies sobbing his heart out. 
Go to him. Tell him I have resurrected my material body. Now I go to my Father Alaha, who is also 
your  Father,  to  my Alaha and  your Alaha.  I  will  come  to  you  again  very  soon.’ And  Joshua 
dematerialized his body. 
The Rayis Rabbi, his head spinning with the wonder of it all, hurried to Simon’s room crying, 
‘Simon, Simon, weep no more. Two minutes ago Joshua was standing in my room in his resurrected 
body. He showed me the wounds on his limbs and in his side. He knew of your suffering and he told 
me to come to you and tell you the good news.’ 
Simon,  wiping  the  still  flowing  tears  on his  sleeve,  said, ‘Reverend  Rayis  Rabbi,  I  cannot see 
Joshua, but I can feel him here.’ 
Ephraim went to the temple for the morning service and Simon went to the tomb. On the way 
he  met  Petros,  who  unable  to  believe  what  Maria  Magdalena  had  told  him,  was  going  to see  for 
himself. Simon saluted Petros saying, ‘Shlam aleyhem,’ and ran heading for the tomb. 
On the first day of the week Maria Magdalena came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, 
and saw that the stone had been taken away from the opening of the tomb. Then she ran and came to 
Petros,  and  to  the  other  disciple,  whom  Joshua  loved,  and  said  to  them, ‘They  have taken  away 
Joshua  out  of  the  tomb,  and  we  do  not  know where  they  have  laid  him.’ Petros  went out,  and  the 
other disciple, and came to the tomb. So both ran together, and the other disciple outran Petros and 
came  to  the  tomb  first.  And  stooping  down  and  looking  in  the  tomb,  he  saw the  linen  cloths  lying 
there, yet  he  did  not  go in.  Then  Petros  came  following  him,  and  both went  into  the  tomb,  and  they 
saw the linen cloths lying there. And the cloth that had been around Joshua’s head was not lying with 
the other linen cloths, but folded, was near there. (John 20:1-7)  
Simon ran back to his room and closed the door behind him, weeping and was about to throw 
himself to his bed and cry his heart out when Joshua materialized his resurrected body before him and 
embracing and kissing the boy, said, ‘Beloved Simon, look at my hands and my feet. Here, put your 
finger  in  the  hole  in  my  side.  Do  you  still  remember  the  day  I  met  you  in the  temple  in  Magdala. 
Your  foot  was  deformed and  I  healed  it  then.  Just  so  have  I  healed  all the  wounds  my  executioners 
inflicted upon my material body. Look at me, Simon. I am healthy and strong. The arms that embrace 
you and the lips that kiss you, are without bruise or blemish. Come, child, no more tears. Let me see 
you smile.’ 
When Simon was calmer, Joshua continued. ‘Simon, take out of your mind all thoughts of my 
body wounded and broken and nailed to the cross; just as if that were all a bad dream. See me as you 
see me now. I will explain more to you and to the others later. But now you must listen to me. Very 
soon you will be the Rayis Rabbi of the new religious Order devoted to the true worship of Alaha in 
Antioch  of  Galatia.  You  will  preach  the  word  of Alaha and  you  will  baptize  Essenes,  Israelites, 
Greeks, Romans, and many others in the name of Marya Alaha, the Lord God; in the name of Alaha 
Bra, God the Son, in my name; and in the name of Alaha Ruha d’Kudsha, God the Holy Spirit. You 
will have in you the power to heal and to forgive sins. 
‘Simon,  all  of  you  must  gather  together  in  Yerushalayim.’ And  so  saying  and  kissing  Simon 
again, Joshua  dematerialized  his  resurrected  body.  Simon  ran  breathless  to  the  room  of  the Rayis 
Rabbi to tell him what had happened. 
After lunch that same day, Ephraim, Simon, and Stephanos went to the house of Ivikos, where 
they found Ivikos, Aethra, and Naomi weeping over the dead body of Yiassounai. 
Stephanos unable to contain his tears embraced the body of his beloved friend, kissing the eyes 
that death had closed. Ephraim and Simon told the bereaved family that they had seen and spoken to 
the Mshiha in his resurrected body. And Ivikos, Aethra, and Naomi in turn told them that Joshua had 
materialized his body in this very room. 

216 
 
That afternoon, according to the rites of Essene custom, Ephraim with the others took the body 
of  Yiassounai  to  the  temple,  where  they  offered  prayers  to Alaha for  the  Soul  of  their beloved 
Yiassounai. And then they buried the body in the Essene cemetery next to the temple, in the gardens, 
so fragrant and colorful, which Yiassounai had lovingly tended. 
The  next  day  as  two  Essene  disciple-healers  were  walking  through  a  forest,  on  the  road  to 
Emmaus from a village nearby, Joshua appeared before them. 
Two of Joshua’s disciple-healers were traveling that day to a village called Emmaus which was 
about seven miles away from Yerushalayim. And they talked of all those things which had taken place 
in  Yerushalayim.  While  they  were  talking  and  reasoning,  Joshua  approached  and went  with  them. 
The eyes of the disciple-healers were restrained and they did not recognize him. Joshua said to them: 
‘What  are  you  talking  about  going  together  and  you  are  so  sad?’ The  one called  Cleopas  said  to 
Joshua: ‘Are you a stranger in Yerushalayim and you do not know what happened during these days 
there?’ And  Joshua  said  to  them: ‘What things?’ And they  said  to  him, ‘The  things  concerning 
Joshua  of  Nazareth,  who  was  a  prophet,  mighty  in  deed  and  in  preaching the  word  of  Alaha  to  the 
people. And the Israelite Rayis Rabbis and the Elders condemned him to death and delivered him to 
the  executioners  who  crucified  him.  We  were  cherishing  the  hope that  it  was  he  who  was  going  to 
redeem  Israel.  Today  is  the  third  day  since  all those  things  had taken  place.  Certain  women  of  our 
company  who  visited  the  tomb  early  this morning,  said  things which  astonished  us.  When  they  said 
they did not find the body of Joshua in the tomb, they said that they had seen a vision of Angels who 
said to them that Joshua was alive. And certain of those who were with us went also to the tomb and 
found  it  just  as  the  women  had  said,  but they  did not  see him.’ Then  Joshua  said  to  them: ‘Foolish 
ones, and very slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets had spoken. Ought not the Mshiha to 
suffer these things and to enter into his glory?’ And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, Joshua 
expounded to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself. When they drew near Emmaus 
where they were going Joshua told them that he would go farther. But they constrained him, saying 
to him, ‘Abide with us for it is towards evening and the day is far spent.’ And Joshua, smiling, went in 
the house to stay with them. But as they sat at the table, Joshua took bread, blessed and broke it, and 
gave  it  to  them. Then  their  eyes  were  opened  and  they  recognized  him;  and  he  vanished  from  their 
sight. And they said to one another, ‘Did not our heart burn within us while he opened the Scriptures 
to  us?’ So they  rose  up  that  very  hour  and  returned  to  Yerushalayim  and  found  the  eleven 
companion-disciples and those who were with them gathered together, saying, ‘The Mshiha is risen 
and  has appeared  also  to  Simon  the  Canaanite.’ And  they  told  the  disciples  the  things  that  had 
happened on  the  road  to Emmaus,  and  how  Joshua  made  himself  known  to  them  in  the  breaking  of 
bread. As the two disciple-healers were saying these things, Joshua himself stood in the midst of them 
and  said  to  them, ‘shalama.’ All  were  terrified  except  Maria,  Joshua’s mother,  and  Yiohannan.  All 
the  others,  frightened,  supposed  they  were  seeing  a  Spirit.  And  Joshua  said  to  them: ‘Why  are  you 
troubled?  And why  do  you  allow  doubts  to  arise  in  your  hearts?  See  my  hands  and  my  feet.  It  is I, 
myself.  Touch  me  to  make  sure  that  I  am  not  a  ghost.  A  ghost  has  no  flesh  and  bones  as  you  see I 
have.’ When  Joshua  was  saying  this,  he  was  showing  them  his  hands,  his  feet and  the  hole  of the 
healed wound under his ribs. But some of them did not believe it was he yet, and Joshua said to them: 
‘Rejoice,  it  is  I,  myself.  Have  you  any  food  here?  The  ghosts  are  not  eating.’ So  they brought  to 
Joshua  a  piece  of  broiled  fish  and some  honeycomb.  And  Joshua  took  them  and  ate them  in  their 
presence. Then Joshua said to them, ‘These are the words I had spoken to you while I was still with 
you,  that  all  these  things  should  be  fulfilled  which  are  written  in  the  Law  of Moses  and  of  the 
Prophets and in the Psalms concerning me.’ And Joshua made them understand what was written in 
the Scriptures. Then Joshua said to them: ‘Thus it is written and thus it was necessary for the Mshiha 
to  suffer  and  to  rise,  to  resurrect  his  body  from  death  on the  third  day, and  that  repentance  and 
remission of sins should be preached in his name to all the nations,  beginning at Yerushalayim. And 

217 
 
you are the witnesses of all these things. Behold! I send the promise of my Father upon you; but tarry 
in Yerushalayim until you are endued with power from Alaha: (cf. Luke 24:13-49) 
On  the  fourth  day  after  the  resurrection,  an  Essene  tailor  returned  to K’far  Nahum  from 
Yerushalayim saying that he had been with the crowd on Calvary and had seen Joshua’s dead body 
nailed to the cross. He reported excitedly that he had heard that Maria Magdalena and others had seen 
Joshua  and  he  had  spoken  to  them.  The  tailor  with  some  other  Essenes  went in  haste  to  the  Rayis 
Rabbi Samuel and told him all he had seen and heard. 
On the fifth day an hour before sunrise while Is-shaak barefoot was scrubbing the temple floor, 
a  brilliant  light  filled  the  room  and  in  the  light  appeared  Joshua.  The  God-man  caressed Is-shaak’s 
head in his familiar way and without moving the curtain, entered the Holy of Holies. 
Is-shaak ran as fast as his legs would carry him to the bedroom of Rayis Rabbi Samuel and told 
him breathlessly what he had seen: the light, the form of Joshua, his hand with the marks of the nails 
caressing his head. ‘He has come!'’ cried Is-shaak. ‘He has come to us! Right this very moment the 
Mshiha is in the Holy of Holies!’ 
Still  in  his  nightgown  Samuel  ran  to  the  temple  with  Is-shaak.  The  temple  was  filled  with a 
strong, emerald-green light. 
The Rayis Rabbi lifted the heavy curtain and there stood Joshua on the third step in front of the 
altar, his arms stretched upward, saying in Greek 
 
For yours is the Kingdom and the Power and 
the Glory, forever. 
 
 
 
The Rayis Rabbi knelt at the feet of the Mshiha. Is-shaak with his brother Manasseh, who had 
come  to  the  temple  while  Is-shaak  was  gone,  knelt  by  the  curtain  with  their  foreheads touching  the 
floor. 
Joshua  embraced  Samuel and  kissed  him.  Then  he  called the  novices  into  the  Holy  of Holies, 
embracing them and kissing them again and again on their eyes. Then he said to them, ‘Come, let us 
go to breakfast.’ 
In the dining room Joshua showed them the marks of the nails and of the spear in his side. The 
God-man ate bread and cheese and drank from a bowl of warm milk to show them that his body was 
material and had been resurrected from death. Among the many Essenes who saw him in the See that 
morning  were  some  of  his  disciple-healers.  To  them  and  to  the  Rayis  Rabbi, Joshua  said, ‘Beloved 
ones, all of you, you know that the word “Mshiha” means in Greek  
 
Christ. 
 
The new religious Order worshipping Alaha will be called 
 
Christianity 
 
and you, my followers, will be called 
 
Christians. 
 
The foundation of the new religious Order will be Love: Love for Alaha and Love for mankind.’ 

218 
 
 
You shall love the Lord your God with all 
your heart, with all your Soul, and with all 
your Mind, and you shall love your fellow 
men as your own self, (cf. Matthew 22:37,39) 
 
 
Is-shaak,  at  his  request,  brought Joshua  a  wooden  basin  of  water. Joshua  put  his right hand  in 
the basin and touching the forehead of the Rayis Rabbi, he said,  
 
 
 
In the name of the Father and in the name of the Son, and in the name of the Holy Spirit. 
 
Having  baptized  with  water  the  novices,  Is-shaak  and  Manasseh,  he  put  both  hands on  the 
shoulders of the Rayis Rabbi and breathing on his face said, ‘I baptize you in Fire and in Spirit.’ 
He repeated the ceremony with Is-shaak and Manasseh. Then he said to Samuel, ‘All authority 
has been given to me by Alaha in  Heaven and on Earth. Beloved Rayis Rabbi, what I have done to 
you, you also will do to others. Baptize Essenes, Israelites, Greeks, Romans, and others in the name 
of Alaha the Father, in the name of the Son, my name, and in the name of the Holy Spirit.  
‘Petros will be the head of the new religious Order, Christianity. In these times and under these 
conditions  he  is  the  one  best  suited  to  undertake  this  heavy  task.  Each  of  my  disciples, my 
companions and my disciple-healers, will do his duty to Alaha and to Man as Alaha inspires him.  
‘I will return to you, but now I must be in Yerushalayim with the eleven companion-disciples of 
mine to give them more instructions. In about two months they will return to K’far Nahum with my 
mother  and  Maria  Magdalena. Myriam  Shalome  and  Shabbatai  will  be  coming home  in  about  two 
weeks.’ 
Having  embraced  and  kissed  Samuel,  Is-shaak,  Manasseh  and  more  than  fifteen  Essene 
disciple-healers saying ‘Shlama’ to each, he dematerialized his resurrected body. 
A  week  after  the  resurrection  the  eleven  companion-disciples  with  four  disciple-healers met 
again in the large, upper room where Joshua had taken his last supper and where he had already once 
materialized  his  resurrected  body  in  the  presence  of  his  mother,  Shabbatai,  Aaron, Hannah  Maria, 
Maria Magdalena, and Myriam Shalome. 
Thomas,  who  had  not  been  present  the  first  time  Joshua  had  manifested  his  resurrected body, 
was arguing with the others, expressing his doubts. Simon the Canaanite said to him, ‘Dear Thomas, 
the Mshiha materialized  his  resurrected  body  in  my  room  in  the  See.  He  embraced and  kissed  me. 
Before  he  came  to  me,  he  visited  the  Rayis  Rabbi  Ephraim.  Are  all  of  us  liars then,  or  fools,  or 
dreamers, Thomas? Joshua was as substantial, as solid as you are.’ 
  

219 
 
Thomas replied, ‘Simon my dear, I never meant to call any of  you “liars”. But isn't it possible 
that your love for Joshua could create hallucinations and delusions in your minds? Simon, I saw with 
my  own  eyes  Joshua’s body  brutally,  grievously  wounded,  nailed  to  a  cross.  Do  you ask  me  to 
believe  what is  patently  impossible?  I  shall  never  believe  that Joshua  still  lives  until I  feel  with  my 
own fingers the wounds in his hands and feet and in his side. It’s Maria Magdalena’s hysteria that has 
you all believing you've seen Joshua.’ 
At  that  moment  Joshua  materialized  his  resurrected  body  and  appearing  in  the  midst  of his 
companion disciples, he stood before Thomas. 
Thomas,  called  Didymus,  one  of  the  twelve  companion-disciples,  was  not  with  the  other 
disciples when Joshua came to them. The other disciples said to Thomas: ‘We have seen the Mshiha.’ 
But  Thomas  said  to  them, ‘Unless  I  see  on  Joshua’s hands,  the  print  of the  nails  and put  my  finger 
into the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe.’ And after eight days, the 
disciples were again inside, and Thomas was also with them. Joshua came, the door being shut, and 
stood in the midst, and said, ‘shlama.’ Then Joshua said to Thomas: ‘Put your finger here and look 
at  my  hands;  and  put  your  hand  here  and  put  it  into  the  hole  in my  side.  Thomas  do  not  be 
unbelieving, but believing.’ And Thomas answered and said to Joshua, ‘My Mshiha and my Alaha.’ 
Joshua said to Thomas: ‘Thomas, because you have touched me and because you have seen me, you 
believe in me now? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.’ And truly Joshua did 
many  other  signs  in  the  presence  of  his  disciples, which  are  not  written  in  this  book;  but  what  is 
written is that you may believe that Joshua is the Mshiha, the Son of Alaha, and believing in him, you 
may have life in his name. (John 20:24-31) 
On all of the fifty days after the resurrection the God-man appeared to his disciples and others 
in  Yerushalayim,  in K’far  Nahum  and  elsewhere.  Many  times  daily  he  gave  instructions and 
commandments to his followers, establishing his new religious Order, Christianity, that men might be 
led to worship and truly love Alaha, the Heavenly Father, and to love their brothers, all the offspring 
of Alaha, all human beings on Earth. 
This  Joshua  said  to  his  disciples: ‘Go  into  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  of  Truth  to every 
human being. Baptize those who believe, in the name of the Heavenly Father Alaha, in my name, the 
name of the Son, and in the name of the Holy Spirit.’ 
 

220 
 
Joshua  said  to  his  disciples, ‘All  authority  has  been  given  to  me  in  the  Heaven  and  on  Earth.  Go 
therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father Alaha, in the 
name of the Son of Alaha and in the name of the Holy Spirit.’ (Matthew 28:18—19)  
And he repeated in Latin: Data est mihi omnis potestas in caelo et in terra; euntes ergo docete 
omnes  gentes,  baptizantes  eos  in  nomine  Patris,  et  Filii  et  Spiritus  sancti.  (Evangelium secundum 
Mattheum XXVIII: 18-19) 
 
Many Essenes,  Israelites,  and  others  had  seen  Joshua  walking  with  his  eleven  companion-
disciples and some of his disciple-healers from Yerushalayim to Bethany. 
And  Joshua  led  his  disciples  out  as  far  as  Bethania  and  Joshua  lifted  his  hands  and  blessed 
them. While the God-man was blessing them, he was parted from them and lifted into Heaven. 
(cf. Luke 24:50-51) 
When  Joshua  had  blessed  his  disciples,  he  dematerialized  his  resurrected  material  body and 
ascended to the Heavens. Joyously, his followers returned to Yerushalayim. His disciples spent some 
days there in the See with Rayis Rabbi Ephraim before departing for K’far Nahum. 
And  the  disciples  worshipped  Joshua  and  returned  to  Yerushalayim  with  great  joy.  And  the 
disciples were continually in the temple of the Essene See, praising, blessing and worshipping Alaha 
and the Mshiha Joshua, (cf. Luke 24:52-53)  
While in Yerushalayim, Petros baptized in the Essene temple the ten companion-disciples, and 
Stephanos  as  the  eleventh.  Maria  Magdalena,  Hannah  Maria,  Aaron,  and  Veronica  had  also been 
baptized by Petros. 
Then  Petros  with  Maria,  mother  of  Joshua,  Maria  Magdalena,  and  ten  of  the  companion-
disciples returned to K’far Nahum.  
There  Rayis  Rabbi  Samuel  informed  Petros  that  Joshua  had  baptized  him,  Is-shaak,  and 
Manasseh. Though the brother novices were still very young, hardly more than boys, Petros ordained 
them  in  the  Christian  Ministry  as  Rabbis  with  the  authority  to  conduct  services  in  the temple,  to 
preach, baptize and heal. 
Hundreds  of  Essenes  in K’far  Nahum,  Bethsaida,  Magdala,  and  in  other  towns  and  cities in 
Galilee  were  baptized  by  the  disciples  and  in  Yerushalayim,  Jerikho,  and  Bethania  many  more 
Essenes and Israelites were baptized by Rayis Rabbi Ephraim and Stephanos. 
Maria  stayed  for  some  time  in K’far  Nahum  with  Maria  Magdalena  by  her  side,  working as  a 
White Dove of the Heavens to care for and comfort the ill and the aged. 
Petros,  Andreas,  and  Shabbatai  took  up  their  lives  again  as  fishermen.  Petros  neglected the 
duties entrusted to him by Joshua and often complained to the others that Joshua was  gone and had 
forgotten them. 
Some  time  after  his  Ascension,  Joshua  showed  himself  again,  materializing  his  body,  to  his 
disciples  at  the  Sea  of  Tiberias.  Petros  and  Thomas,  Nathanael  of  Cana  in  Galilee,  the  sons of 
Shabbatai,  Yiacoub  and  Yiohannan,  Andreas  and  Philippos  and  Mattai  were  on  the  fishing  boat of 
Petros. Petros said to them, ‘I am going fishing.’ They said to Petros, ‘We are going with you also.’ 
And  they  got into the  fishing  ship  and  that  night  they caught  nothing.  When  the  morning  had come, 
Joshua stood on the shore; yet the disciples did not know that it was Joshua. Joshua shouted to them, 
saying: Children, have you any food with you?’ The disciples said to him, ‘No.’ And Joshua said to 
them, ‘Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some.’ They cast the net and now 
they were not able to draw it easily, because of the multitude of fish. Yiohannan, whom Joshua loved 
much,  said  to  Petros,  smiling: ‘Petros,  on  the  shore  is  the  Mshiha.’ When  Petros heard  from 
Yiohannan that the Mshiha was on the shore, he put on his robe (for he had taken it off), and plunged 
into the sea. The other disciples came in a little boat (as they were not far from, the shore, only about 
two hundred cubits), dragging the net with fish. As soon as the disciples had come to land, they saw a 
fire of coals ready and fish laid on it, and bread. Joshua said to them: ‘Bring some of the fish which 

221 
 
you have just caught.’ Petros went up and dragged the net to land, full of large fish, one hundred and 
fifty-three,  and  although  there  were  so  many,  the  net  was  not broken.  Joshua  said  to  his  disciples, 
‘Come,  all  of  you,  and  eat  breakfast.’ Yet  not  one  of  the  disciples dared  ask  him, ‘Who  are  you?’ 
knowing that it was the Mshiha. Joshua then came and took the bread and gave it to them, and also 
the  fish  from  the  fire.  This  was  the  third  time  Joshua  had shown  himself to  his  disciples  in K’far 
Nahum after he had raised his body from death. After the disciples had eaten breakfast, Joshua said 
to Petros, ‘Simon Petros, son of Jonah, do you love me more than the others love me?’ Petros said to 
Joshua, ‘Yes,  my  Mshiha,  you  know  that  I  love  you.’ And  the  God-man  said  to  Petros, ‘Feed  my 
lambs.’ Joshua  said  to  Petros  again  a  second  time: ‘Petros,  son  of Jonah,  do  you  love me?’ And 
Petros  said  to  Joshua: ‘Yes,  my  Mshiha,  you  know  I  love you’. And  Joshua  said  to  Petros, ‘Petros, 
tend  my  sheep.’ Joshua  said  to  Petros  the  third  time: ‘Petros,  son  of Jonah, do you love me?’ And 
Petros, with some bitterness, said to Joshua with emphasis: ‘I love you, my Mshiha, you know I love 
you.  You  know  everything,  my  Mshiha  and Alaha.  I  love  you.’ And  Joshua  said  to  Petros: ‘Petros, 
feed my sheep. Follow me then.’ (cf. John 21:1-17) 
Petros said to the God-man as he turned and saw Yiohannan standing near, ‘Mshiha,  you give 
me all authority over all in your new Order of worship and you ask me to guide your followers. What 
about this man here?’ 
Joshua  said to  Yiohannan, ‘You  will  remain  until  I  come  to  you.’ To  Petros  he  said, ‘Each of 
you will do what Alaha inspires you to do. If I ask Yiohannan to wait until I come to him, what is that 
to you, Petros? You follow me.’ 
Many,  many  times  the  God-man  Joshua  re-materialized  his  resurrected  body,  visiting  his 
disciples and many others through the ages, and his Divine Majesty, the King of the Heavens and the 
Earth, the Mshiha, Joshua, does this still. 
 
 
 
  

222 
 
Tables of Genealogy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

223 
 
Epilogue 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Absolute Infinite Divine Be-ness, AL, God the Father, the Source of everything existing, is in Its 
Divine  nature  incomprehensible  to  human  intelligence.  All  that is  known  is  that AL is  the  Absolute 
Infinite  Reality  in  Its  Self-sufficiency,  in  Its Plurality,  and  in  Its  Divine Omnipresent  One-ness, 
having in Its Divine Selfhood the total Wisdom and the Almightiness. 
AL, the Absolute Infinite Be-ness has in Itself, apart from Its Self-sufficiency, the Will-pleasure 
to manifest Its total Wisdom and Almightiness in Its Divine Self. Thus It manifests Its Self as Alaha 
or as El Shaddai, the Logos, who is active in the creation with the Holy Archangels co-vibrating with 
AL’s Will-pleasure. AL is the colorless Life-Light. 
Imagine  a  center  and  a  sphere  around it,  a  sphere  without  a  circumference,  without  surface. 
Everywhere within this sphere there are centers having colorless Life-Light. In these centers the Will-
pleasure of AL, becoming also Alaha, creates spheres, one sphere or billions of similar spheres, in Its, 
now  Logos,  Omnipresence,  having  in  Its  One-ness  all  the  Archangelic Orders.  The  inside  of  such  a 
sphere is what we call space. 
In  a  sphere  now  is  the  white  Life-Light,  the  total  Wisdom—as  cause  and  law—and  the 
Almightiness. 
In the Sphere-space the immortal Divine Beings in the One-ness of AL classify themselves into 
their  Archangelic  Orders  according  to  their  Divine  Nature  and  according  to  the  work  they will 
undertake in the creation of the worlds of existence, remaining always in the Divine One ness of the 
El Shaddai, the Logos. 
The El  Shaddai  Alaha vibrating  Its  Will-pleasure  in  Its  creativeness  manifests  the  white Life-
Light,  making  the  sound ‘Alaha’. The  Logos  vibrates  his  creativeness  and  Mind  manifests the 
golden-yellow Life-Light, making the sounds ‘El Shaddai.’ 
The golden-yellow Life-Light creates in the phenomena of life, which have been created by the 
Holy  Archangels  in  the  worlds  of  existence,  the  expressions  we  know  as  instinct,  sensitivity  and 
sensibility in the vegetable and animal kingdoms. 
A  human  being,  an  immortal  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Being,  has  in  his  gross  material  body instinct, 
sensitivity, and sensibility and, as a time-and-place personality, is granted by the Logos God various 
degrees of consciousness. 
A human being uses the Mind subconsciously and sometimes consciously, but us a Ego-Self, a 
Soul-Ego-Being,  he  may  use  the  Mind  as  a  mirror  to  reflect  his  Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self  as Self-
awareness,  as  Self-consciousness,  as  Self-Superconsciousness  and...  For  this reason  the El Shaddai 
humanized and incarnated his Divine Self as Joshua, the God-man, showing us the way back to our 
immortal Spirit-Soul-Ego nature. 

224 
 
Let us look again at the Sepher Yetzirah, the Creation. 
Some of the Divine Beings in AL, passing part of their immortal Selves through the prism, the 
Will-pleasure  of  AL  and  of Alaha,  classify  themselves  according  to  their  nature  and  the  work they 
will undertake in the creation, in the worlds of existence, into their Archangelic Orders. 
The  Archangelic  Beings  who  vibrate  the  Mind Vitality  substance  giving  the  red  Life-Light 
become the Lords of the Element of fire and of sun light, giving the sounds Maha-El. 
The  Archangelic  Beings  who  vibrate  the  Mind  Vitality  substance  giving  the  blue  Life-Light 
become the Lords of the Element of water and of all liquids, cooperating with other Archangels, and 
their domain is in and on the Earth, and in space around the Earth, giving the sounds Kha-vir-El. 
The Archangelic Beings vibrating the Mind Vitality substance giving the violet Life-Light with 
all  its  hues,  are  the  Lords  of  the  Mind  Vitality  as  energy,  which  we  call  power,  cosmic  rays, 
electricity  and  magnetism.  There  are  many  powers  in  the  universes  and  in  the worlds  of  existence 
unknown to man. Their domain is everywhere and the sounds they give is—Ra-pfa-El. 
It  would  take thousands  of  books  to tell even  a  little  about  the  activities  in  nature  of  the  Holy 
Archangels; to tell of their perfect cooperation and of the activities of the angels they create.  
The  warm,  red  blood  of  all  the  animals and  of  all  human  beings  is  the  marvelous  work  of the 
Logos, of the Holy Spirit, of the Maha-Els, the Ra-pfa-Els, the Kha-vir-Els and of many, many other 
Archangels  and  angels  manifesting  the  perfect cooperation  of the  Creators.  The Logos  God  and  the 
Holy Archangels in His Divine One-ness create and sustain the gross material bodies of men, and the 
warm  red  blood  that  flows  through  them.  Our  flesh  and  our  blood is  his  flesh  and  his  blood,  for 
Joshua, aware of all human beings in his own Selfhood said, 
‘Most assuredly, I say to you, he who believes in what I am teaching and in me has everlasting 
life. I am the bread of life... This is the bread which comes down from Heaven that one may eat of it 
and  not  die.  I AM  the living  bread  which  came  down from  Heaven.  If  anyone eats  of  this  bread,  he 
will live forever, and the bread that I shall give to you is my flesh which I am giving for the life in the 
world.’ The Jews therefore quarreled amongst themselves saying: ‘How can this man give us his 
flesh to eat?’ Then Joshua said to them ‘Most assuredly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the 
Son  of  Man  and  drink  his  blood  you  will  have  no  life  in you.  Whoever  eats  my  flesh  and  drinks  my 
blood will have eternal Life as a human being and I will raise him up at his last day. For my flesh is 
food  indeed  and  my  blood  is  drink  indeed.  He  who  eats  my  flesh  and  drinks  my  blood  abides in  me 
and I in him.’ (cf. John 6:47—48, 50-56) 
The  God-man  Joshua  knew  himself  to  be  the El  Shaddai  Alaha.  He  said, ‘I  and  my  Father 
Alaha are One.’ He knew therefore that the flesh and blood of every human being was his flesh and 
his blood. 
In the human form of every human being the gross material body is the flesh and blood of the 
El Shaddai Alaha, the Logos, and is therefore the flesh and blood of the God-man Joshua. 
Joshua  said, ‘He  who,  by  the  Will  of  the Father Alaha and  by  the  will  of  the  Spirit-Soul-Ego-
Self  (which  is  in  every  human  being),  dresses  his  Self,  is  dressing  his  human  Form  with Mind 
Vitality,  the  gift  of Alaha,  which  the  Holy  Archangels  use  to  create  and  sustain  the  gross material 
body, flesh and blood.’ 
Joshua’s flesh and blood can live in eternity if Man chooses to be incarnated as a human being. 
But  Life  is  not  restricted  to  phenomena  of  life.  Phenomena  of  life  in  the  gross  material world  of 
existence can live for only a limited time. But Life is everlasting. 
The God-man Joshua came to the gross material world of existence as a human being to reveal 
to Man the everlasting Life of the immortal Spirit-Soul-Ego, the Life of the real Self. 

225 
 
Alaha, the  Logos has created, creates now, and will create in eternity, universes and worlds of 
existence by manifesting His Will-pleasure and His total Wisdom. He fills these with phenomena of 
life beyond numbers and grants everything in abundance for His living creatures to use and to enjoy 
while  living  in  the  gross  material  world  of  existence  and  in  all  the  other  worlds of  existence,  the 
worlds or Heavens of the other dimensions. 
Man,  made  in  His  image  and  according  to  His  likeness,  has  gone  astray,  although Alaha, the 
Father,  has  given  Man  Mind  Vitality  to  be  used  properly  as  constructive  thinking,  observing the 
marvelous  works  in  the  worlds  of  existence  of Alaha and  His  Holy  Archangels  who  create and 
sustain  everything  living.  Man  has  enslaved  the  gift  of  Mind  to  illusions,  to  desires  and  egoistical 
emotions,   creating   human-demons   or   evil   elementals.   Man   has   wrapped   his   time-and place 
personality  in  veils  of  darkness  and  ignorance  and  as  a  result  has  become  wicked  and unhappy, 
causing pain and unhappiness to his family, friends, and neighbors. 
The most Merciful Alaha sent His prophets to call Man back to the right way. Through Moses 
He gave Man His Ten Commandments engraved on two stone tablets, trying in vain to engrave them 
also  on  the two  lobes  of  Man’s brain.  The  Ten  Commandments  remain  prohibitions  engraved  on 
stone. 
The most Merciful Alaha sent a Divine Ray of Himself to be humanized and incarnated with all 
Alaha’s Powers.  The  Divine  Ray  of Alaha,  humanized  through  immaculate conception, is  the God-
man Joshua, the Mshiha. 
An  Archangel  of  the  Order  of  the  Principalities  humanized  by  immaculate  conception  the 
Virgin  Mary  and  ten  years  after  the  birth  of  the  God-man,  another  Archangel  of  the  Order  of the 
Principalities  humanized  by  immaculate  conception,  Yiohannan,  the  first  cousin  of  Joshua and  his 
beloved companion-disciple. 
Yiohannan the Baptist, also a first cousin of the God-man, was also an Archangel humanized by 
immaculate conception, from the Order of the Maha-Els, the Lords of the Element of fire. 
Joshua  Immanuel,  the  God-man,  living  as  the  Son  of  Man,  healed  and  preached  and taught  of 
the Kingdom of the  Heavens and of Alaha, the  Father.  He taught his disciples and others to use the 
Mind Vitality in healing and to clean the subconsciousness and to awake in themselves the Ego-Soul 
consciousness  and  the  Self-Superconsciousness.  He  taught  them  to leave  Self-consciously  their 
material  body  and  to  materialize  Self-consciously  a  gross  material body  thousands  of  miles  from 
where they had left their body. 
By his life as the Son of Man, the God-man Joshua showed the Way and the Truth and the value 
of the real Life of the Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self, the everlasting Life in the many mansions in the house of 
Alaha, his Father. 
‘Let not your heart be troubled; you believe in Alaha, believe also in me. In my Father’s house 
are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I 
go and prepare a place for you, I will come again to you and receive you to myself; that where I AM 
there you may be also. And where I go, you know, and the way you know.’ Thomas said to Joshua, 
‘Malpana, we  do  not  know  where  you  are  going,  and  how  can  we  know  the  way?’ Joshua  said  to 
Thomas ‘I  Am the  Way,  the  Truth,  and  the  Life.  No one  comes  to  the  Father  except  through  me.’ 
(John 14:1–6) 
No one can come to Alaha except through the Christhood. 
Many times in K’far Nahum, Yerushalayim, and throughout Palestine, Joshua foretold that the 
Rayis Rabbis of the Sanhedrin would arrest him, abuse his body,  would wound it and crucify it and 
that  in three  days  he  would  resurrect  and  heal  it  and  come  to them again. ‘It  is  for this  hour  I  have 
come to  the  world.’ Joshua taught  them. He  demonstrated the  powers  of  the immortal  Spirit and  he 
showed them and us that the Spirit-Soul-Ego is indeed immortal. 
In the garden of Gethsemane, two hours before he allowed the Sanhedrin executioners to arrest 
him, he said to Yiohannan, Petros, and Yiacoub, ‘My Soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death.’ 
  

226 
 
Going  a  few  feet  away  from  them,  he  knelt  alone  before  a  rock,  pressing  his  hands  and  his 
forehead  against  it,  he  prayed.  For  Joshua  foresaw  the  human  blood  that  would  stain  the  planet  for 
centuries, spilled in the name of his Father and in his name, and his human Soul cried out in agony, 
‘Father, if it is possible, let this cup full of human blood pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, my 
Father, but as You will.’ 
The  persecutions  of  his  followers  that  Joshua  foretold  began  immediately  after  his Ascension 
with attacks by the Sanhedrin on the Essenes, the first Christians in Palestine. The Romans took up 
arms  against  the  Christians  and  every  country  in  the  Empire  under  Roman  rule was  stained  with 
Christian blood.  And  then ‘Christian’ nations  declared  war  on ‘Christian’ nations  until  the  whole 
planet was stained with human blood, His blood, for every human being lives in his El Shaddai One-
ness. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blessed are those who are persecuted for 
righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the Kingdom 
of the Heavens. Blessed are you when they 
revile and persecute you, and say all kinds of 
evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice 
and be exceedingly glad, for great is your 
reward in the Heavens for so they persecuted 
the prophets who were before you. 
(Matthew 5:10-12) 
 
 
 
 
 
For  a  true  Christian,  the  thirty-three-year-old  Essene,  who  was  condemned  to  death  by  the 
Sanhedrin and the Romans and was crucified two thousand years ago, is Joshua Immanuel, the God-
man,  a  Divine  Spirit-Ray  of  the El  Shaddai,  the  Logos  God,  who  by  the  Divine  Will  of Alaha,  his 
Heavenly Father, incarnated and humanized by immaculate conception part of his Divine Selfhood to 
save mankind. 
 
  

227 
 
Joshua, as the Son of Man, said, ‘All authority has been given to me by Alaha, my Father, in the 
Heavens and on the Earth.’ 
Joshua, promising to retain forever his Soul I-ness as Joshua Immanuel, the Son of Man, said, 
 
 
 
For where two or three are gathered together  
in my name, I am there in the midst of them.  
 (Matthew 18:20) 
 
For  fifty  days  after  Joshua  Immanuel  resurrected  his  material  body,  he  visited  hundreds  of his 
beloved followers. 
Then the eleven disciples went into Galilee to the mount which Joshua had appointed for them. 
And  when  they  saw  him  they  worshipped  him,  but  some  doubted.  Then  Joshua  came  and spoke  to 
them saying: ‘All Authority has been given to me in the Heavens and on the Earth. Go therefore and 
make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of Alaha the Father, and in the name of 
the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all the teaching I have given you and — I will 
be with all— to the end of the world.’ (cf. Matthew 28:16-20) 
Then,  and  now,  and  for  centuries to  come,  Joshua  Immanuel  beseeches Alaha,  his Heavenly 
Father, to take from him the cup, overflowing with human blood, his blood; for all human beings live 
in his Selfhood, in his Divine One-ness. 
This is the teaching of Joshua: ‘Love Alaha, the Father of all mankind, with all your heart with 
all  your  Soul,  with  all  your  mind,  with  all  your  Being,  and  love  all  human  beings,  the  offspring  of 
Alaha, as your own Self.’ 
  

228 
 
Glossary 
Ab  Aramaic: August 
Aba  Aramaic: Father 
Adonai Alaha 
 Aramaic: Lord God 
Adonai Elohim 
Aramaic: Lord of the Archangels, Lord of the 
Archangelic Hosts, Lord of Hosts 
Adonai Melekh Shamayyim 
 Aramaic: Lord King of the Heavens 
Adonai Melekh 
 Aramaic: Lord King 
Adonai Tsebaoth 
 Aramaic: Lord Sabaoth 
Adonai 
 Aramaic: Lord 
Agnus Dei, ecce qui tollit peccatum mundi 
Latin: Behold, the Lamb of God who takes 
away 
the sin of the world 
Ain Soph Aur 
 Aramaic: boundless, inextinguishable, 
creative Light 
AL  Aramaic: Absolute Infinite Be-ness, God the 
 Father, the Source of everything existing 
 see: Be-ness, Absolute 
Alaha Bra 
 Aramaic: God the Son 
Alaha El Shaddai 
 Aramaic: Logos 
Alaha Elohim 
Aramaic: God of Gods, Alaha and His Holy 
Archangels, the Creators in Alaha’s One-ness 
Alaha Hashmal 
 Aramaic: God of the Light 
Alaha Melekh 
 Aramaic: God the King 
Alaha Ruha d’Kudsha 
 Aramaic: God the Holy Spirit 
 
Alaha Shamayyim 
 Aramaic: God of the Heavens 
Alaha Shekhinah 
 Aramaic: God the Holy Spirit 
Alaha 
 Aramaic: God, singular of Elohim (also 
 spelled Allaha or Eloha) 
 Allah The Supreme Being of most Bedouins 
 at the time of Christ 
Allahu Patishah 
 The One True God of the Bedouins in 
 Palestine at the time of Christ; Allah 
Annu 
 Heliopolis in Ancient Egypt 
Aramaic 
A Semitic language; the lingua-franca to the 
Persian Empire, which stretched from the 
Mediterranean to the Great Wall of China for 
more than a thousand years before and after 
the birth of Jesus 
Asa-Rabbi 
 Aramaic: Healer Rabbi, Healer Master, Healer 
Teacher 
Asa Aramaic:  Healer 
Ateh Gibor Leolam Adonai 
Aramaic: You are mighty forever, O Lord 
Aton  The One True Spirit God introduced by the 
Pharaoh Ankh-en-Aton in Ancient Egypt and 
worshipped by the Egyptian Israelites and the 
Greco-Egyptians 
Aton-ai 
The One Spirit God, God of everlasting Life 
and Love, of the Essenes in Egypt, 
see also: Aton, and Adonai 
 
 
 
  

229 
 
Auto-da-fe 
Solemn proclamation of a judgment pronounced 
by the Inquisition, followed by the execution of 
the judgment by the secular authorities; often the 
burning alive of a heretic 
Baal-das-Aaussar 
One of the three Magi; Balthazar 
Bat-Salmaynu-Kidmuthenu 
Aramaic: Image and likeness 
Being and existing 
Being is our Divine Nature, boundless and eternal 
Spirit. Existing, as a projection of Being, is within 
the boundaries of time-place-space. An existence 
is a temporal phenomenon with a beginning and 
an end 
Beingness, Absolute 
The all encompassing Godhead. Its characteristics 
include Plurality in Its One-ness, Self-sufficiency, 
and the Will-pleasure to manifest Itself in Itself as 
Creation 
Benai Alaha 
Aramaic: Sons of God (plural) 
Benai Or 
Aramaic: Sons of the Light 
Be-ness, Absolute 
That aspect of God which lies absolutely beyond 
the reach of human and Archangelic 
comprehension. The ultimate Source, the 
fathomless and inarticulate depths of the Divine 
that are beyond expression 
Beni Adonai Melekh 
Aramaic: Son of the Lord King 
Beni Alaha 
Aramaic: Son of God 
Bereshith Bara Elohim 
Aramaic: Creator Gods, the Holy Archangels 
Bethania 
Bethany. There were two places called Bethania. 
One town was northeast of Jerikho, east of the 
place where Yiohannan the Baptist had baptized 
Joshua Immanuel the Christ. The other town 
called Bethania was south of Yerushalayim and 
was where Joshua raised Eliezar (Lazarus) from 
the tomb 
Dalanda 
Roman silver coins 
Davout 
Aramaic: David 
Denarii 
Roman silver coins 
Ehyeh Asher Ehyeh 
Aramaic: I am that I am 
Ehyeh Beni Alaha 
Aramaic: I am the Son of God 
El Shaddai 
Aramaic: Logos, Alaha in expression 
Elemental 
Thought- or Emotion-Form. Every thought, 
emotion, and desire or aversion—both conscious 
and subconscious—creates and transmits an 
elemental, a thought-form, that carries on an 
existence of its own. Once created an elemental 
can never be destroyed, only disenergized (when 
no longer fed with etheric Vitality). 
Eliezar 
a form of the name Lazarus 
Elohim 
Aramaic: Plural of Eloha, Alaha; see also Alaha 
Elohim 
En-Nassar 
Aramaic: Nazareth 
Existence 
see: Being and existing 
Exosomatosis 
Greek: Out of body experience. We know of a 
first (from the material body), a second (from the 
psychical body) and a third (from the noetical 
body) exosomatosis. We all leave our bodies at 
night, during sleep, and travel to other planes 
subconsciously. The aim, however, is to be self-
conscious while out of body 
Gaspar 
One of the three Magi 
Gehenna 
Aramaic: Hell 
Hakhamim 
Aramaic: Vital body 
Ham-El-Khior 
Sanskrit: I see God 
Hashmal 
Aramaic: Light, Mind-Light 
Hokhma 
Aramaic: Wisdom 
Human-angels 
see: Human-in-nature angels 
Human-demons 
see: Human-in-nature demons 
Human-in-nature angels 
Positive elementals created by human beings 
Human-in-nature demons 
Negative elementals created by human beings 
Ibrahim 
Aramaic: Abraham 
Iskenderia 
Aramaic: Alexandria 
Is-Shakh 
Aramaic: Isaac 
Jerikho 
Aramaic: Jericho 

230 
 
Joshua Immanuel the Christ 
Jesus Christ; as the ‘son of God’ he is a manifestation 
of a pure ray of the El Shaddai (Logos); as the ‘son of 
Man’ he was incarnated  by immaculate conception. 
Joshua is the Aramaic name for Jesus. The second 
name refers to the prophecy of Isaiah (7:14). 
Immanuel means literally ‘God-with-us’. The Greek 
word ‘Christos’ means ‘the Anointed’ and 
corresponds to the Aramaic ‘Mshiha’ (Messiah) 
K’far Nahum 
Aramaic: Capernaum 
Kaiaphas 
Aramaic: Caiaphas 
Kaparuta 
Aramaic: Heretics 
Khemt 
Ancient Egyptian name for Egypt 
Kniu-Mu Mosis 
Name of Moses in Ancient Egypt 
Kodoish 
Aramaic: Holy 
Kuch-ha-guf 
Aramaic: Body of sensations and emotions 
Lilith 
Demon; Sex lust elemental 
Logos 
Manifestation of Absolute Beingness; Son of God; El 
Shaddai; Divine Common Selfhood; the ‘Word’ as 
identified by St. John: ‘In the beginning (in authority) 
was the Word, and the Word was in God, and the 
Word was God...All things were made through him, 
and without him nothing was made that was made.’ 
(cf. John 1: 1-3) 
(According to Daskalos the Greek word ‘En arche’, 
traditionally translated as ‘in the beginning’, should be 
translated as 'in authority') 
Maharajah Rama Tavaivahan 
Later known as Maharajah Ham-El-Khior, one of 
the three Magi; Melchior 
Malpana 
Aramaic: Teacher 
Maout 
Aramaic: Death 
Mara 
Aramaic: Form of address: Sir, Sire, Lord 
Maryia Alaha 
Aramaic: Lord God 
Mehayyai Hametim 
Aramaic: The One calling the dead back to life 
Melekh Shamayyim 
Aramaic: King of the Heavens 
Melekh 
Aramaic: King 
Merkabah 
Aramaic: Divine Mind-Light body 
Metathronios 
 Guardian Archangel 
Mind 
 Holy emanation of God; substance out of which 
 everything was made that was made in the worlds 
 of existence. It exists at various rates of vibration: 
 as Mind Supersubstance, as Mind substance, and 
 as Mind solid (matter). 
Mishnas 
Aramaic: Sections 
Moshe 
Aramaic: Moses 
Mosis 
Kniu-Mu Mosis: Name of Moses in Ancient Egypt 
Mshiha 
Aramaic: Messiah 
Mugkatdes Rahib-Shaheed 
Aramaic: Holy Monk-Martyr 
Mukuishim 
Offspring of Lilith 
Nazoraei 
Order of Essene Ascetics (sing. Nazoraeos) 
Nephes Khuf 
Aramaic: Etheric double of the material body 
Neshamah 
Aramaic: Etheric (Mind-Light) Vitality 
Perakins 
Aramaic: Chapters 
Rabbi-Asa 
Aramaic: Rabbi Healer, see: Asa-Rabbi 
Rahib 
Aramaic: Monk 
Rayis Rabbi 
Aramaic: High Priest 
Ruach Elohim 
Aramaic: Spirit of God 
Ruha 
Aramaic: Spirit of God, Breath of God 
Sabbath 
The seventh day of the week in the Jewish calendar; the 
period of Friday evening to Saturday evening, kept as 
day of rest and worship by the Jews 
Sanhedrin 
Israelite Religious Authority in Palestine 
Sepher Yetzirah 
Ancient Jewish treatise on the Divine Dynamics of 
the spiritual domain; Book of Creation 
Shabbatai 
Aramaic: Zebedee 
Shaddai El 
Aramaic: Almighty God 
Shakh 
Aramaic: Sheikh, Arab Chief, title of respect 
Shalama 
Aramaic: Form of greeting: Peace be with you 
 
Shalom 
 
Yiatnanese 

231 
 
Aramaic: Shalama, Peace (as form of greeting: 
Peace be with you, with us) 
Shamaon 
Aramaic: Simeon 
Shekhinah 
Aramaic: Holy Spirit, the feminine aspect of God 
Shettim 
Offspring of Lilith 
Shlam 
short for Shlama 
Shlam aleicum 
Aramaic: Form of greeting; Peace be with you, 
with us 
Shlam aleyhem 
Aramaic: Form of greeting; Peace be with you 
Shlam Ruha 
Aramaic: Peace to your Spirit 
Shlama 
Shalama, Shalom, Peace 
Siddim 
Aramaic: Evil Ones 
Sol-Amon 
Aramaic: Solomon 
Soul-Ego-Being 
The individual I-ness of Man’s Real Self within 
the Spirit-Ego-Being. The Soul can be identified 
 with our luminous Spirit human Form 
Sounai 
short for Yiassounai 
Spirit-Ego-Being 
Man’s Self as Holy Monad, as Divine Being; 
boundless, eternal, immovable 
Tammuz 
Aramaic: July 
Torah 
Jewish Book of Divine instruction containing the 
Pentateuch (the first five books of the Old 
Testament); the Law of God/YHVH 
Tubveyhuns 
Aramaic: Blessings 
Tzool-mah 
Aramaic: Etheric double 
Will-pleasure 
God’s pleasure in creativeness; Absolute Infinite 
Beingness expressing Itself in Itself as Creation. 
Will-pleasure, in Greek (euvareskeia), carries a 
sense of pleasure derived from bountiful giving, 
as practiced by a warmly generous and wealthy 
source. 
Yerushalayim 
Aramaic: Jerusalem 
Yiacoub 
Aramaic: James 
Yiardna  Aramaic: Jordan River 
Greco-Egyptians living in Ancient Egypt 
Yioakhim 
Aramaic: Joachim 
Yiohannan 
Aramaic: John 
Yioussouf 
Aramaic: Joseph 
Zakharias 
Aramaic: Zacharias 
Zauir Anpin 
Aramaic: Absolute Beingness, Logos 
Zealots 
A secret underground movement of Jewish 
fanatics who were bitterly opposed to the Roman 
domination of Palestine at the time of Joshua 
Immanuel the Christ 
Zohar 
Book of reference and interpretation of Jewish 
Mysticism 
 
  

232 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following books by the author 
were published in Cyprus: 
‘The Esoteric Teachings’, ‘The Esoteric Practice’, 
‘The Parables and other Stories’, and ‘The Symbol of Life’ 
 
His daughter, Panayiota Th. Atteshli, published a book 
‘Gates to the Light, Exercises and Meditations.’ 
 
The books are available from: 
Panayiota Th. Atteshli 
P.O. Box 28347 
CY-2020 Nicosia, Cyprus 
  

233 
 
 