



PENGUIN    BOOKS    
THE   MAGUS  OF  STROVOLOS  
Kyriacos   C.   Markides,   a   native   of   Cyprus,   is   Professor   of   
Sociology  at  the  University  of  Maine.  He  is  married  to  Emily  J.  
Markides   from   Famagusta,   Cyprus.  They  have  two  children,  
Constantine  and  Vasia.  He  has  also  written  Homage  to  the  Sun,  
a  sequel  to  The  Magus  of Strovolos,  Fire in  the Heart  and  Riding  
with  the  Lion.  

The Magus of 
Strovolos 
The  Extraordinary   World   
of a  Spiritual  Healer  
KYRIACOS  C.  MARKIDES  
PENGUIN   BOOKS   

PENGUIN   BOOKS   
Published  by the  Penguin Group 
Penguin  Books  Ltd,  80  Strand,  London WC2R  ORL,  England  
Penguin  Putnam  Inc., 375  Hudson  Street,  New York,  New  York  10014,  USA  
Penguin  Books Australia  Ltd,  250  Camberwell  Road,  Camberwetl,  Victoria 3124,  Australia  
Penguin  Books Canada  Ltd,  10  Alcorn  Avenue, Toronto,  Ontario,  Canada  M4V  3B2  
Penguin  Books  India  (P)  Ltd,  11  Community  Centre,  Panchsheel  Park,  New  Delhi -110 017,  India  
Penguin  Books  (NZ)  Ltd,  Cnr  Rose dale and Airborne Roads,  Albany, Auckland, New Zealand 
Penguin  Books  (South  Africa)  (Ptyl  Ltd,  24  Sturdee  Avenue,  Rosebank 2196,  South  Africa  
Penguin  Books Ltd,  Registered  Offices:  80  Strand, London WC2R  ORL,  England  
www.penguin.com 
First published by  Routledge  St  Kegan  Paul  Ltd  1985  
Published  in  Penguin  Books 1990 
20 
Copyright ©  Kyriacos  C.  Markides,  1985  
All  rights reserved 
The  moral right  of the author  has  been  asserted  
Printed  in England  by Clays Ltd,  St Ives pic 
Filmset  in  10/1 lpt Sabon 
Except  in the United  States  of America,  this  book  is  sold  subject  
to  the condition  that it    shall  not,  by way  of trade or otherwise,  be lent, 
re-sold,  hired  out,  or  otherwise circulated  without the publisher's 
prior consent  in  any form of  binding or cover  other than  that in 
which  it     is  published  and  without a similar condition  including  this  
condition  being imposed  on  the  subsequent purchaser 
ISBN-13:   978-0-14-019034-2   
www.greenpenguin.cauk 
Penguin Books  is  committed  to  a  sustainable  future  
for our business,  our readers  and our planet. 
The book in  your hands  is  made  from  paper  
certified  by  the Forest Stewardship Council. 

To  the  memory  of my  mother  
To  my  father  
To  Emily,  Constantine  and  Vasia  

Contents 
Author's  Note     ix     
1  The  Magus  of  Strovolos     1     
2   Exorcising  the  Nazi  Spirits     12     
3   Elementals     29     
4  The  Authenticity  of  Experience     47     
5   Karma     62     
6   Memories     74     
7   From  Death  to  Rebirth     88     
8   Encountering  the  Logos     112     
9   Cosmology     123     
10   The  Guardians  of  Planet  Earth     145     
11  Tales  of  Possession     159     
12   Healing     171     
13   Materialization  and  Dematerialization  
14   Afterthoughts     210     
Glossary     220     
vii 

Author's   Note   
I  appreciate  and  I  am  well  aware  of  feminist  concerns  about  
language.  To  avoid,  however,  stylistically  cacophonous  phrases  
such  as  his/hers  or  he/she  I  decided,  reluctantly,  to  follow  the  
traditional  style.  Therefore,  whenever I  write  about  'Mankind'  I  
mean  both  men  and  women.  When  I  refer  to  God  as  'He'  I  do  
so    only   because  of  customary   usage  without  presuming  that  
Divinity  is  masculine.  
For  the  same   reasons  I  decided  to   use  the  Greek  style  in  
addressing  names.  For example  I  speak  of  Daskalos  in  the  third  
person.  But  when  I  address  him  I  say  Daskale.  Similarly  with  
Kostas   and   Iacovos.   When  I  call   on   them   I   say   Kosta   and   
Iacovo.  Feminine  names  do  not  pose  this  problem.  All  names  in  
the  text  are  fictitious  except  historical  names  and  those  of  my  
family.    Other   than   names,   nothing   else   in    this   study    is    
fictitious. 
The   present   research   should   be  considered  primarily  as  a  
phenomenological   study   of   a   spiritual   healer   and   his   close   
associates.  It  is  not  a  study  in  parapsychology.  My  focus  is  not  
to     test   or    ascertain   the    empirical    validity    of   paranormal   
phenomena.  Instead  I  try  to  present  as  accurately  as  possible  
the  world  as  experienced  by  the  subjects  themselves.  This  does  
not  imply  that  my  role  has  been  that  of  a  passive  observer.  As  
the  reader  will  discover,  I  have  become  an  active  participant  
within  this  group  of  healers  in  my  effort  to  understand  their  
world  from  within  their  system.  
The  material  was  gathered  in  four  separate  periods,  during  
the  summer  of  1978,  the  period  between  December  1978  and  
September  1979,  and  the  summer  months  of  1981  and  1983.  
I  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the  University  of  Maine  
for   offering   me   a   summer   grant   and   a   sabbatical   leave   of   
absence    during   the    1978-9    academic   year.    Without    such    
generous  support  this   study   would  probably   not  have   taken   
IX 

X 
AUTHOR'S  NOTE  
place.    Similar   appreciation    goes   to   my   colleagues    at   the   
Department  of  Sociology  and  Social  Work.  I  would  also  like  to  
thank   the   staff   of   the   Cyprus   Social   Research   Centre   for   
offering  the  use  of  their  copying  machines  and  tape  recorders  
whenever  I  needed  them.  
Many  thanks  to  my  friends  Stephen  and  Joan  Marks  who  
first   triggered   my   interest   in   issues   related   to   the   study   of   
consciousness  and  spirituality.  Thanks  too  to  my  other  friends,  
colleagues  and  fellow scholars  who  read  the  original  manuscript  
and  generously  offered  their  supportive  and  critical  appraisal:  
Stephen    Cohn,    Richard   Fenn,   Herbert   Maccoby,    Leonard    
Doob,   Joanne    Green,    Erling    Skorpen,   Jacob    Needleman,    
Marcello   Truzzi,   Michael    Harner,   James   Laue   and   Colin   
Wilson. 
Thanks   to   Marlene   Gabriel,   my   literary   agent,   for   her   
friendship,  confidence  in   the  book   and  first-rate  professional  
expertise.  Thanks   also  to  Eva  Meyn  for  superbly   typing  the  
manuscript.  My  love  to  my  sister  Maroulla  Christou  for  being  
the  great  sister that  she  is  and  for  the  help  she  has  always  given  
us  during  our  stay  in  Cyprus.  To  my  wife  Emily  are  reserved  
the   deepest   affections   for,   among   other   things,   her   spirited   
support,  intellectual  stimulation  and  outstanding  editing  of  the  
first  draft.  
I   wish,   finally,   to   express   my   profound   admiration   for   
Daskalos  and  his  close  associates.  My  work  with  them  has  been  
truly  a  labor  of  love.  In  a  very  real  sense  this  is  their  book.  

1 
The  Magus  of  Strovolos  
I  knew  of  Spyros  Sathi  from  childhood.  His  reputation  as  the  
island's  leading  specialist  of  the  netherworld  stirred  in  me  a  
mixture  of  fascination,  curiosity  and  fright.   As  children,  we  
were  warned  by  the  priest  of  our  parish  to  shun  the  'Magus  of  
Strovolos,'   the   man   with   'satanic  powers.'  We  listened  with  
wide  eyes  to  tales  of  possession  and  exorcisms  and  myths  of  his  
house  overcrowded   with   disembodied   spirits.   His   name  was  
synonymous  with  occultism  itself  and  anyone  with  the  courage  
and  desire  to  contact  his  dead  mother  had  but  to  knock  at  his  
door.  That  was  the  image  I  had  in  my  mind  of  Spyros  Sathi  
when  I  left  Cyprus  for  America  in  1960.  
Almost   two   decades   later   I   hardly   remembered   the   man   
whom  I  fantasized  about  but  never  met  in  my  early  youth.  It  
was  not  until  the  summer  of  1978  on  a  visit  to  Cyprus  that  my  
interest  in  the   'Magus   of  Strovolos'  was  reawakened.   I  was  
casually  conversing  with  an  old  friend,  a  philologist,  when  she  
told   me   in   confidence   that   she   and   her   husband,   a   judge,   
belonged  to  a  semi-secret  'Circle  for  the  Research  of  Truth.'  
The  spiritual  master  of  this  mystical  cult,  I  was  surprised  to  
learn,   was    none   other   than    the   'Magus   of   Strovolos.'   I   
immediately  expressed  an  interest  in  meeting  him.  
It    was   late   in   August   when   I   drove   with   my   friend   to   
Strovolos,  a  Nicosia  suburb,  to  meet  Spyros  Sathi.  How  ironic,  
I  thought, that  I  had  to  spend  eighteen years in  America before I 
could  meet  this  mysterious  man  who  lived  only  two  miles  from  
my  house.  I  expected  to  encounter  a  person  of  stern  disposition  
and  ferocious  looks,  at  par  with  his  reputation.  None  of  my  
preconceptions   were   valid.   He   was   a   tall   and   sympathetic-
looking  grandfather  in  his  mid-sixties,  a  retired  civil  servant  
who   lived   frugally  on   his   government  pension.   Instead  of  a  
half-mad   menacing   sorcerer   I   encountered   an   ebullient   and   
deeply   religious   person   with   a   high   sense   of   humor   whose   
1 

2 
THE  MAGUS  OF  STROVOLOS  
hobbies  included  painting  and  classical  music.  He  thought  of  
himself  as  a healer  and  a  'psychotherapist,'  a  doctor of  the  soul,  
whose  primary  concern  in  life  was  to  alleviate  pain  around  him,  
as    he  put  it,  and  assist  those  interested  and  ready  to  embark  on  
a  journey  of  self-discovery.  
'We  have  met  before!'  he  exclaimed  when  I  first  met  him,  
and  placed  his  right  hand  on  his  forehead.  
'I   do  not  think  so,'  I  said  smiling,  and  extended  my  hand  as  
my  friend  introduced  us.  
'We   have   met   before,'   he   nodded   with   confidence,   and   
invited  us  to  sit  in  his  small  living room.  1  assumed  he  confused  
me  with  someone  else  and  I  left  the  subject  at  that.  
Daskalos,  as   my  friend  called  him,   offered  us  coffee  and  
inquired  about  my  family  background,  a  customary  practice  in  
Cyprus  where  in  a  population  of  slightly  over  half  a  million  
'everybody  is  related  to  everybody  else.'  I  then  began  asking  
questions  about  his  life  and  teachings.  To  my  pleasant  surprise  
Daskalos   was   a   talkative   man   and   answered   my   questions   
without  reservations.  He  even  invited  me  to  attend  the  meetings  
he  held  every  fortnight.  In  that first encounter  I  understood  that  
his  teachings  were  a  blend  of  Christian  mysticism  and  Indian  
religion.  The  concept  of  Karma,  or  the  law  of  cause  and  effect  
as    he  called  it,  and  the  doctrine  of  reincarnation  seemed  to  play  
a  central   role   in  what  he   disseminated   to   his   disciples.   My   
curiosity  about  Daskalos'   world  was  intensified  as  I  realized  
that  he  was  hardly  a  primitive  shaman  but  a  highly  articulate  
and  intellectually  cultivated  man.  Yet  the  world  within  which  
he  lived  was  mysterious  and  exotic  from  my  vantage  point.  
'I   have  heard  of  miraculous  cures  that  you  have  performed,'  
I  pointed  out.   'Is   there   a   chance  that   I   could   witness   such   
miracles?'   I   confessed   to   Daskalos   that   I   had   a   hard   time   
accepting  the  notion  of  'miracles.'  1  went  on  to  say  that  the  
anthropological  literature  is  full  of  accounts  of  extraordinary  
feats  of  healing  by  shamans  and  healers.  'But  I  need  to  witness  
such  phenomena  myself  before  I  can  be  convinced,'  I  said.  
'First  of  all,'  Daskalos  replied,  smiling,  'those  cures  you  have  
heard  about were  not  performed  by  me  but by the  Holy Spirit.  I  
am   nothing   more   than   a   channel   of   that   super-intelligence.   
Whether  you  witness  or  not  a  so-called  miracle  is  not  up  to  me.  
If  it    is  part  of the  Divine  Plan  for you  to  witness  a  miracle,  then  

3 THE MAGUS OF STROVOLOS 
you  will.  But  we  just  cannot  order  a  miracle  to  happen.'  
Before   1   left   that   day   Daskalos   invited   me   to   attend   a   
meeting  that   he   was   to   have   with   some  of   his  students   the   
following  afternoon  in  the  Stoa.   It  was  a  small   room  in  the  
back  of  his  yard,  detached  from  the  rest  of  the  house,  where  he  
trained  his  disciples.  The  Stoa  was  divided  into  two,  the  main  
part  where  the  instructions  took  place,  and  the  Sanctum  where  
Daskalos  carried  out  his  meditations  and  prayers.  The  Sanctum  
was  filled  with  religious  artifacts,  icons  of  Christ,  of  the  Holy  
Virgin  and  white  candles.  On  the  altar  there  was  a  silver  cup  
and  next  to  it  was  a  small  sword  without  a  point,  resting  on  a  
cross.   This   Unpointed   Sword,   I   learned   later,   was   of   great   
symbolic  significance  to  Daskalos'  circles.  
1  took  up  his  invitation  to  attend  his  meeting  with  my  wife,  
Emily,  who  met  Daskalos  for  the  first  time.  When  we  arrived  at  
his  house  half  an  hour  before  the  formal  meeting,  Daskalos  had  
just  completed  a  therapy  and  looked  exhausted,  sitting  in  an  
armchair   and   wearing   a   leather   apron   similar   to   the   type   
butchers  wear  in  Cyprus.  Next  to  him  sat  a  rough-looking  and  
happily  smiling  villager.  
'There  comes   the   Doubting  Thomas!'   Daskalos  exclaimed  
humorously  as  he  saw  me  coming  into  the  room  with  Emily.  
'Had   you   been   here   ten   minutes   earlier   you   would   have   
witnessed  a  miracle.'  Daskalos  explained  that  the  visitor  had  
been   suffering   from   his   spine  for  the  last  twenty  years  as  a  
result  of  beatings  he  endured  at  the  hands  of  British  soldiers  
during  the  anti-colonial  underground  war  of  the  1950s.  
'Now   he   is   well,'   he   declared   confidently,   if   he   is   now   
examined  the  X-rays  will  show  a  completely  cured  spine.'  
The    peasant,    with    a    look    of    incredulity    on    his   face,   
continued  to  smile  happily  as  I  asked  him  questions  about  his  
illness.   He  told   me  how   well   he  felt  and  how  the  pains  he  
suffered  all  those  years  were  gone,  i  wish  1  had  time  to  study  
this,'  1  murmured,  'but  I  am  leaving  for  America  tomorrow.'  
'Do  I  owe  you  anything?'  the  villager  asked  after  a  while.  
'Of   course   you   do!'   Daskalos   replied.   'Do   exactly   as   1   
advised  you  to  do.  Eat  and  drink  less  and  take  vitamins.'  In  
spite   of  the   man's   persistence  Daskalos   refused   to   take   any   
compensation  for  his  services.  
By  the  time  the  meeting  was  to  take  place  Daskalos  looked  

4 THE  MAGUS  OF  STROVOLOS  
revitalized  as  if  charged  by  some  mysterious  energy.  After  a  
short  prayer  he  began  the  lesson.  Man,  he  said,  is  an  eternal  
entity,  an  emanation  of  a  'Holy  Monad'  and  after  his  passage  
through  the  'Idea  of  Man,'  an  archetype  within  the  Absolute,  
he  acquires  shape  and  existence.  The  moment  we  pass  through  
the  Idea  of  Man  we  embark  on  our  incarnational  cycles.  The  
ultimate   aim   is   to   return   to  the   source,   carrying  along   the   
accumulated  experiences  of  earthly  lives.  
Daskalos   then   spoke   of   Mind   as   the   supersubstance   by   
which  the  'universes'  are  constructed.  It  is  the  stuff  from  which  
we  as  human  beings  build  'elementals.'  We  give  birth  to  such  
elementals  with  our  thoughts  and  sentiments.  Once  'projected'  
they  have  an  existence  of their  own  and  can  affect  those  around  
us    that  'vibrate'  on  the  same  frequency.  
It   was  not  easy  for  us  to  follow  his  talk  as  it  was  the  first  
time  we  were  exposed  to  such  a  language.  I  realized  that  to  
understand   Daskalos'    vocabulary    and    world    view    would    
require  continuous  exposure  and  discussions  with  him.  
Emily  and  our  children  remained  in  Cyprus  while  I  returned  
to   Maine  to  teach  during  the  fall  of  1978.  We  were  to  reunite  
in   Cyprus  at  Christmas  and  begin  my  sabbatical  leave  for  the  
spring  of  1979.  This  would  provide  us  with  nine  continuous  
months  in  Cyprus,  a  great  opportunity  to  enmesh   ourselves   
once  again  in  our  native  culture  and  rekindle  old  friendships  as  
well  as  make  new ones.  At  the  same  time  I  planned  to  complete  
a   manuscript  on  the  problem  of  international  terrorism,  the  
material  for  which  I  had  already  gathered.  
In   the  back  of  my  mind,  however,  there  lurked  Spyros  Sathi.  
The  brief  encounters  with  him  intrigued  me  and  led  me  into  
further reading  on shamanism  and non-medical healing.  By  mid-
semester  while  reading  Doug  Boyd's  Rolling  Thunder,  a  study  of  
an  American  Indian  medicine  man,  I  was  literally  jolted  by  the  
thought  of  spending  my  sabbatical  leave  to  gather  material  on  
Spyros Sathi with the intention of eventually writing a book about 
him.  The  manuscript  on  terrorism,  I  thought,  could  wait.  
I  was  not,  however,  confident  that  he  would  allow  me  to  be  
anything  other  than  a  disciple.  I  was  aware  of  his  distaste  for  
publicity.  Yet  1  felt  I  already  had  established  a  good  rapport  
with  him  and  I  was  hopeful  he  would  not  object.  To  prepare  
the  ground  I  mailed  him  a  letter  and  a  book  I  published  on  the  

5 THE MAGUS OF STROVOLOS 
social   and   political   developments   in   Cyprus.   In   my   letter   I   
mentioned  nothing  of  my  intentions  but  simply  wrote,  'I  am  
sending  you  this  book  because  I  realize  how  interested  you  are  
in   the  problems  of  Cyprus.  See  you  in  December.'  
The   second   day  of  my   return   to   the   island   I  visited   my   
philologist  friend  and  revealed  to  her  my  intentions.  
'Don't  raise  your  hopes,'  she  cautioned  me.  'Daskalos  will  
not  allow  anyone  to  write  about  him.  He  is  not  even  willing  to  
give  interviews.'  
Disappointing  as  her  warnings  were,  I  thought  I  should  try  
my  luck.  I  hadn't  seen  Daskalos  for  more  than  three  months  
and  I  was  eager   to   reestablish  contact  with  him   as  soon  as  
possible.  When  I  reached  his  home  he  was  busy  with  a  healing  
session.   The   door  of  the   living   room   was  shut   but  I   could   
distinctly   hear   his   voice.   I   sat   in   the   hallway   waiting   as   
Daskalos   diagnosed   that   the   patient's   skin   problems   were   
psychological  and  cure  implied  change  of  attitude  on  his  part.  
'Where  have  you  been  all  this  time?'  he  exclaimed  when  he  
saw   me   as   he   escorted   his   visitors   to   the   door.   To   my   
disappointment  he  did  not  seem  to  remember  that  I  had  been  in  
America  during  the  last  four  months.  
'Haven't  you  received  my  letter?'  I  asked,  somewhat  puzzled.  
'What   letter?'   he   replied,   and   feigned   ignorance   of   ever   
receiving  a  copy  of  my  book.  
is   this  the  one?'  a  young  man  who  seemed  to  be  one  of  
Daskalos'  apprentices  said  as  he  opened  a  drawer  and  pulled  
out  my  book.  
'Yes,  that  is  the  one,'  I  replied.  
'You  mean  you  wrote  that?'  Daskalos  exclaimed  and  pointed  
at    the  book.  
Obviously  not  only  did  he  not  bother  to  look  at  my  book  
and  explore  its  content,  but  he  did  not  even  notice  who  the  
author   was.   My   ego   was   hurt.   I   had   the   feeling   that   the   
prospect  of  letting  me  write  a  book  about  him  seemed  to  me  at  
that  moment  remote.  Yet  I  decided  to  persist  in  spite  of  the  
awkwardness  of  the  situation.  
'I   will  be  in  Cyprus  for  the  next  nine  months,'  I  said,  'I    have  
my  sabbatical  from  the  university  and...  .'  
'What  is  a  sabbatical?'  he  interrupted.  When  I  explained  he  
shook  his  head  in  disbelief.  

6 
THE  MAGUS  OF  STROVOLOS  
'You  mean  to  tell  me,'  he  went  on  as  he  raised  his  eyebrows  
in   a  mocking  grimace,  'that  you  will  be  paid  for  such  a  long  
time  without  working?   How   great  it  is   to   have  leisure!'   he   
remarked  to  his  young  apprentice.  
Before  I  had  a  chance  to  protest  that  a  sabbatical  was  not  a  
vacation  he  baffled  me  with  an  embarrassing  question.  
'By  the way,'  he  said  in  a  low  and teasing voice,  'can  you  tell  
us how  much  you  are  making,  if     1  may  ask?'  I  felt cornered  but  
he  seemed  to  ignore  my  discomfort.  I  knew  that  people  simply  
did  not  ask  such  questions.  
'Sure,'  I  replied  as  I  swallowed  my  excess  saliva  and  revealed  
my  salary.  
'All   that   money!'   he   marvelled,   and   shook   his   head   in   
amazement.  I  clumsily  rushed  to  explain  that  such  a  salary  may  
appear  high  but  could  hardly  be  considered  even  average  by  
American  standards.  He  seemed  unsympathetic.  His  reactions  
made  me  feel  as  if  I  were  a  member  of  a  parasitic  class.  At  that  
moment  I  realized  the  wisdom  of  my  friend's  admonitions.  I  
assumed  that  the  chances  of  writing  a  book  about  him  were,  
for   all   practical   purposes,   nil.   Daskalos   did   not   take   me   
seriously  at  all.  
'I   would  like  to  use  my  sabbatical  to  write  a  book  about  
you,'  I  said  after  I  gathered  my  courage,  knowing full  well  what  
the  answer  would  be.  
He  looked  pensive  and  serious  for  a   few  seconds  without  
saying  a  word.  
'What  is  so  important  that  you  want  to  write  about  me?'  he  
asked  with  a  lowered  voice.  
I   responded   that   a   lot   of  people   in   the   English-speaking   
world,  particularly  in America,  would  be  very  interested  to  hear  
his  message  about  life.  
'But  what  I  teach  is  not  my  message,'  he  replied  as  he  spread  
his  hands  outward  to  give  emphasis.  'I  am  simply  the  channel  
of    Yohannan  and  other  invisible  masters.'  
'Who  is  Yohannan?'  
Daskalos  went  on  to  explain  that  Yohannan  was  none  other  
than  Jesus'   disciple,  John  the  evangelist,  who  spoke  through  
Daskalos'  body.  
'Quite often  the  vibrations  of  his  presence  are  so  intense  that  
my  material  brain  has  a  hard  time  channeling  his  teachings.  In  

7 THE MAGUS OF STROVOLOS 
such   cases   I   just   leave   my   body   and   let   Yohannan   take   
complete  possession  of  it     while  I  sit  in  the  audience  listening  to  
the  talk.   Do  you  understand  now  why  I  should  not  get  any  
credit  for  the  teachings?'  
Daskalos  paused  for  a  moment  and  gazed  at  me  piercingly.  
'Fame  is  a  trap  in  our  spiritual  path,'  he  said,  as  if  to  warn  
himself  and  myself  of  the  dangers  lurking  in  publicity,  i  must  
remain  anonymous.'  
That  is  the  end  of  my  project  I  thought  and  began  resigning  
myself  to  this  realization.  But  before  I  completed  my  thought,  
Daskalos  surprised  me.  
'You  can  write  about  the  teachings  if  you  so  wish,  assuming  
that  I  do  not  get  the  credit,'  he  said  quietly.  I  was  delighted  and  
promised  that  I  would  guard  his  anonymity  as  much  as  I  could.  
The  name  Daskalos  is  after  all  a  common  title  in  Greek,  the  
manner  with  which  people  address  schoolmasters.  
i  am  very  happy  that  you  are  letting  me  write  about  your  
world,'  I  said  shortly.  'But  I  am  puzzled.  Why  me?  I  know  
that  so  far  you  have  refused  to  give  even  a  single  interview.'  
He  smiled  and  looked  at me with  intensity.  'Before  I  give  you  
an  answer  tell  me,  do  you  believe  in  reincarnation?'  I  was  taken  
aback  by  his  pointed  question  and  for  a  moment I  was  at  a  loss,  
not  knowing  what  to  say.   In  my  training  as  a  sociologist  I  
learned   to   be   a   skeptic   and   avoid   metaphysical   questions   
considered  to  be  unanswerable.  Such  questions,  we  were  led  to  
believe,  interfere  with  the  objectivity  and  detachment  necessary  
for  valid  observation.  
'I   have  no  basis  to  believe  or  disbelieve,'  I  said,  'but  I  am  
open   to   persuasion.'   I   mentioned   further   that   I   am   always   
impressed  with  the  eloquence  of  arguments  presented  in  favor  
of     reincarnation    throughout    the    ages    from    Plato    to    the    
Theosophists  and  Madame  Blavatsky.  
Daskalos  appreciated  my  answer  and  nodded  with  approval.  
He  then  proceeded  to  answer  my  question.  
'This   is   not   the   first   time   we   have   met,'   he   said   in   all   
sincerity.    'We    have    known    each    other    in    four   previous   
incarnations.  Our  meeting  in  this  life,'  he continued  as  I  noticed  
an  eerie  look  on  his  face,  while  I  must  have  appeared  perplexed  
and  incredulous,  'is  not  accidental  as  it  is  not  accidental  that  
you  have  a  keen  interest  in  politics  and  mysticism.  You  lived  in  

8 THE  MAGUS  OF  STROVOLOS  
India  at  a  time  when  I  was  a  yogi  and  we  knew  of  one  another.  
Your  major  concern  in  that  incarnation  was  to  play  the  role  of  
the  mediator  between  several  warring  tribes.  But  you  were  so  
inept,'  Daskalos  went  on  and  burst  into  laughter,  'that  in  spite  
of    your  good  intentions  you  caused  a  war  to  break  out.  
'During  the  time  of  Queen  Isabella  of Spain,'  he  said  further,  
'when   the   Spaniards   pushed   the   Moors   out   of   the   Iberian   
Peninsula,  you   were   again   in   the   midst  of  political   turmoil.   
Your  mother  was  Moorish  and  your  father  a  Spaniard.   You   
tried   to   mediate   between   the   two   warring   groups,    again    
unsuccessfully.  It  was  an  adventure  that  almost  cost  your  life.  
'Your  interest  in  mysticism  developed  in  Tibet  where  you  
incarnated  several  times.  Your  obsession  with  finding  the  Truth  
led   you   to   wander   from   one   lamasary  to   another.   In   your   
present  incarnation  your  lamasary  is  the  university  where  you  
now  teach.'  
With  that  last  remark  I  could  not  hide  a  smile.  The  notion  of  
the   University   of   Maine   as   my   present   lamasary   was   very   
amusing. 
'You  have  come  close  to  enlightenment  several  times  in  the  
past,'  Daskalos  went  on  as  he  concentrated  on  my  face,  'but  
you  habitually  turn  back  at  the  last  moment.'  
'In  what  way?'  
'Your   attention    gets    distracted    by    other   more    earthly    
considerations.   By  the  way,'  Daskalos   said  suddenly,   before   
giving  me  a  chance  to  digest  my  incarnational  history,  'have  I  
introduced  you  to  Iacovos?'  
The  young  man  who  had  been  listening  quietly  smiled  as  we  
were  introduced.  
5
Iacovos,'   Daskalos   announced   matter-of-factly,   as   if   to   
shock  me  even  further,  'is  four  thousand  years  old.'  
'Strange,'  I  said  humorously,  'he  seems  to  be  no  more  than  
twenty.' 
Daskalos  argued  that  he  and  Iacovos  were  'old  friends,'  their  
friendship  dating  thousands  of  years  back.  
'To  whom  can  I  tell  such  stories  without  being  pronounced  
insane?'  Daskalos  said  laughing  as  he  tapped  my  knee.  'Even  
some   of   us,'   he   went   on   as   he   turned   towards   his   young   
apprentice,   'in   spite   of   our   experiences   wonder   sometimes   
whether the powers we have are  real  or not.  He is only  nineteen  

9 THE MAGUS OF STROVOLOS 
now,'  Daskalos  said  as  he  turned  towards  me,  'and  he  often  
questions   the   reality   of   his   own   experiences.   I   had   doubts   
myself  at  that  age.'  
'Logic  sometimes  gets  in  our  way,'  Iacovos  murmured,  as  if  
thinking  aloud.  
'Logic,  logic  ..     .,'  Daskalos  reacted  and  shook  his  head  with  
impatience,  if  you  stick  to  logic  you  cannot  go  very  far.  What  
is    logic   other   than   the   conventional   way   of   thinking   at   a   
particular  time  and  place?  Our  concern  is  with  Logos,  Reason,  
Truth  which  are  beyond  time  and  space.'  
He   then   mentioned   that   each   night   he   and   some   of   his   
students   became   'invisible   helpers.'   They   carried   out   'exo-
matosis,'  that  is,  they  left  their  bodies  and  traveled  to  faraway  
places  'to  be  of  service.'  Those  capable  of  exomatosis  were  his  
most  advanced  disciples  who  had  put  on  the  'white  robe,'  a  
symbolic  uniform  implying  initiation  into  the  exclusive  inner  
circle. 
'With  my  invisible  helpers,'  Daskalos  said,  'we  go  all  over  
the  Middle  East,  including  Iran  and  Turkey.  In  our  work  there  
is   no  nationality,  no  religion,  no  race.'  
When  I  asked  how  exomatosis  is  possible,  Daskalos  replied  
that  every   human   being   has   three  bodies,   not  only  one,   as   
people  commonly  assume.  We  have,  he  said,  in  addition  to  our  
'gross  material  body,'  a  'psychic  body,'  the  body  of  sentiments,  
and  a  'noetic  body,'  the  body  which  expresses  our  mental  state.  
Each  of  the  three  bodies  lives  within  a  different  dimension  of  
existence,  the  gross  material  dimension,  the  psychic  dimension  
and  the  noetic  dimension.  The  three  bodies  express  our  'present  
personality,'   which   is   a   manifestation  of  our  inner  self,   the   
'permanent  personality.'  When  our  gross  material  body  dies  we  
continue  to  live  within  the  psychic  worlds  with  our  'psycho-
noetic  body.'   An  experienced  mystic,   according  to  him,  can  
leave  his  material  body  at  will,  travel  with  his  psychonoetic  
body   as   complete   self-consciousness   and   then   return   to   his   
material  body  fully  conscious  of the  experiences  he  had while  in  
exomatosis. 
Each    of   the   three    bodies,    Daskalos   went   on,   has   its   
corresponding  'etheric-double,'  the  energy  field  that  keeps  the  
three  bodies  alive  and  linked  to  one  another.  Etheric  vitality,  
which   makes   healing   possible,   is   the   cosmic   energy   which   

10 
THE  MAGUS  OF  STROVOLOS  
scientists  have  yet  to  discover.  This  energy  is  absorbed  by  our  
bodies  through  certain  psychonoetic  centers,   the  'chakras'  or  
'sacred  discs.'  
Daskalos  said  that  these  are  truths  that  someday  I  would  
experience  when  I  embark  on  the  path  for  the  research  of  truth.  
'It    is  better,'  he  continued  slowly,  'not  to  talk  about  such  
matters  publicly  because  people  get  scandalized.'  
I  mentioned  that  in  America  there  is  a  growing  interest  in  
mysticism  and  people  are  not  so  easily  scandalized.  
'Perhaps  it  is  so  in  America  but  not  here  in  Cyprus.'  
'I    see  what  you  mean,'   I  nodded,   realizing  that  Daskalos  
referred  to  the  various  attempts  on  the  part  of  the  local  church  
to   excommunicate  him.  
'Tell  me,'  Daskalos  said  abruptly,  'why  are  you  interested  in  
writing  this  book?'  
His  question  took  me   by   surprise   since  I   assumed  I   had   
already  explained  myself.  
'I   have  no  way  of  knowing,'  I  replied  with  determination,  
'whether  the  world  you  live  in  is  real  or  not.  But  I  must  confess  
I  am  fascinated  with  what  you  have  told  me  so  far  about  it.  I  
would  be  a  hypocrite  if  I  do  not  admit  that  my  ambition  is  to  
write  a  good  book  which  will  portray  as  accurately  as  possible  
the  world  as  you  experience  it.  1  also  want  to  learn  how  to  
proceed  to  have  similar  experiences  like  yourself.  I  am  ready  to  
follow  your   instructions   on   meditation   exercises   and   try   to   
understand  your  teachings  on  the  nature  of  reality.'  
'What   else?'   Daskalos   said   softly   and   looked   at   me   in   
earnest.  I  realized  he  found  my  answer  inadequate.  
'Well,'  I  said  somewhat  perplexed,  suspecting  what  Daskalos  
had    in    mind,    'in    the    event   that    I    evolve    and    acquire    
psychonoetic  powers  I  would  like  to  become  a  healer  myself  
and  be  of  service  to  my  fellow  man.'  
'Good!'  Daskalos  exclaimed,  and  leaned  back  in  his  chair  
with  a  satisfied  look  on  his  face.  'This  is  our  mission  in  life.  To  
be   of   service   to  our  fellow  man.   Remember,   the   harvest   is   
bountiful  but  few  are  the  harvesters.  You,'  he  went  on  and  
pointed  his  finger  at  me,  'with  your  knowledge  of  society  could  
be  of  special  service.  You  could  construct  beautiful  worlds  in  
which  men  could  live  in  peace  and  harmony.'  
'I'll   try   my   best,'   I   said   naively,   not   having   the   foggiest   

11 THE MAGUS OF STROVOLOS 
notion  what  Daskalos  meant  by  his  ultra-idealistic  utterance.  
He  went  on  to  say  that  the  whole  region  of  the  Middle  East  
is   plagued  with  violence  and  suffering  and  that  the  urgency  to  
act  is  more  pressing  than  ever.  Moral  standards,  he  said,  with  
sadness  in  his  face,  are  collapsing  everywhere  and  there  is  so  
much  savagery  and  injustice.  
When   I   went   home   that   evening   I   pondered   over   my   
encounter  with  Daskalos  which  seemed  to  have  defined  for  me  
the  nature  of  my  relationship  with   him  for  the  months  and  
years   to   come.   My   spontaneous   responses   to   his   questions   
clarified  in  my  mind  the  appropriate  methodological  procedure  
I  should  follow  in  studying  Daskalos'  world.  
Even    before    our    last    encounter    I    understood    that    a    
conventional   sociological  approach  to  the  study  of  Daskalos'  
circles  would  be  inappropriate.  Such  a  study,  I  thought,  would  
have  forced  me  to  raise  questions  at  the  exclusion  of  others  
which  appeared  to  me  much  more  significant  and  enticing.  I  
preferred  instead  to  become  a  participant  observer  in  the  fullest  
sense  of  the  word.   To  understand  Daskalos'  reality  I  had  to  
become  a  disciple  myself  and  try  to  observe  his  world  from  
within  his  experience.   I  decided  to   use  his  own  language  in  
conversing  with  him  without  any  preconceived  notions  on  the  
objective  validity  of  his  reality.   Instead  of  imposing  my  own  
theories   to   explain   Daskalos'   world   I   thought   it   proper   to   
follow  a  phenomenological  approach  and  let  him  explain  his  
own world  in  his own  language and categories of understanding. 
My  ambition  as  a  researcher,  therefore,  was  to  use  my  training  
in   field  research  and  observation  in  order  to  bring  to  the  surface  
of    social   consciousness  the  life,  work  and  world  view  of  an  
extraordinarily  gifted  spiritual  master.  

2 
Exorcising  the  Nazi  Spirits  
I  woke  up  early  in  the  morning  and  began  working  on  my  field  
notes.   I   was   not   to   see   Daskalos   until   four   o'clock   that   
afternoon  when   a   meeting  was  scheduled   with   his   students.   
Daskalos   told   me  the   day   before  that  he  could  not  see  me  
earlier  because  he  had  several  errands.  
At  about  eight o'clock  the  phone  rang.  It  was  Maro,  a  friend  
of    my  sister.  She  wanted  to  know  whether  I  would  be  willing to 
arrange  a  meeting  with  Daskalos  on  behalf  of  some  friends  of  
hers.   She   said   they  were  Jewish   and   had   just   arrived   from   
Israel.  Their daughter was having severe psychological problems. 
The  medical  doctors  could  do  nothing  and  they  had  resorted  to  
many  psychiatrists  but  to  no  avail.  The  girl,  I  was  told,  was  
quite   normal   until  one   night  when   she   dreamed  of  demons  
tormenting  her.  Since  then  she  heard  their  voices  and  saw  them  
in  her dreams.  She desperately needed  help because her situation 
was deteriorating.  This girl had come  to Cyprus with her mother 
to   visit  an  aunt.  Maro  asked  whether  it  would  be  possible  for  
me  to  arrange  a  meeting  with  Daskalos  that  very  day.  
After  several  phone  calls  I  managed  to  locate  Daskalos.  We  
made  an  appointment for  eleven  thirty.  By that  time, he  said,  he  
would  be  through  with  his  errands.  Maro  arrived  at  our  house  
with  her  friends  shortly  before  the  meeting  with  Daskalos.  She  
introduced  me  to  the  three  Jewish  women,  mother,  daughter  
and  aunt.  They  spoke  broken  English  and,  given  their  apparent  
uneasiness,  carrying  on  a  conversation  with  them  was  not  easy.  
The   girl   appeared   'normal'   but   I   noticed   deep   anxiety   and   
sadness  in  her  face.  
It   took  us  only  fifteen  minutes  to  drive  to  Daskalos'  house.  
Maro  did  not  come  with  us  because  she  said  she  was  petrified  
of    'these  matters.'  She  had  never  met  Daskalos  but  knew  of  his  
reputation  as  a  specialist  in  the  occult.  The  mere  thought  of  
him  filled  her  with  dread.  
12 

14 EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 
13 
Daskalos  was  with  Loizos,  one  of  his  close  students  who  was  
studying  medicine  at  the  University  of  Athens.  I  asked  the  three  
women  to  introduce  themselves.  Then   I   briefly  explained  to  
Daskalos  the  nature  of  our  visit.  He  made  himself  comfortable  
in   his  armchair  and  looked  at  the  girl  intensely.  
'You  have  a  talisman  on  you,'  he  said,  'right  at  the  heart.  It  
is   a  six-pointed  star.'  
I  saw  the  faces  of  all  three  of  the  women  lighting  up.  The  
girl's   mother,   in   her   heavily   accented   English,   noted   that   
underneath  her  daughter's  dress,  at  the  spot  where  Daskalos  
mentioned,   there   was,   in   fact,   a   talisman   in   the   shape   of   
David's  star  made  for  her  daughter  by  a  Jewish  rabbi.  This  
demonstration    of    psychic    power    by    Daskalos    apparently    
established  in   their  eyes   his  credibility  as   a  healer.  He  then  
asked  Hadas,  the  girl,  to  describe  to  him  what  happened.  With  
the  help  of  her  mother  and  aunt  she  explained  that  whenever  
'they'  come  she  felt  that  they  took  her  soul  away  and  that  her  
body  was  dead.  Whenever  this  happened  she  experienced  pains  
in   her  stomach  and  in  the  back  of  her  head.  
'I   am  abnormal,'  she  concluded,  'these  demons  will  not  let  
me  rest  for  a  single  moment.'  
'How  can  you  say  you  are  abnormal,'  Daskalos  interjected,  
'when  you  explain  to  me  what  happens  to  you  in  such  a  lucid  
and  comprehensible  manner?'  
'This   is   what   her   mother   believes,'   said   the   aunt   with   
excitement.  'It  is  all  in  her  imagination.'  
I    noticed    that    Daskalos    was    not    impressed    with    this    
diagnosis   of    the   girl's    predicament   and    continued   asking   
questions. 
'Did  you  ever  ask  these  spirits  who  they  were  and  what  they  
wanted  from  you?'  
'No,  I  did  not,'  Hadas  replied.  
'How  old  are  you?'  
'Twenty-six.'   Actually   she   did  not  look  to  me  more  than  
twenty. 
'What  is  your  religion?'  
'Jewish.' 
'Close  your  eyes,  please.'  She  apparently  did  not  understand  
what   Daskalos   said   and   her   aunt   interpreted   his   words   in   
Hebrew.  Hadas  showed  eagerness  to  cooperate  and  closed  her  

14 
EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 14 
eyes  while  Daskalos  focused  on  her  face.  In  a  few  seconds  she  
opened  her  eyes  and  Daskalos  began  to  talk  again.  
if   you  want  me  to  help  you,'  he  said,  'you  must  tell  me  
whether  you  genuinely  believe  in  God  or  not.'  
'I   do,  i  do,'  the  girl  replied  in  earnest.  
'Good!   I  could  not  have  helped  you  otherwise.'  Daskalos  
then  offered  his  diagnosis  of  the  problem.  
'Your daughter,'  he  said  to  the  mother,  'is  not  suffering  from  
demonic  possession.'   Then   he  looked   at   me   and   continued,   
'Neither   is   she   possessed   by   elementals.'   Finally   addressing   
himself  to  Hadas  he  said,  'Those  you  see  and  whose  voices  you  
hear  tormenting  you  are  not  illusions.  They  are  human  beings.  
They  are  Nazis.'  I  saw horror expressed  in  the  faces  of  the  three  
Jewish   women.   'They  are,'   Daskalos   continued,   'two  spirits,  
husband   and   wife,   who   died   during   the   bombardment   of   
Hamburg  by  the  Allies.  They  took  part  in  the  Holocaust  and  
physically   tortured    a    great   number   of   Jews.    When    they    
departed  to  the  other  world  they  carried  with  them  their  hatred  
for  Jews.  So  they  managed  to  get  possession  of  you  at  a  time  
when  their  vibrations  and  yours  were  on  the  same  frequency.  
The   husband   took   possession   of   your   solar   plexus   and   the   
woman  the chakra  of  your  genitals.  But they  have  not  been  able  
to   take  over  the  chakra  of  your  brain.  They  have  managed  to  
send  to  the  asylum  four  other Jewish  women.  But  you  need  not  
be  afraid  because  today  we  will  cut  the  connection  and  send  
them   away.   Since   your   religion   is   Jewish   we   will   do   the   
exorcism  in  accordance  with  the  Jewish  Cabbala.'  
Daskalos  then  asked  Loizos  to  go  upstairs  to  the  bedroom  
and  fetch  the  White  Eagle,  a  small  statue  Daskalos  kept  at  his  
bedside.  It was Daskalos'  symbol  of  white  magic,  a  very  ancient  
mystical  symbol,  I  found  out  later.  Loizos  was  also  instructed  
to   bring  along  a  silver  six-pointed  star,  a  gift  to  Daskalos  from  
a Jewish  mystic.  In  its  center  there  were  inscriptions  in  Hebrew  
of    the  Ten  Commandments.  Daskalos  told  Loizos  that  on  his  
return  to  the  living  room  he  should  have  his  hands  crossed  over  
his  chest  holding  on  one  hand  the  White  Eagle  and  on  the  other  
the  six-pointed  star.  He  also  told  Loizos  not  to  utter  a  word  
while   holding   the  two  objects   in   that  fashion.   Loizos   went   
upstairs   and  Daskalos   began   his  preparations.   He  first  lit  a  
white  candle  and  filled  a  glass  of  water  which  he  placed  on  the  

14 EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 
15 
table  next  to  the  candle.  Then  he  got  a  piece  of  white  paper  and  
markers   of   various   colors.   He   went   into   the   Sanctum   and   
brought  back  the  Unpointed  Sword,  kissed  it     and  placed  it     over  
the  paper.  When  Loizos  returned,  looking  somber  and  silent  
just  as  he  had  been  told,  Daskalos  took  the  statue,  placed  it  
next  to  the  candle,  and  held  the  six-pointed  star  with  his  other  
hand. 
'Come  forward,'  he  said  to  the  girl.  She  stood  up  and  came  
close  to  the  table.  
'Can  you  read  Hebrew?'  Daskalos  asked.  
'Yes,'  said  the  girl  softly.  Then  Daskalos  extended  his  arm  
and  held  the  six-pointed  star  firmly  in  front  of  her  face.  He  
asked  her  to  read  aloud  the Ten  Commandments.  After  she  had  
finished,  he   gave  her  the  six-pointed  star  and  told  her  to  sit  
down  and  hold  it  with  her  right  hand  tightly  over  her  heart.  
'Repeat  after  me,'  Daskalos  commanded,  'Shalom  Alehem,  
Shalom  Alehem.'  
'Shalom  Alehem,  Shalom  Alehem,'  the  girl  repeated  it  in  a  
broken  voice.  I  noticed  a  look  of  awe  in  the  eyes  of  the  other  
two  women  upon  hearing  the  Hebrew  words.  
Daskalos  then  sat  in  front  of  his  desk,  kissed  the  Unpointed  
Sword,  and  asked  Hadas  to  do  likewise.  Then  he  asked  her  to  
begin   a   prayer  she   knew  in   Hebrew.   While   she  recited  her  
prayer,    Daskalos    continued    to    murmur    'Shalom    Alehem,    
Shalom  Alehem'   and   using   the   Unpointed  Sword  and  a  red.  
marker  he  began  to  draw  several  lines  that  appeared  to  me  like  
several  six-pointed  stars,  one  almost  on  top  of  the  other.  His  
movements  were  slow  and  determined.  After  a  few  minutes  he  
stopped  murmuring  'Shalom  Alehem'  and  began  talking  slowly  
while  still  drawing  the  red  lines.  I  could  not  make  out  what  he  
was   saying.   I   could   only   see   his   lips   moving.   Loizos   was   
standing  behind   Daskalos   and   joined   in   murmuring  monot-
onously    'Shalom    Alehem'    while    his    eyes    were   fixed   on   
Daskalos'  drawings.  Hadas  continued  her  prayer,  held  the  six-
pointed  star  firmly  against  her  chest,  and  focused  her  gaze  on  
the  flame  as  Daskalos  had  instructed  her  to  do.  I  noticed  the  
other  two  women  were  sitting  on  the  couch  next  to  each  other  
holding  firmly  each  other's   hand   and  watching  with   watery   
eyes  what  was  going  on.  It  was  an  emotional  scene.  At  that  
moment  Daskalos  appeared  more  like  a  rabbi  than  a  Greek  

14 
EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 16 
Cypriot  medicine man.  By  following Jewish  mystical  procedures  
he  apparently  eased  the  tension  of  the Jewish  women,  making  it  
easier   for   them   to   participate   meaningfully   in   the   healing   
session.  I  suppose  had  the  girl  been  a  Muslim  he  would  have  
followed  Sufi  methods  to  accomplish  the  same  task.  
'No,  you  are  not  Christians.  You  are  swine.  No  pity on you,' 
he  said  in  English  with  a  loud  severe  voice,  while  concentrating  
on  the  flame  and  moving  his  hands  around  it.  The  flame  was  
behaving   in   a   rather   strange   manner.   I   had   noticed   this   
procedure  on   several  occasions.   Daskalos  would  concentrate  
his  eyes  on  the  candle  and  from  a  distance,  usually  two  to  three  
feet  away,  he  would  move  his  palm  rapidly  left  and  right  in  a  
trembling   fashion.   As   he   was   doing   this,   the   flame   would   
become  thin  and  elongated,  black  smoke  flying  away  from  its  
tip.  Then   it  would  shrink   and  vacillate  violently.  The   flame   
appeared to respond to Daskalos' hand movements. Subsequently 
he  would  bring  his  palm  forward  and  pass  it  over  the  flame  as  
if   trying  to  grasp  it.  He  would  then  open  his  fist  right  over  his  
drawings  as  if  throwing  something  onto  the  paper,  murmuring  
words  no  one  could  hear.  
Daskalos  shook  his  head  disapprovingly  while  focusing  and  
working  on  the  candle's  flame.  'They  are  stubborn,'  he  said,  as  
if   to. inform  his  audience  of  the  difficulties  he  was  facing.  'No,  
you  are  not  Christians,'  he  repeated  loudly  and  severely,  'I     am  
Jewish  now!  Shalom  Alehem.'  
Daskalos   spent   about   twenty   minutes   working   with   the   
flame,  a  rather  long  period  in  comparison  with  other  times  that  
I  had  witnessed  similar  procedures.  When  he  stopped  1  saw  an  
expression  of  relief  and  satisfaction  on  his  face.  I  also  observed  
that  the  moment  he  stopped  working  with  the  flame  it  became  
still. 
Hadas  continued  to  repeat  her  prayer  and  Daskalos  folded  
the  white  paper  in  the  shape  of  a  triangle.  He  then  placed  the  
edge   of   the   folded   paper   over   the   flame,   setting   it   on  fire.  
Loizos,  who  was  still  murmuring  'Shalom  Alehem,'  took  the  
burning  paper  from  Daskalos'  hands  and  placed  it  outside  in  a  
special   container   until   it   burned   completely.   Daskalos   then   
asked  the  girl  to  put  out  the  flame  herself  and  then  drink  of  the  
'magnetized'  water.  
'You   have   nothing   to   worry   about   from   now   on,'   he   

14 EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 
17 
declared   authoritatively.   'They   can   no   longer   harm   you   or   
anyone  else.  Both  of  them  are  now  gone  to  a  place  where  they  
can  rest  in  peace  until  they  come  to  their  senses.  You  may  still  
feel   heavy   in   the   head   but   do   not   worry.   These   are   the   
aftereffects  that  will  gradually   go   away.   But  they  can  never  
again  take  possession  of  your  aura.  They  may  try  to  affect  you  
telepathically  but  they  cannot  take  possession  of  you.  If  you  
feel  them  near  you,  just  say  the  prayer  you  have  been  saying  
here  and  concentrate  on  the  flame  of  the  white  candle.  The  
moment  you  do  that  they  will  be  scared  and  will  go  away.'  
Then  Daskalos  returned  to  his  armchair.   He  looked  tired.  
Little   Marios,   his   three-year-old   grandson,   who   had   in   the   
meantime  come  into  the  room,  climbed  on  Daskalos'  lap  and  
rested   his   head   on   his   grandfather's   chest.   Daskalos   began   
stroking the  boy's  head.  After  a  few  moments  of  silence  he  said  
to   the  three  women  who  sat  there  looking  overwhelmed,  'It  is  
amazing,  is  it  not?  People  carry  their  hatreds  even  beyond  the  
grave.' 
Hadas'  aunt,  who  was  sitting  next  to  me,  leaned  close  to  my  
right   ear   and   asked   in   a   low   voice   how   much   they   owed   
Daskalos  for  his  services.  Apparently  this  was  what  they  were  
waiting  to  hear  before  departing.  I  somehow  expected  it  and  
said  to  the  women  in  a  half  serious,  half  joking  tone,  'Why  
don't  you  ask  him?'  Then  I  explained  to  Daskalos  what  we  
were   talking  about.   'You  don't  owe   me   anything,'  was   the   
standard   response.   'Do   you   remember  the   case   in   the   Old   
Testament   of   the   Syrian   king,'    Daskalos   continued,   'who   
suffered  from  leprosy  and  was  cured  by  the  Hebrew  prophet?'  
The  Jewish  lady  was  apologetic  for  her  ignorance  of  the  Old  
Testament.  So  Daskalos  briefly  explained.  
'When  the  Syrian  king  asked how  much  he  owed  the  prophet  
his  reply  was  "Nothing.  The  grace  of  the  Lord  is  not  paid  with  
money."  But  one  of  his  students  got  greedy.  So  when  the  king  
left  with  his  entourage,  this  disciple  followed  them  and  told  the  
king  that  the  prophet  had  changed  his  mind.  The  king  then  
offered  him  gold.  But  the  prophet  saw  in  his  own  way  what  
had  happened  and  when  the  student  came  back  he  told  him,  
"The  leprosy  of  the  king  is  on  you."  And  the  disciple  did,  in  
fact,  get  leprosy.  We  cannot  accept  money  for  something which 
is   not  ours.'  

14 
EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 18 
'Are  you   saying,  Daskale,'   I  interjected,  'that  the  prophet  
cursed  his  student?'  
'No,  of  course  not,'  Daskalos  replied,  'the  prophet  was  good  
and  loved  his  student.  But  he  saw  what  was  coming,  It  was  the  
disciple's  greediness  that  caused  him  to  get  the  leprosy,  not  the  
prophet.' 
'I     don't    understand,'    Daskalos    remarked    after    a    few    
moments'  pause,  'how  a  psychotherapist  could  ask  for  money  
for  something  which  is  not  his,  the  life-giving  ether  of  the  Holy  
Spirit.  You  have  been  freely  given,  you  should  freely  give,'  he  
concluded. 
After  this  short  lesson  the  three  women  stood  up,  thanked  
Daskalos,  and  we  all  left.  As  we  were  coming  out  of  the  house  
the   aunt   inquired   once    again   whether   indeed   they   owed   
nothing.   For  some   reason   it  sounded   unbelievable  to  her.   I   
reminded  her  of  the  story  in  the  Old  Testament,  and  got  into  
the  car.  
A  week  later  I  paid  the  Jewish  ladies  a  visit.  I  wanted  to  
know  how  Hadas  felt  after  her  encounter  with  Daskalos.  I  had  
already   been   informed   by   Maro   that   Hadas   had   stopped   
hearing  the  voices  since  the  day of  the  meeting  with  Daskalos.  I  
was  also  told  that  she  had  gone  out  with  a  young  man  to  a  
disco  and  was  no  longer  afraid  to  walk  in  the  streets  by  herself.  
'Everybody  was  very  happy,'  Maro  said.  
It   was  the  day  before  she  was  to  return  to  Israel  with  her  
mother  that  I  saw  Hadas  again.  Unlike  the  last  time  I  had  seen  
her,    she   was   quite   talkative   and   willing   to   describe   her   
experiences  to  me  in  more  detail.  Her  mother  and  aunt  were  
present.  All  three  of  them  seemed  pleased.  
'Hadas,'   I   asked,   'can   you   describe   to   me   what   exactly   
happened  to  you?'  With  occasional  help  from  her  mother  and  
aunt,  Hadas  began  to  narrate  her  ordeal.  
'My problem  started  four  years  ago  when  my  mother  was  on  
a  trip   to  Romania.   One   night  I   went  out  with   my  friends.  
Something  happened  between  me  and  my  boyfriend  and  1  left  
. him.  I  went  home  and  took  a  shower.  When  I  went  to  bed  I  felt  
something  entering  my  head.  I  was  very  upset.  I  felt  changed.  I  
went  to  a  doctor  who  told  me  that  it  was  only  my  nerves.  He  
gave  me  pills.  When  my  mother  returned  from  Romania  she  
took  me  to  many  doctors.   All   of  them   repeated  that  I  was  

14 EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 19 
suffering  from  my  nerves.  I  couldn't  sleep  even  though  I  took  
many pills.  Then  I  went  to  a  rabbi.  He  told  me  that  I  must  pray  
because  something  like  a  demon  had  gotten  into  me.  I  started  
praying  and  every  morning  I  would  vomit  everything  I  ate.'  
'But  you  still  did  not  hear  any  voices?'  I  inquired.  
'No,  at first I  didn't.  But  I  dreamt  that  I  lived  in  two  kinds  of  
worlds,  in  this  world  and  in  another  world  underground.  A  
rabbi  told  me  that  after  forty  days  I  would  vomit  something  
very  big and yellow,  mixed  with  other  colors.  He  said  that  after  
this  I  would  be  myself  again,  and  this  is  what  happened.  I  was  
vomiting  every  day  and  the  fortieth  day  I  vomited  a  lot  and  felt  
well   again.   I   went   out   with   my   friends   and   had   a   new   
boyfriend.  But  once  more  something  happened  between  us  and  
we broke  it   off.  I  was  very  upset.  This  time  it    was  more  difficult  
for  me  because  all  my  friends  were  married  and  I  was  very  
lonely.  I  remember  I  was  sleeping  on  the  sofa  when  something  
entered  inside  my  body.  It  began  in  the  legs  and  then  entered  in  
my  stomach.   I   felt   it  penetrating   me   but   did  not  hear  any  
voices.  After  that  it     began  to  torture  me.  I  went  to  many  rabbis  
and  told  them  what  happened.  "You  are  only  upset.  Forget  it,"  
they  said.  I  couldn't  forget  it.  It  was  hurting  too  much.  After  
that   1   tried   to   convince   myself   that   my   problem   was   only   
psychological  and  that  I  should  forget  it,  and  then  I  went  to  
sleep.  But  now  I  began  to  hear  voices  right  here  in  the  lower  
part  of  my  neck  and  then  they  moved  inside  my  head.  The  
voices  told  me  in  my  dream  "In  the  world  you  are  in,   you   
cannot  have  a  life  like  others.  We  will  keep  you  away  from  
your  world.  We  will  torture  you  and  make  you  go  mad.  We  
will  keep  you  in  our  world  and  get  you  married  here."  '  
'They  got  you  married  in  the  other  world?'  I  asked.  
'Yes   they   did.   They   married   me   to   a   tall   man   with   a   
mustache.  I  had  never  met  him  before.  If  I  see  him  again  I  will  
recognize  him.  I  know  him  so well!  And  they  told  me,  "Because  
we  forced  you  to  marry  in  our world  you  cannot  marry  in  your  
world."  Every  morning  when  I  would  wake  up  I  would  go  to  
my  mother's  bed  and  ask  her,  "Please  help  me.  Something  very  
strange  happened  to  me.  Can  you  help  me?"  She  couldn't.  No-
body could help  me!  I felt the voices  were destroying my  mind. I 
didn't know what to do.  I went to another psychiatrist.  "There is 
nothing  wrong  with  you,"  he  said.  "It  is  only  in  your  mind."  '  

14 
EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 20 
Hadas'  mother  mentioned  that  her  daughter  was  sent  to  a  
mental  institution  from  which  she  ran  away  after  a  week.  
'They  gave  me  very  strong  pills,'  Hadas  continued.  'My  back  
began  to  hurt,   I   had  trouble  moving  about,   and  the  voices  
tormented   me   continuously.   My   mother   then   took   me   to   
another   psychiatrist   who   told   me   that   I   was   normal   like   
everyone   else.    I   visited   this   psychiatrist   regularly,   but   he   
couldn't  help  me.'  
'Did  you,'  I  asked,  'describe  your  situation  to  the  doctor  the  
way  you  are  describing  it  to  me  now?'  
'No.  I  only  talk  about  it  to  people  who  are  open  to  these  
matters.  I  went  to  the  rabbi  again.  "If  you  don't  stop  thinking  
about  it,"  he  said,  "you  will  go  mad."  I  couldn't  stop.  Every  
night  they  would  come   to   me.  They  wanted   me  to  commit  
suicide.  Now  I  no  longer  hear  them.  I  feel  that  my  body  is  free.  
But  I  am  not  yet  completely  well.  My  head  seems  empty.'  
I  reminded  Hadas  of  what  Daskalos  had  said,  that  she  was  
bound   to   have   some   aftereffects   which   would   gradually   go   
away.  Her  mother  added  that  she  saw  a  big  difference  in  her  
daughter.  The  others  agreed.  I  thanked  them  for  their  time  and  
wished  them  farewell.  My  next  task  was  to  see  Daskalos  and  
hear  his  version  of  the  story.  
The  next  morning  I  took  the   bus   and  went   to  Strovolos.  
When  I  arrived  I  noticed  that  Daskalos  had  some  visitors  so  I  
waited  in  the  Stoa  until  they  left.  Later  I  went  to  the  living  
room  where  I  found  Daskalos  waiting.  When  I  mentioned  to  
him  that  I  had  seen  the Jewish  girl  and  that  she  was  quite  well,  
he  showed  no  surprise  or  particular  interest,  i  know,'  he  said  
matter  of  factly.  Daskalos  was  a  healer  sure  of  his  craft  and  he  
was   in   no   need   of   reassurance   about   the   effects   of   his   
intervention.  When  he  said  to  Hadas,  'You  are  cured,'  he  was  
not  simply  trying  to  impress  her  and  create  in  her  a  favorable  
psychological   state   for   her   recovery.   Daskalos   himself   was   
absolutely  convinced  that  objectively  speaking  she  was  cured,  
that   the   spirits   had   been   exorcised   and   therefore   she   had   
nothing  to  fear.  I  was  quite  certain  that  Daskalos  was  not  play-
acting. 
I  did  not elaborate  on  the  details  of  my  interview  with  Hadas  
when  speaking  to  Daskalos.  I  just  mentioned  that  I  had  seen  
her  and  that  she  was  well.  Now  I  wanted  Daskalos  to  explain  

14 EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 
21 
to   me  the  details  of  the  exorcism.  
'It    is  a  case,'  Daskalos  began,  'which  I  have  encountered  on  
several  occasions.  So  far  six  or  seven  Jews,  men  and  women,  
have   come   from   Israel   so   that   I   could   free   them   from   
"possession."  '   Then,   leaning   back   in   his   chair,   Daskalos   
continued.  'In  this  case  we  are  dealing  with  humans  who  died  
and   who,   during   their   lives,   had   relentless   hatred   against   
certain  people  or  situations  and  who  failed  to  make  a  complete  
transition  to  the  psychic  world.  Instead  they  found  themselves  
oscillating  between  the  etheric  of  the  gross  material  world  and  
the  psychic  world.  They  thus  found  themselves  in  a  position  
that  allowed  them  to  come  in  touch  with  this  world.  The  way  
they  do  it  is  by  taking  possession  of  a  human  being  who  lives  
here   on   Earth   and   has   certain   phobias   or   is   in   a   certain   
psychological   state   that   permits   these   spirits   to   enter   the   
person.' 
'But  as  I  understand  it,'  I  added,  'possession  can  also  happen  
by  a  demon  or  an  elemental.'  
'Of  course!'  Daskalos  exclaimed.  'But  possession,  be  it  by  a  
demon,  an  elemental,  or  a  departed  human,  can  take  place  only  
if    there   are   reasons,   that   is,   when   the   individual   vibrates   
analogously  with  whoever  or  whatever  tries  to  enter  him.  In  
other  words  the  person  must  himself  have  the  predisposition  to  
hurt.' 
'Are  you  suggesting,  Daskaie,  that  the Jewish  girl  had  such  a  
predisposition?' 
'That   girl   had   certain   phobias   that,   had   they   been   left   
unchecked,    could    have    grown    and    hurt    certain    people.    
Therefore,  for  possession  to  take  place,  the  sperm  of  something  
similar  must  exist  in  the  one  to  be  possessed.  These  Nazis  tried  
gradually  and  in  stages  to  get  possession  of  the  body  of  this  
girl,  and  they  succeeded.  These  spirits  were  pushing  her  to  self-
destruction.   You   see   they   were   not   elementals   of  her   own   
making  that  left  her  and  then  came  back  to  her.  Nor  were  they  
elementals  of  black  magic  sent  to  her  by  someone  who  wanted  
to   harm  her.  So,  as  you  see,  possession  can  be  by  demons,  by  
humans that  have departed,  or  by  elementals.  The  most  difficult  
type  of  possession  to  cope  with  is  by  departed  humans.  They  
have  a  peculiar  persistence.  It  is  not  easy  to  send  them  away.  
And  you  cannot  destroy  or  dissolve  them.   They  are  eternal  

14 
EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 22 
beings  and  cannot  be  destroyed.  That's  where  the  difficulty  lies.  
For  example,  I  can  and  I  have  the  right  to  destroy  and  dissolve  
an  elemental,  no  matter  how  powerful  and  terrifying  it     may  be.  
In   this  case  did  you  notice  the  persistence  of  those  spirits?'  
Apparently   Daskalos   expected   me   to   give   an   affirmative   
response,  forgetting  for  a  moment  that  I  was  not  a  clairvoyant  
like  himself  and  could  not  notice  what  he  was  seeing.  So  I  must  
have  sounded  idiotic  to  him  when  my  reply  was,  'Notice  what,  
Daskale?' 
'Did  you  not  notice  that  they  refused  to  leave  her?  I  would  
get  them  out  of  her  and  then  they  would  return.  I  had  a  hard  
time  passing  them  through  fire.'  
is   that  why  the  flame  behaved  in  such  a  strange  manner?'  I  
asked. 
'Yes.  I  was  trying  to  pass  them  through  the  element  of fire so 
that  I  could  isolate  them  and  then  thrust  them  into  Erevos.'  
'To  where?'  I  asked  in  surprise.  I  had  never  heard  of  such  a  
word  before.  
'To    Erevos,'    he    said    emphatically,    it    is    a    form    of    
psychonoetic  abyss  which  is  not  punishment  but  a  necessary  
condition    similar,    I    would    say,    to    oblivion    where    their    
memories    will    be    erased    so    that    when    they    return    to    
consciousness  they  will  not  remember  anything.  You  will  see  
that  what  separates  the  various  worlds,  the  etheric  of  the  gross  
material,  the  psychic  and  the  noetic,  is  the  veil  of  Erevos  or  
abyss.  When  one  enters  there  one  ceases  to  remember,  reflects  
no   impressions,   yet  one   knows  that  one  exists.   Quite  often  
human  beings  enter there  during  deep  sleep.  The  ancient  Greeks  
called  it  "The  Dregs  of  the  Water."  It  is  a  necessary  condition  
to   force  human  spirits  that  vibrate  satanically,  so  to  speak,  to  
forget.' 
'But  Karma,'  I  said,  'will  not  forget.'  
'No,   of   course   not.   They   will   come   down   to   get   their   
experiences  and  pay  their  debts.  Erevos  is  just  an  expression  of  
Divine  Mercy.'  
'So,'  Daskalos  continued,  'I  tried  to  confine  them  in  Erevos.  
Now  they  are  in  a  state  of  deep  sleep.  They  don't  have  the  
desire   and   they   don't   have   the   power   to   harm   anybody.   
Therefore,   the   Jewish   girl   has   nothing   more   to   fear.   But,   
because   they   stayed   within   her   for   such   a   long   time,   they   

14 EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 23 
brought  about  a  certain  amount  of  turbulence  in  her  subcon-
scious.  There  are  still  memories  in  her  of  what  they  had  done.  
Now,  you  may  ask,  could  I  not  have  brought  her  into  such  a  
state  that  she  could  forget  everything?  It  would  have  been  very  
dangerous.  She  must  gradually  replace  those  memories  herself.  
And  she  is  now  in  a  position  to  defend  herself  and  to  realize  
that  it  was  they  who  created  these  pseudo-elementals  in  her.  
Now,  had  I  uprooted  these  memories  one  by  one,  I  might  have  
disturbed  her  personality.'  
'So  what  you  are  saying,  Daskale,'  I  remarked,  'is  that  this  
girl   may   hear   voices   again   but   in   that   case   they   will   be   
elementals,  left  over  from  her  possession.  And  the  prayer  you  
asked   her   to   say   is   to   dissolve   such   elementals   herself   the   
moment  she  feels  them  near  her.'  
'Exactly!  That  is  why  I  gave  her  a  method  which  she  can  
apply  to  dissolve  these  pseudo-elementals.'  
'It    is  a  form  of  autosuggestion,'  I  noted.  
'Precisely.  This  is  what  it  is.   But  what  is  autosuggestion?  
Self-conscious    construction    of    elementals    for    a   particular   
purpose.   Therefore,   that   girl   has   a   way   to   cure   herself   
completely  and  at  her  own  pace.  Jesus  once  said  that  when  we  
notice  weeds  growing  in  a field where  we  had  just planted  good  
seed,  we  should  not  uproot  the  weeds  right  away.  We  must  
wait  until  the  good  seed  matures.'  
'Daskale,'  I  said,  'you  were  carrying  on  a  conversation  with  
those  spirits.  And  you  said  certain  things  such  as  "You  are  not  
Christians,  you  are  swine."  Did  you  say  anything  else?'  
'Yes,  a  lot  of  things,  through  thought.  I  said  those  words  in  
English,  not  for  the  spirits,  since  I  could  communicate  with  
them  mentally,  but  so  that  the  subject,  the  Jewish  girl,  would  
understand  how  I  characterize  them.  Do  you  understand  now?  
I  was  working  on  both  sides.'  
'What  else  did  you  talk  about?'  I  then  asked.  
'One  of  them  said,  "You  are  a  Christian.  What  do  you  care  
about   the  Jews?   They   are   enemies   of   Christianity.   We   are   
Christians."  I  told  them,  "You  are  not  Christians  because  you  
trampled   underfoot   all   Christian   values.?   "We   are!"   they   
insisted.   I  noticed  that  in  a  past  incarnation  they  had  been  
members  of  a  fanatical  Protestant  sect.  
'So,'  Daskalos  continued,  'I  then  brought  those  two  into  a  

14 
EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 24 
situation  which  would  make  them  realize  that,  not  only  are  
they  not  Christians,  but  they  are  swine,  like  those  spirits  that  
Jesus  sent  into  the  herd  of  pigs  in  order  to  destroy  them.'  
'When  you  said,  Daskale,  that  you  thrust  them  into  Erevos,  
did  you  mean  you  created  angelic  elementals  that  escorted  them  
there?' 
'Exactly.' 
'And  in  order  to  do  that,'  I  continued,  'did  you  have  to  pass  
them  through  the  element  of  fire?'  
'Yes,  of  course.  And  I  had  to  pass  through  fire  myself,  as  
consciousness,   that   is,   so   that   I   could   bring   them   into   a   
hypnotic  state  and  dress  them  with  Erevos.  Now  the  Erevos  
that  they  got  into  is  triadic.  First,  it  is  the  etheric  Erevos  which  
they  cannot  break  through  and  thus  descend  down  to  the  gross  
material   plane.   Second,   it   is   the   psychic   Erevos   which   will   
create  the  analogous  psychic  conditions  for  their  sobering  up,  
that  is,  the  awakening  within  them  of  what  we  call  conscience.  
And,  third,  the  noetic  Erevos  which  will  calm  them  down  and  
put  them  under  the  influence  of  reason  so  that  they  become  
conscious  of  the  evilness  of  their  thoughts  and  actions.  Had  I  
thrown  them  into  the  Erevos  of  total  forgetfulness,  they  would  
not  have  received  any  benefits.  I  put  them  into  the  Erevos  of  
forgetting   particular   incidents   and   episodes,   but   kept   them   
awake  in  terms  of  conditions,  so  that  conscience  may  work  on  
them.  I  replaced  the  vibrations  of  hatred,  antipathy  and  so  on  
with  the  vibrations  of  compassion,  and,  if  not  love,  at  least  
tolerance.  Therefore  those   two  will   be  working  through  the  
elementals  that  I  sent  inside  them.  You  see  it  was  not  just  a  
question  of  helping  the Jewish  girl,  but  also  the  two  Nazis.  So  I  
planted  within  them  an  elemental  like  a  punishing  angel,  which  
will  not  really  punish  them  for  the  sake  of  punishment,  but  
rather   an   elemental   which   will   awaken   in   them   their   own   
situation.  Do  you  understand  now what  is  happening?  I  dressed  
them   in   their   thoughts   with   an   elemental   which   has   three   
dimensions  in  terms  of  vibrations.  And  the  first  dimension,  as  I  
told  you,  is  the etheric  so  that  it    will  not  permit them  to  possess  
another  human  organism,  which  is  done  usually  through  the  
liver and the spleen. That's where they enter. In the psychonoetic 
Erevos  specific  incidents  will  be  forgotten  but  the  conditions  
will  not  be  forgotten.'  

14 EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 25 
'What  does  that  mean,  Daskale?'  I  asked.  
'In  other  words,'  Daskalos  answered  quickly,  'the  memory  
that  "I  am  an  evil  person  because  I  hated,  I  tried  to  kill  another  
person,  I  tried  to  obliterate  and  destroy  another  person"  will  
remain.  And  there  were  specific  episodes  with  places,  names,  
circumstances,   and   so   on.   Those   we   now   set   aside   in   the   
psychic  and  noetic  Erevos  and  we  turn  the  roles  around.  In  
their  thought  they  now  become  the  persecuted  instead  of  the  
persecutors.  They  will  be  the  ones  who  will  want  to  protect  
themselves  from  others  who  are  trying  to  harm  them.  You  see  I  
turn  things  around.  This  is,  after  all,  what  Karma  does  day  and  
night.  They  don't  remember  details  of  who  they  are.  They  just  
live vicariously,  like  a  child  who  goes  to  the  cinema  and  then  in  
his  dreams  he  sees  himself  being  the  hero,  doing  this  and  that.  
He   has   certain   experiences   and   then   he  wakes   up   without   
remembering  persons  that  he  thought  were  himself.  You  see  a  
characteristic  of  human  nature  is  that  people  identify  with  the  
role  of  those  they  sympathize  with  or  fear.  So  in  this  case  I  
removed  the  memory  that  they  were  Germans  fighting Jews  so  
that  other  intense  thoughts  and  emotions  of  nationalism  will  
not  be  there.  Instead  I  placed  within  them  an  elemental  which  
with  time  will  transform  the  persecutor  into  the  persecuted.  
The  persecutor  is  not  a  real  one  but  an  elemental.  That is  why  I  
call   it   a   punishing   angel.   It   will    awaken   in   them   their   
consciences  so  that  they  will  be  able  to  differentiate  between  
good  and  evil,  to  be  able  to  develop  the  meaning  of  the  good.  
That  is  how  Karma  works.'  
'It    seems,'  I  added,  'that  they  are  in  a  kind  of  purgatory.'  
'That's  it.  I  created  the  circumstances  which  will  lead  them  
to    the   purgatory   which   they,   themselves,   have   created.   The   
Divine  Plan  will  place  them  there.  I  am  not  myself  creating  
Karma  on  them.  I  simply  take  them  by  the  hand  and  accelerate  
their  entrance  into  the  situation  they  must  live  in  which  they  
themselves  have  created.  Now,  if     they  perceive  it   as  relative  hell  
or    purgatory,  it  is  their  business.  They  constructed  it  and  they  
are  solely  responsible  for  it.  However,  had  I  allowed  them  to  
stay  inside  that  girl,  not  only  would  they  have  destroyed  her,  
but  they  would  have  lost  precious  time  themselves  by  creating  
worse  Karma.  Most  likely  they  would  have  made  more  persons  
unhappy.  But  let  me  tell  you  something.  These  persons  that  

14 
EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 26 
become  possessed  are  not  the  saintly  types  that  are  considered  
to   be  tormented  by  those  that  are  bad.   I  don't  believe  that  
anyone  can  be  hurt  by  an  evil  person  if  he  does  not  have  inside  
himself  something  analogous.  Do  you  understand  now  what  is  
happening?  However,  we  shall  never  be  the  judges  of  either  
individuals  or  conditions.  Instead  we  shall  intervene  to  modify  
evil  and  in  its  place  we  shall  prepare  the  circumstances  so  that  
the   meaning   of   goodness,   helpfulness   and   creativeness   will   
dawn  in  the  hearts  of  men,  replacing  the  destructiveness  that  
preceded  it.  Therefore,  whoever  is  working  with  these  matters  
must  first  rid  himself  of  his  own  conceptions  and  sentiments  
about  politics,   religion   and  social   questions.   He   must  stand  
high  above  such  questions  and  with  impartiality  and  objectivity  
evaluate  each  case  in  accordance  with  its  nature.  Had  I,  for  
example,  had  a  bias  in  favor  of  the  Germans,  and,  had  I  had  
antipathy  for Jews,  I  would  not  have  been  able  to  help  that  girl.  
Because  if  one  has  sentiments  for  or  against  one  side  or  the  
other,  one  is  bound  to  invent  rationalizations  to  condemn  or  to  
excuse.   You   see,   our   work   as   Researchers   of   the   Truth   is   
polymorphous.   We  fight  black  magic,  we  do  exorcisms,   we   
heal,  we  fight  injustice,  we  fight  evil  elementals  and  dissolve  
them  and  replace  them  with  benign  ones.  All  these  are  part  of  
the  duties  of  the  invisible  helper.'  
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  'what  were  you  doing  when  you  were  
drawing  the  six-pointed  star  with  the  red  marker?'  
'I   drew the  six-pointed  star  because  the  procedure  I  used  was  
taken  from  the  Jewish  Cabbala.  I  used  a  method  which  was  
appropriate  for  the  girl  as  a  Jewish  person  and  which  could  
have  the  greatest  influence  on  her.   Of  course  the  six-pointed  
star  is  also  our  symbol.'  
'But  what,  exactly,  was  happening  when  you  were  drawing  
the  lines?'  I  probed  further.  
'Did  you  not  notice?  I  was  talking  either  with  my  mind  or  
with  words.  First,  I  sought  to  entrap  those  spirits  and  place  
them  where  I  wished  them  to  be.   Then  I  placed  them   in  a  
symbolic  space-prison   so   that  they   could   not  react.   As   you   
know,  space  is  for  the  gross  material  body.  But  what  about  the  
psychonoetic  body?  There  space  exists  as  meaning,  as  concep-
tion.  So  I  created  a  symbolic  prison  and  placed  them  there.  And  
then,  after  I  forced  them  out  of  the  girl  and  put  them  where  I  

14 EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 
27 
wanted  them  to  be,  I  burned  the  six-pointed  star  in  order  to  
redeem  them  and  thrust  them  into  Erevos.  And  again  I  had  to  
pass  it  through  the  element  of  fire  so  that  this  symbol-prison  
which  I  created  might  not  remain  in  the  gross  material  plane.  
Of  course  the  Cabbala  is  very  complicated.  For  example,  with  
the  Egyptian  Cabbala  you  have  to  follow  a  different  procedure.  
The  same  with  the  Christian  Cabbala.'  
'Daskale,'  I  said,  'it  seems  to  me  that  very  few  people  are  
capable  of  doing  what  you  did  with  that  girl  the  other  day.  
Suppose  she  had  never  met  you.  Would  that  mean  that  she  
could  never  be  cured?'  
'No.   There   are   certain   rabbis   in   Israel   who   could   have   
helped  her.'  
'So   you  had   actually   become   a  Jewish  rabbi  that  day,'   I   
commented. 
'Precisely.  You  cannot  help  someone  unless  you  become  like  
that  person.  As  you  noticed,  I  asked  her  to  pray  with  me  in  
Hebrew.  The  fact  that  I  am  Christian  is  of  no  importance.  Had  
I   used   Christian   symbols   and   prayers   she   would   not   have   
accepted  them.  She  would  not  have  been  able  to  understand.  
And  her vibrations  that were  attuned  to  the pan-Hebraic  way of 
thinking  would  not  have  permitted  the  elementals  that  I  was  
sending  to  get  inside  her.  That  is  why  we  had  to  start  with  the  
"Shalom   Alehem,"   which   means   "Peace  be  with  you."   You   
may  have  noticed  that  all  three  of  them  were  surprised  when  
they  heard  me  speak  the  Hebrew  words.  
'So,'   Daskalos   continued,   'with   "Shalom   Alehem"   I   was   
bringing  peace  between  the  three  Jewish  women  on  one  side,  
and  the   German  spirits  on  the  other.  For  whatever  reasons,  
Karma   brought   Germans   and   Jews   together.   I   wanted   to   
harmonize  the  relations  of  the  two  sides.  I  wanted  to  get  these  
hostile  spirits  out  of  the Jewish  girl  and  isolate  them  first,  but  I  
had   to   make   very   sure   that   the  Jewish   womei)   would   not   
become   the   aggressors   themselves.   Do   you   understand   now   
what  is  happening?  
'Had  the  girl  been  a  Christian  I  would  have  used  the  circle  
and  the  cross.  Also,  1  could  have  used  the  six-pointed  star  and  
placed  crosses  at  the  three  top  triangles.  For  this  particular  case  
I  did  not  use  these  crosses  so  that  the  Jews  would  not  react.  
Now  you  may  ask  why  do  we  place  these  crosses?  In  the  six-

14 
EXORCISING THE NAZI SPIRITS 28 
pointed  star  the  topmost  triangle  symbolizes  the  Absolute.  The  
other  two  are  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  Christ  Logos.  Then  we  
have  the  three  lower  triangles  that  symbolize  the  descent  of  the  
lower  self  into  matter.'  
Daskalos   then   proceeded   to   elaborate   on   the   differences   
between   the   various   Cabbalas.   After   that   our   conversation   
revolved  around  the  question  of  talismans.  I  mentioned  to  him  
that  everybody,  including  myself,  was  surprised  that  he  'saw'  
the  talisman  on  the Jewish  girl.  He  said  he  'saw'  it the  moment  
he  laid  eyes  on  her.  'But,'  he  continued,  'that  was  not  a  very  
powerful  talisman.  It  was  like  a  shield  that  offered  only  partial  
protection  around  the  chest.  What  about  the  rest  of  the  body?  
The  kind  of  talismans  that  we  make  are  general  and  protect  not  
only   the  whole   physical   body   but   also  the  psychic   and   the   
noetic.  It  is  like  a  diving  suit  that protects  the  whole  body.  That  
is  what I  call  a  real  talisman. That is what the  ancient  Egyptians  
used  to  make.'  
Our   conversation    ended   after   Loizos    arrived.   Daskalos   
informed  me  that  he  had  to  go  with  him  to  the  hospital  and  
visit  some  patients.  He  promised  to  continue  our  discussion  on  
the   subject   of  possession,   which   he   said   was   inexhaustible,   
some  other  time.  
"Kyriaco,'  Daskalos  said,  laughing,  'you  can  spend  the  rest of 
your  life  writing  book  after  book  about  these  matters.'  

2 
Elementals 
Iacovos  called  me  early  in  the  morning  and  said  he  would  be  
glad   to   talk   to   me   about   how   he   became   a   member   of   
Daskalos'  inner  circle.  He  was  one  of  his  closest  disciples  and  
was   being   groomed   by   the   master   to   succeed   him.   I   had   
repeatedly  expressed  a  desire  to  meet  him  and  talk  about  his  
life  but   somehow   he   was   hard   to  locate.   Three   weeks   had   
passed  since  I  had  last  seen  him.  I  was  very  pleased  to  hear  
from    him.    In   spite   of   his   young   age   he   seemed   to   be   
exceptionally  knowledgeable  about  Daskalos'  teachings.  Most  
importantly  he  was  one  of  Daskalos'  beloved  disciples  and  I  
assumed  that  through  the  young  adept  I  could  have  an  even  
easier  access  to  the  master.  With  time  both  of  my  assumptions  
proved  to  be  valid.  
Daskalos   had   mentioned   to   me   that   in   1974   during   the   
Turkish  invasion  of  the  island  Iacovos  was  taken  prisoner  to  
Turkey  and  remained  there  for  five  months.  During  that  time  
he   exemplified   great  courage   and   even  though   he  was   only   
fourteen   he   was   an   inspiration   to   the   other   inmates.   He   
allegedly  used  to  stand  in  front  of  the  guards  trying  to  block  
their  way  every  time  they  came  into  the  cell  to  abuse  some  of  
his  fellow  prisoners.  Iacovos  was  badly  beaten  as  a  result  of  his  
actions.  He  purportedly  said  to  one  of  the  guards  as  he  was  
hitting  him,  'You  are  hitting  at  yourself  but  you  don't  know  it.'  
One  of  the  invisible  helpers,  said  Daskalos,  that  was  assisting  
Iacovos  during  his  ordeal  was  'brother  Ismael,'  a  Sufi  master  
who,  in  his  last  corporeal  existence,  lived  as  a  Turk.  
At   a   local   cafe  Iacovos   told   me   of  his   relationship  with  
Daskalos  which  began  when  the  latter  cured  his  father  of  a  
cancerous   tumor   on   the   neck.   From   that   day   on   Iacovos   
became  one   of  Daskalos'   closest   disciples.   His   psychonoetic   
powers  began  developing  before  he  was  sent  to  Turkey.  There  
he   kept   contact   with   Daskalos   through   clairvoyance   and   
29 

30 
ELEMENTALS 
exomatosis   and   informed   his   fellow-prisoners   of   events   in   
Cyprus,   which,   according   to   Iacovos,   he   was   later   able   to   
verify. 
'You  know,'  Iacovos  said,  'the  first  time  I  began  consciously  
to   leave  my  body  I  became  quite  confused.  I  reached  a  point  
when  I  was not sure which  world was  more  real,  the one  we  are  
in   now  or  the  various psychonoetic  planes  where  I  found  myself  
while  in  exomatosis.  Later  on  I  learned  that  both  this  world  
and all  the  psychonoetic  planes  are  illusions  in  the  final  analysis  
and  that  Reality  is  beyond  all  the  worlds.'  
Iacovos'  puzzlement  reminded  me  of  the  classical  Chinese  
tale  when  Lao  Tzu  woke  up  one  morning  very  confused.  He  
dreamt  of  being  a  butterfly  but  he  was  not  sure  whether  it     was  
he  who  dreamt  of  the  butterfly  or  whether  he  was  in  reality  a  
butterfly  dreaming  of  being  Lao Tzu.  Did  Iacovos  and  Lao  Tzu,  
I  wondered,  have  a  comparable  experience?  
Iacovos  went  on  to  tell  me  that  when  he  was  being  sent  to  
Turkey,  and  while  on  the  boat,  memories  of  similar  experiences  
from  past  lives  entered  his  mind.   'While  the  other  prisoners  
were  crying  and  screaming  I  suddenly  experienced  the  Logos  
coming  to  me  in  the  form  of  white  light  and  felt  peaceful.'  
'Have  you  ever  encountered  the  Logos  again?'  I  asked.  
'Yes,  just  before  the  day  I  was  about  to  become  initiated  into  
Daskalos'  inner  circle.'  
'Was  it  a  dream?'  
'No.  I  was  fully  awake  when  Christ  appeared  in  front  of  me  
in   a  vision.  He  made  me  understand  certain  things  about  my  
life.' 
'And  what  did  he  reveal  to  you?'  I  asked  and  noticed  that  
Iacovos  hesitated.  
'He  stood  in  front  of  me,'  he  said  in  a  low  and  sad  voice,  
'and  showed  me  the  scars  on  His  hands  from  the  Crucifixion.'  
'What  was  the  message?'  I  persisted.  
'That  I  too  will  have  to  bear  a  cross  in  my  life,'  Iacovos  
replied softly.  Realizing that  he  wished  to  discuss  the  subject  no  
further  I  shifted  the  conversation  to  other  topics.  We  agreed  to  
meet   at   Strovolos   the   following   day   when   Daskalos   was   
scheduled  to  give  a  lesson.  
I   arrived   at   Daskalos'   much   earlier   than   the   scheduled   
meeting.   Before   every   formal   encounter   with   his   students,   

ELEMENTALS 
31 
Daskalos  usually  met  with  some  of  his  closest  associates  and  
chatted  casually  on  a  potpourri  of  topics,  from  local  politics  to  
the  various  techniques  for  journeying  out  of  one's  body.  When  
I  reached  his  home  Daskalos  was  having  lunch  with  Iacovos  
and  Kostas,  another  one  of  his  closest  associates,  a  forty-year-
old  engineer.  I  found  them  in  the  midst  of  a  discussion  about  
the  Greeks  of  old.  I  politely  declined  their  earnest  invitation  to  
join  their  feast  but  merrily  plunged  into  their  debate.  Daskalos  
brooded   on   the   over-zealousness   of   the   ancient   mystics   in   
guarding  'the  secrets.'  
'They  should  have  tried  to  educate  the  people,  particularly  
the  philosophers,'  he  said  forcefully,  'rather  than  keeping  the  
knowledge  egotistically  to  themselves.'  
'But  Daskale,  what  about  Plato?'  I  pointed  out.  'As  far  as  I  
know  he  was  involved  with  the  Eleusinian  mysteries.  Much  of  
what  you  teach  about  the  higher  noetic  world  reminds  me  of  
Plato's  world  of  ideas.'  
'There  are  some  similarities  but  our  teachings  are  not  quite  
the    same.    Incidentally,    Plato   was    not   involved    with    the    
Eleusinian  mysteries.'  
'That  is  what  some  authorities  say,'  I  noted.  
'They  are  wrong.  Plato  went  to  Egypt  and  became  initiated  
into  the  Egyptian  mysteries.  That  is  why  he  was  called  Plato.'  
'I   don't  get  that,'  I  said.  I  had  learned  in  school  that  he  was  
called  by  that  name  because  he  had  a  broad  chest.  The  name  
Blaton   (Plato)   allegedly   was   a   derivative   of   a   Greek   word   
meaning  the  'broad  one'  or  the  'wide-shouldered  one.'  
'That  is  historical  nonsense,'  Daskalos  scoffed.  'His  name  
comes  from  Baal,   meaning  God,  and  Aton  which  in  ancient  
Egyptian   meant   "the   Invisible   God."   Baalaton   was   cut  into  
Blaton  and  in  the  English  translation  became  Plato.'  Daskalos  
then  went  on  to  make  a  similar  case  for  another  ancient  sage,  
Pythagoras.  It  was  he,  according  to  Daskalos,  who  introduced  
the  idea  of  reincarnation  to  the  Greeks.  
'Pythagoras  traveled  to  India  and  was  introduced  to  Oriental  
mysticism.  He  adopted  his  name  from  a  Sanskrit  word  meaning  
"he  who  has  been  initiated  into  the  temple."  '  
I  commented  that  his  interpretation  of  the  names  of  these  
ancient   philosophers   would   probably   raise   the   eyebrows   of   
many  a  scholar.   Daskalos  was  not  the  least  concerned.   His   

32 ELEMENTALS 
information,  he  said,  was  based  on  the  'Akashic  Records'  and  
not  on  historical  interpretations.  He  explained  that  the  Akashic  
Records   is   another   word   for   Universal   Memory.   Whatever   
exists,  existed  and  will  exist  is  imprinted  in  this  pan-universal  
supercomputer.  Furthermore,  a  single  atom  contains  within  it  
all  the  knowledge  of  the  cosmos.  It  is,  therefore,  possible,  by  
concentrating   on   a   single   atom,   to   acquire   information   of   
something  or  some  event  that  took  place  in  the  distant  past.  It  
is   done  by  entering  into  the  Akashic  Records  just  like  a  scholar  
enters  into  a  library  to  investigate  a  particular  issue.  But  like  
the   scholar,   the   mystic   must   have   prior   knowledge   of   the   
subject  he  is  investigating.   Otherwise  he  will  not  be  able  to  
acquire   any  information.   For  example,   if  one   is   to   use   the   
Akashic  Records  to  obtain  information  on  nineteenth-century  
physics,  one  must  be  familiar  with  physics  to  begin  with.  
'I   am  glad,'  I  said  jokingly,  'that  in  the  order  of  things  there  
is   room  for  conventional  knowledge.  Otherwise  it  would  be  
pointless  to  attend  universities  and  read  books.'  
While  I  was  finishing  my  sentence  a  white  Mercedes  parked  
outside  Daskalos'  door.  A  tall  grey-haired  and  gentle-looking  
man  stepped  from  the  car  and  with  slow  movements  walked  
into  the  house.  Daskalos'  eyes  lit  up.  'Theophani,  what  brings  
you  to  Nicosia?'  All  three  of  them  were  very  happy  to  meet  the  
man,  who  seemed  to  be  close  to  Daskalos'  age,  around  sixty.  
'Kyriaco,' Daskalos said, 'let me introduce you to Theophanis, 
the  "Magus  of  Paphos."  '  We  shook  hands  and  I  expressed  my  
pleasure  to  have  met  him,  mentioning  that  I  had  heard  a  lot  
about  him  from  Daskalos  and  Iacovos.  
Theophanis  was  probably Daskalos'  oldest  close  disciple  and  
friend,  their  association  going  back  for  over  forty  years.  He  was  
from  Paphos,  the  southwestern  port  of  the  island,  one  hundred  
miles   from   Nicosia.   It  was   the   place  where  Saint  Paul  was  
arrested  and  whipped  for  preaching  Christianity  to  the  pagans.  
The  Paphians  were  known  as  devout  worshipers  of  Aphrodite.  
Theophanis  had  the  reputation  of  being  a  healer  himself  and  
had   his  own   disciples   but   at  the   same  time   he   was  also  a  
member of Daskalos'  'inner  circle.'  Given their long association, 
there  emerged  a  strong  bond  of  friendship  between  the  two  old  
men.   Theophanis,   I   was   told,   was   particularly   devoted   to   
Daskalos.   Unlike   him,   however,   who   was   of   an   ebullient   

ELEMENTALS 33 
disposition,  Theophanis  was  a  quiet  man  who  spoke  only  when  
spoken  to.  I  later  learned  that  he  had  never  married.  When  he  
was  twenty-five  years  old  he  was  engaged  to  a  girl  with  whom  
he  was  madly  in  love  who  died  from  tuberculosis  before  their  
wedding  day.  Theophanis  never  fully  recovered  from  that  loss  
and   preferred   instead   to   live  with  her  memory.   He  devoted  
himself    to    healing    and    his    profession.    He    held    a    high    
administrative   position    in   the    co-operative   movement,    an    
institution  so  developed  and  well  entrenched  in  Cypriot  life  that  
it   often  served  as  a  model  for  other  developing  societies.  
As  we  were  talking  Theophanis  inquired  whether  Daskalos  
was   planning   a   trip   to   Greece   during  the   summer   months.   
Daskalos  spent  several  weeks  every  summer  in  Athens  giving  
'crash  courses'  to  his  disciples  there.  During  the  rest  of  the  year  
he  sent  them  tapes.  The  invention  of  the  tape  recorder,  said  
Daskalos,  made  his  work  much  easier.  He  could  now  reach  a  
greater  number  of  people.  
'I'll  take  a  ten-day  vacation  myself  and  I'll  join  you,'  said  
Theophanis. 
'Great.  But  we'll  have  to  go  by  boat.'  Daskalos  turned  to  me  
and  mentioned  that  Theophanis  was  terrified  of  the  sea.  His  
stomach  had  a  hard  time  adjusting  to  the  waves.  
'But,'   Daskalos   added,   'he   should   not   worry   about   sea   
sickness.   We'll   make   sure   the   sea   calms   down   so   that   his   
Excellency  may  have  a  pleasant  trip.'  
I   assumed   Daskalos   was   either   joking   or   was   speaking   
metaphorically.  I  was  wrong.  He  was  dead serious,  even  though  
there  was  a  strong  dose  of  humorous  irony  in  his  remarks.  
'I   hope  you  will  be  able  to  pacify  the  sea  as  you  did  the  year  
when  we  went  to  Tinos,'  responded  Theophanis,  noticing  my  
incredulous  look.  One  summer,  he  went  on  to  explain  himself,  
he,  along  with  Daskalos,  sailed  on  a  pilgrimage  to  the  Greek  
island  of  Tinos,  famous  for  the  miraculous  nature  of  an  icon  of  
the  Virgin  Mary.  The  sea  around  Tinos  is  renowned  for  being  
always  turbulent.  Daskalos,  according  to  Theophanis,  used  his  
special  powers  and  calmed  the  waters.  When  they  disembarked  
the  local   fishermen   and  sailors  were  puzzled  by  the   sudden   
tranquility  of  the  sea.  
'How  did  you  do  that?'  I  asked.  
'I   just  wanted  the  sea  to  calm   down  for  the  sake  of  my  

34 
ELEMENTALS 
friend, Theophanis,  and  the  sea  listened,'  Daskalos  replied in  all  
seriousness. 
'But  how  did  you  do  it?'  I  insisted.  
'There  you  go  again.  You  keep  asking  me  this  question  all  
the   time.   How   do   you   do   this,   how   do   you   do  that....  
Suppose  you  had  in  front  of  you  Paganini  with  his  violin  and  
asked  him,  "Mr  Paganini,  how  do  you  play  this  violin?"  what  
do  you  think  he  would  tell  you?  Do  you  think  he  could explain 
to   you  how  he  plays  his  instrument?  It  is  the  same  in  my  case.  I  
just  do  it  but  don't  ask  me  how.  I  can't  explain  it  to  you.'  
Such  phenomena,  Daskalos  said,  should  not  scandalize  us.  
These  are  powers  latent  in  every  human  being.  After  all  Jesus  
Himself  calmed  the  waves.  Since  every  human  being  has  inside  
him  the  Christ  Logos,  it  means  that  every  human  being  can  
potentially  master  such  powers.  
It   was  already  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  and  Daskalos'  
disciples  were  gathered  in  the  Stoa  waiting  for  their  master  to  
give   the   scheduled   lecture.   We   terminated   our   conversation   
after  a  brief  foray  into  the  current  confusion  of  local  politics.  It  
seemed  that  nobody  in  Cyprus  could  avoid  discussing  politics.  
It   was  the  central  topic  of  conversation  among  young  and  old  
alike.   Faced   with   an   occupying   force   in   the   north,   politics   
acquired  an  intensity  of  existential  proportions.  
The  subject  of  Daskalos'   talk  was  elementals.   At  first  he  
summarized   many   of   the    ideas   he    had    discussed   during   
previous  meetings.  It  was  his  pedagogic  method  to  repeat  old  
material  on  a  routine  basis  until  his  students  had  fully  digested  
it. 
Elementals,  he  said,  have  a  life  of  their  own  just  like  any  
other  living  form  and  can  have  an  existence  independent  of  the  
one  who  projected  them.  Any  thought  and  any  feeling  that  an  
individual   projects   is   an   elemental.   He   then   proceeded   to   
explain  that  there  are  two  kinds  of  elementals:  those  that  are  
produced  subconsciously,  which  he  called elementals  of  'desires-
thoughts,'  and  those  consciously  constructed  and  called  elemen-
tals  of  'thoughts-desires.'  
An  individual,  he  went on,  can  vibrate  through  thoughts  and  
sentiments.  The  way  a  person  vibrates  determines  the  type  and  
quality  of  the  elementals  he  creates.  When  he  vibrates  primarily  
through  sentiments,  he  is  under  the  impact  of  emotions   and   

ELEMENTALS 
35 
desires,   thought   playing   a   subservient   role.   These   are   the   
elementals  of  desires-thoughts.  When  an  individual  is  under  the  
influence   of   thought,   he   builds   elementals   made   of   noetic   
substance   and   becomes   a   master   of   the   power   of   visual   
imagery.  A  Researcher  of  Truth  should  train  himself  to  build  
powerful  but  benign  elementals  made  up  of  strong  thoughts  
within  which  desire  and  sentiment  play  a  supportive  role.  Such  
elementals  of  thoughts-desires  last  longer,  are  more  powerful  
and    tend    to    accomplish    the    task    for    which    they    were    
constructed  much  faster.  
Elementals  of  desires-thoughts  are  characteristic  of  ordinary  
people  who  lack  an  understanding  of  the  nature  of  thought  and  
desire.  Consequently  they  often  fall  prey  to  the  very  elementals  
they   themselves   create.   It   is   the   law   of   Nature   that   once   
elementals  are  projected  outwards  they  eventually  return  to  the  
subconscious   of   the   person   who   created   them.   Then   they   
surface  from  the  pool  of  his  memory  to  the  conscious  level  in  
order  to  acquire  new  energy  and  withdraw  again.  The  same  
cycle  is  repeated  until  such  elementals  succeed  in  staying  within  
the  subconscious   of  the  person  on   a  more   permanent  basis.  
They   then    absorb   energy   from    the   etheric-double   of   the   
individual  and  in  this  manner  they  extend  their  life.  This  is  how  
habits  and  obsessions  such  as  smoking,  gambling  and  drinking  
are  being  formed.  
The  tendency  of  elementals  to  return  to  their  source  is  what  
makes  the  law  of  Karma  possible.  An  individual  sooner  or  later  
will  be  confronted  with  the  elementals  that  he  consciously  or  
subconsciously   creates.   In   a   conversation   I   once   had   with   
Daskalos  he  maintained  that  elementals  of  strong  desires  may  
return  to  the  person  that  gave  them  birth  at  a  time  when  he  
least  desires  them.  Daskalos  then  claimed  that  in  a  previous  
incarnation   as   an   Italian   during   the   Renaissance,   he   was   
obsessed  with  the  idea  of  inventing  a  printing  machine.  The  end  
result  of  that  obsession  was  to  spend  his  present  life  working  as  
a  linotypist  in  the  government  printing  office.  
Our   present    personalities,    Daskalos   went   on,    and    the    
circumstances  within  which  we  live,  are  the  sum  total  of  the  
elementals  we  have  constructed  ever  since  our  descent  into  the  
three-dimensional   world   and   the   beginning  of  our   cycles   of   
incarnation.  Elementals  are  built  with  the  very  substance  with  

36 
ELEMENTALS 
which  personality  and  the  universes  in  general  are  built,  that  is,  
with  etheric  matter  of  the  noetic,  psychic,  and  gross  material  
worlds. 
'Let   us  examine,'   Daskalos  continued   as   the   audience   of   
about  thirty  persons  listened  attentively,  'the  process  by  which  
an  elemental  is  being  formed.  You  will  notice  that  it  is  not  
possible   for   a   human   being   to   desire   something   before   he   
becomes  aware  of  its  existence.  For  example,  when  I  see  an  
object  it  means  that  etheric  vibrations  of  light  hit  its  surface  
and   transfer   images   and   forms   to   my   eyes.   They   cause   an   
irritation  on  the  optic  nerve  and  then  on  the  brain  which  is  
imprinted  as  "seeing."  Suppose  now  that  I  see  an  object  which  
men   consider   precious,   say   a   diamond   necklace.   I   become   
aware  of  the  existence  of  this  object  through  my  sight.  Suppose  
that   I   am   a   person   who   has   a   strong   desire   for   diamond   
necklaces.   What   happens   then?   Psychic   matter   is   gathered   
around   the   image   of   the   necklace.   Desire   is   formed.   It   is   
precisely   psychic   matter   that   makes   possible   the   birth   of   a   
desire  which  is  followed  by  thoughts  on  how  to  satisfy  it,  in  
this  case  how  to  acquire  the  necklace.  Around  that  object  a  
series  of  elementals  is  being  formed  having  as  their  ultimate  
goal  the  acquisition  of  that  object  by  the  person  who  projected  
them.   An  awareness  of  its  existence   and  desire  to   know  or  
possess   it  are  not,  alone,   sufficient.  Thoughts  about  it  must  
follow   in   order   for   such   an   elemental   to   be   created.   The   
individual  subconsciously  begins  the  process  of  visual  imagery.  
'Suppose   we   take   this   person   to   a   place   away   from   the   
desired  necklace  and  ask   him  to  bring  it  to  his  mind.  Most  
likely  he  will  recreate  it     in  the  greatest detail.  Someone  else who 
saw  the  same  object  but  who  was  not  impressed  by  it  will  not  
be  able  to  reconstruct  it  in  his  mind  so  accurately.  Therefore,  
concentration  and  desire  lead  us  to  the  construction  of  images  
made  of  noetic  matter.  This  is  what  thought  is  all  about,  the  
condensation   of   noetic   matter.   We   begin   to   see   that  object  
through    noetic   light.    Now   pay   attention.    What   are    real    
possessions?   Are   they   those   objects   which   ordinary   people   
consider   real?    Or   are   they   the   elementals   that   we   have   
constructed  inside  us?  Suppose  we  take  a  precious  object  that  
we  own  and  lock  it     up  in  a  safe.  The  elemental  of  that object  is  
inside  us,  is  part  of  us.  It  exists  in  the  pool  of  our  memory  and  

ELEMENTALS 
37 
we  can  bring  it     to  consciousness  any  time we  wish.  It  is  ours.  It  
seems  to you,  however,  that it    is  not  real.  And  yet if   you cannot 
bring  it  to  your  memory,  how  can  you  have  knowledge  of  the  
material   object   in   the   safe?   Think   about   it.   Let   me   put   it   
differently.  Suppose  that  a  very  wealthy  individual  who  knows  
that  in  a  secret  safe  he  has  some  very  valuable  objects  suffers  
from  amnesia.  Everything  within  his  memory  collapses  and  is  
dissolved.  What value  do  you  think  the objects  outside his  mind  
will  have?  None.  Therefore,  where  is  the  real  source  of  value  of  
things?  Pay  attention  to  these  points  which  you  need  to  study.  
Otherwise  you  will  not  be  able  to  penetrate  and  understand  the  
nature   of  Life.   What   is   Life   in   reality  other   than   receiving   
impressions   and   interpreting   them.   Just   think   of   the   world   
around  you.  Can  you  perceive  it  outside  of  these  elementals?  
'You   must   realize   by   now  that   whether   we   perceive   the   
world  as  good  or  as  evil  will  depend  on  the  kinds  of  elementals  
we construct  inside  us  and project outward.  Nothing,  absolutely  
nothing,  has  any  value  in  the  world  of  the  three  dimensions  if     it  
does  not  also  have  value  within  us.  It  is  what  has  value  inside  
us  which  bestows  value  to  whatever  is  outside  of  us.  What,  for  
example,  does  the  phrase  "lack  of  interest"   mean?  When  an  
object  outside  of  us  does  not  have  its  counterpart  inside  us  it  
has  no  value.  So where  has  this  condition  come  from?  From  the  
object  or  from  within  us?  Everything  is  inside  us.'  
Daskalos   stopped   his   talk   for   a   few   seconds   and   then   
proceeded to elaborate on the physical  appearance of elementals, 
or     more   precisely   on   how   elementals   are   perceived   by   a   
clairvoyant  like  himself.  
'When  an  elemental  is  created,  its  image  will  appear  at  the  
base  of  the  nose  right  on  the  chakra  that  lies  between  the  two  
eyes.  A  clairvoyant  will  notice  that  it  appears  first  in  the  shape  
of    a  needle's  head.  The  moment  it  is  thrust  out  of  the  etheric-
double  of  the  individual,  it     begins  to  acquire  its  natural  size  and  
shape.  It  will  then  move  into  the  psychic  worlds  and  will  make  
a   cyclical   movement   the   size  of   which   will   depend   on   the   
strength  of  the  desire.  Then  it  will  return  to  the  person.  At  this  
moment  it  will  enter  into  his  psychic  body  but  not  in  the  same  
place  from  which  it  exited.  It  will  make  an  entrance  through  a  
different  center,  that  which  is  at  the  back  of  the  skull.  
'The  shape  of  an  elemental  will  depend  on  its  type.  It  may  be  

38 
ELEMENTALS 
a   desired  house,   a   bicycle,   or   a  car,   and  so  on.  These   are   
examples  of  concrete  images  of  desires-thoughts  that  remain  
within  the  subconscious  for  a  relatively  short  time.  They  do  so  
because  such  elementals,  as  I  have  said,  seek  a  new  lease  on  life  
in   the  same  manner  that  an  embryo  seeks  food.  It  will  surface  
again  at  the  disc  between  the  two  eyes  and  will  seek  an  exit.  
The  analogous  vibrations  in  the  psychic  body  of  the  person  will  
begin  again.  He  will  remember  it  and  the  desire  will  become  
stronger.  The  elemental  will  detach  itself  once  more  and  move  
on   its   cyclical   trajectory.   An   ordinary   individual   does   not   
realize  what  is  happening.  The  elemental  will  tend  to  dominate  
him.  It  may  become  so  powerful  that  he  may  not  be  able  to  
control  it.  In  such  a  case  the  individual  is  a  slave  to  his  desire  
which  sometimes  may  be  so  intense  that  it  could  lead  him  to  
the  asylum.  It  is  possible  that  such  an  elemental  may  absorb  so  
much  etheric  substance  from  the  individual  that  it  may  even  
enable  it     to  literally  materialize  itself.  Let  us  not  talk  about  this  
unfortunate  development  for  the  time  being.  
'What  about  morbid  conditions  that  emerge   directly  as  a  
result  of our  egotism  such  as  anger,  ostentation,  hatred,  feelings  
of    being  hurt,  of  showing off  and  the  like?  These  elementals  are  
constructed  in  the  same  way  as  all  other  elementals.  Note  that  
egotism  is  itself  an  elemental  which  is  already  formed  within  
the  self-conscious  personality.  It  is  the  product  of  the  repetition  
of      many   elementals.    It   is    so    sensitive    that    the    slightest    
provocation  sets  it  in  motion.  Egotism  can  create  a  variety  of  
elementals.  For  example  we  have  noticed  from  experience  that  
when   an   individual   has   evil   and   malicious   thoughts   against   
someone,  the  elementals  he  creates  have  the  shape  of  snakes  
with  various  dark  colors,  usually  putrid  green.  They  come  out  
either  from  the  heart  or  from  the  base  of  the  nose.  They  move  
towards  the  person  against  whom  we  consciously  or  subcon-
sciously  direct  them  and  they  tend  to  stick  to  the  aura  of  that  
person.  Eventually  they  return  to  us.  Sometimes  such  elementals  
acquire  the  size  of  an  anaconda  and  when  they  return  to  us  we  
feel  our  heart  tighten.  
'Have  you  ever considered  how  many  such  elementals  people  
create   daily?   Had   they   been   able   to   see   the   form   of   the   
elementals  they  project,  they  would  have  been  filled  with  terror.  
This  is  what  is  commonly  called  the  "evil  eye."  I  once  saw  a  

ELEMENTALS 39 
painting  of  a  man  confessing  his  sins   and  there  were  snakes  
coming  out  of   his   mouth.   Do   not  think  that  they  were  the  
fantasies   of   the   artist.   A   clairvoyant   can   literally   see   these   
snakes.   How  often  do  you  see  such  elementals  come  to  you  
during  sleep  and  frighten  you?  These  elementals  are  either  sent  
to    you   by  others   or  they   are  your  own  creation.   It  is  also  
possible  that you  might  have  picked  them  up  in  your  sleep  from  
the  pool  of  elementals  floating  and  wandering  in  the  etheric  
world.  Elementals  of  desires-thoughts  have  shape,  power  and  a  
life  of  their  own.  They  can  become  snakes  and  bears  and  other  
animals.   Children   often   see   them   in   their   sleep   and   have   
nightmares.' 
Daskalos  then  went  on  to  explain  that  we  can  close  the  door  
of      perception    of    such    elementals    by    making    appropriate    
autosuggestions  such  as  a  prayer  before  going  to  sleep.  'We  can  
also  calm  down  by  sending  thoughts  of  love  even  to  those  who  
dislike  us.  By  doing  so  we  disarm  them. They  can  no  longer  
send  us  elementals  that  haunt  us  in  our  sleep.'  
'Daskale,'   I   interrupted,   'why   do   elementals   of   hate   and   
jealousy  look  like  snakes  and  not  like  something  else?  Is  shape  
inherent  in  the  very  nature  of  the  elemental?'  
'Elementals  of  hate  and  jealousy  look  like  snakes  because  in  
our    culture    we    have    this    association.    There    is    nothing    
inherently   evil   about   snakes   or   any   other   animal   for   that   
matter.  The  way  an  elemental  appears  depends  on  the  language  
of    the  person  and  the  place  from  which  he  comes.  Elementals  
are  psychonoetic  energy   charges   that  can   assume   any  shape  
depending  on  who  creates  them.  A  clairvoyant  can  see  them  in  
a  shape  consistent  with  his  background.'  
'So,'  I  continued,  'a  clairvoyant  from  another  culture  may  
see  the  same elementals  in the  shape,  say,  of coyotes  rather than 
snakes.' 
'Exactly.   But   both   will   see   the   same   causal   connection   
between  the  projected  elementals  and  their  effects.'  
'Daskale,'  a  middle-aged  man  asked,  'how  can  we  dissolve  
and  neutralize  the  power  of  elementals  that  we  ourselves  have  
subconsciously  created?'  
'You  must  keep  in  mind,'  Daskalos  replied,  'that  the  power  
and  form  of  elementals  will  not  be  dissolved  until  they  have  
accomplished  the  task  for  which  they  have  been  built.  It  is  for  

40 
ELEMENTALS 
this  reason  that  we  must  be  ready  to  face  the  consequences  of  
our thoughts and actions.  An elemental will keep us accountable 
not   only   in   this   life   but   also   in   succeeding   incarnations.   
Therefore  the  builder  of  an  elemental  will  have  to  sooner  or  
later  confront  the  elementals  that  he  himself  has  constructed.  
'You  may  wonder  whether  we  can  today  avoid  the  influence  
of     former   conditions.   Yes,   assuming   that   we   employ   equal   
power  with  that  of  the  elementals  that  we  have  constructed.  
But we  need  wisdom  and  a  desire to  redress  past errors.  We can 
resist  the  impact  of  old  elementals  or  we  may  succumb  to  them  
by  creating  similar  ones  and  by  reinforcing  the  old  elementals.'  
'How   can   we   fight,'   someone   asked,   'elementals   such   as   
smoking  or  drinking?  Is  it  by  avoiding  situations  where  people  
smoke  or  drink?'  
'First  of  all  you  must  not  fight  such  elementals.  The  enemy  is  
invisible  and  is  bound  to  defeat  you.  By  waging  an  aggressive  
war  against   such   an   elemental   you   energize   it.  The   way   to   
neutralize  its  power  is  to  ignore  it.  Let  me  give  you  an example. 
In    our   society    today   we   see   a   lot   of   people   quarreling   
fanatically  over  politics.   Political  fights  are  on   a  daily   basis   
often  leading  even  families  to  split  up.  These  are  terrible  things  
that  turn  people  into  fools.  I  knew  someone  like  that who  tried  
repeatedly  to  avoid  political  fights  but  to  no  avail.  He  always  
managed  somehow  to  get  entangled  into  political  quarrels  and  
tremble  with  rage.  "I  can't  stand  hearing  them  talk  like  that,"  
he   told   me.   You   see   the   elemental   of   narcissism   was   very   
powerful  in  him.  He  wanted to  show off,  to  prove that he  knew  
more  than  others  and  to  impose  his  views.  I  explained  to  him  
that  it  was  a  personal  weakness  on  his  part  which  he  could  
overcome  with  self-analysis.  I  advised  him  not  to  fight  his  urge  
but   to   consciously   try   to    be   indifferent.    "Tomorrow,"    I    
suggested,   "when   you   go   to   your   office   and   they   start  the  
political  arguments,  you  will  most  probably  have  the  desire  to  
join  in.  At  that  moment  try  to  remind  yourself  that  you  must  
avoid  losing  your  self-control.  The  elemental  inside  you  will  
urge  you  to  intervene  in  order  to  show  your  knowledge  and  
wisdom.  Listen  carefully,  judge  and  weigh  their  arguments,  but  
say  nothing."   "But  isn't   it   better   to   just  leave?"   he   asked.   
"No,"   I   replied,   "you   will   not   gain   anything   by   running   
away." 

ELEMENTALS 
41 
'Naturally  it  was  hard  for  him  to  practice  this  exercise.  At  
first  he  could  not  resist  the  temptation.  But  at  the  end  of  the  
day  he  evaluated  his  actions.  After  three  or  four  attempts  he  
mastered  his  problem.  One  day  he  came  to  me  and  thanked  me  
for  helping  him  win  back  his  friends.  
'With  indifference  you  extract  the  power  of  elementals  and  
you  neutralize  them.  Either  they  get  dissolved  or  they  float  in  
the  etheric  sphere  where  they  may  be  picked  up  by  others.  
When   we   advance   spiritually   we   become   conscious   of   our   
responsibility  for   the   fall   of  our  fellow   man   as   a   result  of  
elementals   left   over   by   us    n   the   etheric   world.   Do   you   
understand  now  why  Christ  said,  "Do  not  judge  lest  you  be  
judged"?  Because  you  shall  be  judged  by  your  own  inner  self.  
You  created  these  elementals  regardless  of  whether  you  have  
transcended  the  condition  that  led  you  to  the  creation  of  them.  
'I   urge  you  not  to  be  concerned  about  how  others  judge  or  
think  of  you.  Fear  only  the  judgment  of  your  own  inner  self.  
Someone  asked  me once  whether I  was  afraid of God.  I  said  no,  
I  love  God  and  I  try  to  be  worthy  of  His  love.  What  about,  he  
said,  the  people  around  you?  No,  I  said,  I don't  judge  them  and  
I  don't  care  about  their  opinions  of  me.  Aren't  you  afraid  of  
anything?   I   am   afraid   of   myself   because   I   cannot   deceive   
myself.  When  I  sit  down  to  meditate  and  practice  my  analysis,  
my  inner  self  will  ask,  "What  did  you  say?  What  did  you  do?  
What  should  you  have  done  and  you  failed  to  do?"  When  we  
begin  to  listen  to  our  inner  self  we  are  on  the  right  path.  We  
will  no  longer  create  evil  elementals  which  will  be  floating  in  
the   etheric   spheres   and   tormenting   those   around   us.   The   
Researcher  of  Truth   must  reach   a  point  where  he  does  not  
create   elementals   of   desires-thoughts   but,   rather,   elementals   
consciously  constructed  that  are  under  his  full  control.  When  
they   leave   him   he   will   be   able   to   govern   and   guide   them   
regardless  of  how  far  away  they  may  be.  Such  elementals  of  
thoughts-desires  are  more  concrete,  more  effective,  and  of  a  
greater  duration.  For  this  reason  we  are  more  responsible  for  
them.  The  person  of  benevolent  thoughts  must  be  certain  that  
what  he  constructs  receive  the  blessings  of  the  higher  spheres.  
No  prayer  has  ever  remained  unanswered   and  no  curse  has  
remained  unpunished.'  
'What  happens,'  someone  in  the  audience  asked,  'when  we  

42 
ELEMENTALS 
send  a  good  thought  to  a  person  who  is  not  receptive?'  
'As  I  have  pointed  out  to  you  before,  it  is  the  Law  that  
whatever  elemental  we  project  will  eventually  return  to  us.  In  
the case of evil elementals, whether subconsciously or consciously 
constructed,  the  punishment  is  inherent  in  them.  When  they  
return  they  acquire  more  strength  and  extension  of  life.  The  
person   against   whom   we   project   an   evil   elemental   will   be   
affected  only  to  the  extent  that  he,  too,  vibrates  on  the  same  
frequency   as   ourselves.   Otherwise   it   will   hit   his   aura   and   
bounce  back  to  us  seven  times  its  original  force.  These  are  the  
types  of  elementals  that  a  Researcher  of  Truth  must  learn  how  
not  to  create.  Jesus  called  them  "spirits  mute  and  deaf"  that  
come  out  of  the  human  being  and,  finding  no  rest,  return  to  the  
individual,  dragging  along  more  of  the  same  kind.  
'In  a  similar  manner,  when  we  project  a  benign  elemental  
and  the  person  is  not  prepared  to  receive  it  as  yet,  it will  hit  his  
aura  and  come  back  to  us.  But  in  such  a  case  the  elemental  will  
leave  its  mark  on  his  aura.  That  power  will  be  there  to  benefit  
that  person  at  any  moment  when  he  will  be  ready  to  vibrate  
analogously.  Therefore,  you  must  always  be  aware  that  good  is  
never  lost.  And  if  you  love  someone  who  you  think  does  not  
deserve  it,  do  not  give  up  or  despair.  Continue  sending  him  
elementals  of  love  and  goodness.  Sooner  or  later  they  will  have  
an  effect  on  him  either  in  this  or  in  succeeding  incarnations.  
Remember  what  Christ  said,   "Love   thine  enemies."   Bear  in  
mind  that   those   we   consider   as   our   enemies   are   in   reality   
persons  suffering  from   ignorance.  For  us  the  word  "enemy"  
does  not exist.  We  shall  not  call  the  mindless  our  enemies.  Keep  
in     mind    that    when    we    love    those    who    love    us    it    is    
understandable  and  very  human.  But  when  we  love  those  who  
hate  us,  it  is  a  divine  condition.  It  uplifts  us  spiritually.  When  
we  hurt  those  who  love  us  it  is  satanic.  Unfortunately  there  is  
too  much  of  that  in  our  society  today.'  
'Does  one  generate  elementals  while  asleep?'  someone  asked.  
'Yes,  of course.  When  we  say  a  person  is  asleep,  it     is  only  his  
gross   material   body  that  is  sleeping.   But  as  a  self-conscious  
personality  he  is   using  Mind  in   the  form  of  sentiments   and   
abstract   thoughts.   He   mixes   them   up   and   subconsciously   
creates  and projects  elementals.  Let  me  add  that  when  a  man  is  
asleep  he  is  more  under  the  influence  of  his  own  elementals  

ELEMENTALS 
43 
than  when  he  is  awake  and  preoccupied  with  the  affairs  of  
everyday  life.  You  will  notice  that  many  things  you  desire  and  
that  you  forget  while  awake  will  come  to  you  either  just  before  
you  fall  asleep  or  during  sleep.  It  is  when  the  individual  is  in  
these  receptive  states  that  he  is  under  the  bombardment  of  his  
own  self,  of  the  elementals  he  has  constructed  earlier.  It  is  for  
this  reason  that  one  of  the  promises  of  the  Researcher  of  Truth  
is   that  every  night  before  falling  asleep  one  must  spend  a  few  
minutes  in  self-analysis.  It  is  exactly  at  that  point  when  one  
begins  to  open  up  and  become  receptive  to  his  own  thoughts  
and  desires.  It  won't  be  difficult  to  dredge  them  up  from  the  
pool  of  memory.  It  is  at  that  moment  when  it  is  easier  for  him  
to   study,  know  and  master  them.  By  learning  how  to  use  Mind  
properly  we  will  discover  who  we  really  are  and  we  will  begin  
to   distinguish  our  true  selves  from  the  conditions  around  us  
that  keep  us  enslaved.  
i  now  want  you  to  sit  comfortably  in  your  seats,'  Daskalos  
said. 
There  was  some  commotion  as  everyone  was  trying  to  relax  
his  limbs.  Daskalos  was  going  to  give  an  exercise.  
'Close  your  eyes.  I  want  you  to  create  with  your  minds  a  
snake.'  A  few  moments  passed  and  then  Daskalos  continued  
slowly  in  a  mesmerizing  voice.  'Hold  it  with  both  your  hands.  
It   is  not  as  terrible  as  you  imagine.  It  is  an  elemental  which  can  
obey  you.  Imagine  that  you  are  holding it    by  its neck  and  tail.  It  
moves.  Here  we  go,'  Daskalos  said  with  disappointment.  'You  
are  horrified!  Had  I  asked  you  to  hold  an  inanimate  golden  
snake  you  would  not  have  felt  terrorized.  But  you  are  afraid  to  
hold  in  your  hands  the  breath  of  life.  Very  well  then.  Hold  in  
your  hands  a  golden  snake.  Now  it  is  easier  for  you,'  Daskalos  
said  with  humorous  irony.  'I  want  some  of  you  now  to  give  it  
life.   It  can  neither  bite  you  nor  hurt  you.   It  is  an  innocent  
elemental.  Let  it  down  to  the  ground  and  with  your  thought  
say:  "No  snake  will  ever  be  able  to  hurt  me."  I  am  telling  you,  
you  will  have  nothing  to  fear  from  snakes  from  now  on.  This  
elemental  will  enter  inside  any  snake  which  may  be  ready  to  
hurt you  and  it   will  calm  it    down.  This  is  a  method  you  can  use  
to   tame  animals  around  you.  Don't  forget  that  we,  ourselves,  
are  responsible  for  making  animals  our  enemies.'  
Daskalos  on  several  occasions  had  talked  of  how  men  have  

44 ELEMENTALS 
made  the  creatures  of  the  Earth  their  adversaries  and  that  there  
was  a  time  when  animals  and  men  lived  in  peace  and  harmony.  
If   you  genuinely  love  an  animal,  he  said,  no  matter  what  it  is,  
you  have  nothing  to  fear  from  it.  It  is  our  hostility  towards  
animals  that  causes  them   to  attack  us.   Daskalos  claimed  he  
could  carry  on  conversations  with  animals,   including  snakes.  
He  once  described  to  me  how  a  snake  sat  at  the  top  of  a  canvas  
he  was  painting  and  how  he  got  some  sugar,  put  it    in  his  mouth  
and,  after  mixing  it  with  his  saliva,  invited  the  snake  to  help  
itself  right  from  his  mouth.  The  snake  took  up  the  invitation  
and  with  its  tongue  licked  up  the  sugar.  There  was  an  eye-
witness  to  this  episode  who  allegedly  almost  fainted.  
On  another  occasion  Daskalos,  at  the,age  of  ten,  sneaked  
into  the  cage  of  a  circus  lion  and  played  with  it.  He  said  it     was  
the  lion  which  invited  him  in.  As  a  grown  man,  a  grandfather,  
on  a  visit  to  the  British  zoo,  he  accomplished  a  similar  feat.  
According  to  his  brother-in-law  who  was  with  him,  Daskalos,  
like  a  mischievous  youngster,  managed  to  enter  into  the  lions'  
den  and  played  with  the  beasts.  At  one  point  he  put  his  head  
inside  the  mouth  of  one  of  the  lions.  He  did  this  in  front  of  the  
horrified    eyes    of   spectators    and   the   zoo    keeper   was    so    
impressed  that  he  made  Daskalos  a  job  offer.  
Once  we  train  ourselves,  Daskalos  said,  to  construct  live  and  
powerful  elementals,  we  will  be  able  to  accomplish  as  much.  
This  is  how  Daniel  managed  to  calm  the  lions.  Daniel  created,  
with  his  mind,  elementals  of  tamed  lions  and  projected  them  
inside  the  hungry  beasts  in  the  den.  
'Now,'   Daskalos   continued   while   everybody   had   his   eyes   
closed,  'imagine  that  you  are  holding  with  your  left  hand  a  
beautiful  orange.  Make  it  as  perfect  as  you  can.  Scratch  it  with  
your  right  hand  and  smell  it.  You  can  smell  it.  Keep  it     tightly  in  
your  hands  and  visualize  it  as  real  as  possible.  You  have  now  
created  the  etheric  model  through  which  the  orange  may  take  
material  existence.  Until  the  next  lesson  I  want  you  to  create  
with  your  mind  an  object  once  or  twice  a  day,  a  few  minutes  at  
a  time.  Concentrate on  it.  Make  it    as  perfect  as  you  can.  At  first  
construct  an  object  such  as  a  fruit  or  a  flower.  Then  construct  a  
living  creature  such  as  a  sparrow  or  a  pigeon.  But  I  must  warn  
you.  Do  not  make  the  mistake  of a  student of  mine who  created  
an  elemental  of  a  dog  and  could  not  control  it.  This  most  naive  

ELEMENTALS 
45 
fellow   learned   the   way   to   build   powerful   elementals   and   
assumed,  the  fool,  that  it     would  be  a  good  idea  to  create  a  dog  
with  noetic  matter  so  that  it  could  guard  his  home  without  
having  to  feed  it.  For  forty  days  through  intense  concentration  
he  infused  this  elemental  with  ether.  He  reached  a  point  when  
he  could  no  longer  control  it.  It  became  so  powerful  that  the  
neighbors  could  even  hear  it  howl  at  night.  
'You   must   know  that   when   such   an  elemental   is   built  it  
acquires  the  characteristics  of  the  person  who  created  it.  If  that  
person  has  an  antipathy  towards  someone,  the  elemental  will  
attack.   Similarly,   when   someone   has   negative   thoughts   or   
feelings  against  the creator  of  the  elemental,  again  the  elemental  
will  attack.  This  is  exactly  what  happened  in  this  case.  One  
night   he   was   desperate   and   came   to   me.   "Save   me,"   he   
implored.  He  could  not  control  the  dog  anymore  and  it  even  
began  attacking  him.  With  great  effort  I  managed  to  dissolve  
that  elemental.  I  had  no  choice  but  with  great  sorrow  to  expel  
him  from  our  circles.  I  took  away  his  white  robe,  so  to  speak.  I  
just  took  away  the  cloth.  The  white  robe  will  always  be  around  
him  to  guide  him  through  the  aeons.  
'You  must  understand  that  when  you  create  elementals  of  
thoughts-desires   you   are  handling   divine  substance.  You  are  
not  dealing  with  clay.  The  acquisition  of  such  powers  is  a  great  
responsibility.   We   should   experiment   but   we   must   be   wise   
enough   to   create   elementals   of   thoughts-desires   which   will   
benefit  our  fellow  man,  not  to  satisfy  egotistical  desires.  Our  
aim  is  to  become  psychotherapists,  not  black  sorcerers.  May  
the  love  of  the  Most  Beloved  One  be  with  you  and  in  your  
homes  and  with  the  whole  world.'  
After  Daskalos  ended  the  lesson  I  spent  a  few  minutes  in  the  
Stoa  talking  to  Iacovos  while  most  of  the  others  chatted  outside  
under  Daskalos'  grapevine  arbor.  A  middle-aged  woman,  who  
seemed  to  know  Iacovos  well,  returned  to  the  Stoa  and  asked  
for  Iacovos'  help.  She  was  about  to  have  an  operation  at  the  
hospital  and  wondered  whether  it     would  be  possible  to  avoid  it  
through  healing.  Daskalos  had  advised  her  not  to  worry  and  to  
proceed  with  the  operation.  He  then  sent  her  to  Iacovos  for  
assistance.  I  assume  it    was  part of Daskalos'  method  of  training  
Iacovos  in  the  art  of  healing,  in  the  same  way  that  a  surgeon  
trains  an  intern.  

46 ELEMENTALS 
She  briefly explained  to  Iacovos  her  problem  and  her  fears  of  
lying   under   the   surgeon's   lancet.   Iacovos   tried   to   allay   her   
anxiety  with  comforting  words  and  then  asked  her  to  sit  on  a  
chair.  He  then  placed  his  hands  over  her  head,  closed  his  eyes,  
and  breathed  deeply.  He  remained  in  that  position  for  about  
five  minutes.  
'Think  of  me  when  you  are  about  to  have  the  operation  and  
I  will  be  there,'  Iacovos  said  to  the  woman.  
'Just what  did  you  do  to  her?'  I  asked  with  curiosity after  the  
woman  thanked  him  and  joined  the  others  in  the  yard.  
'I   just  built  a  therapeutic  elemental,'  Iacovos  said  confidently.  
'The  patient  will  think  of  me  just  before  the  operation.  When  
she  does  that  the  elemental  I  created  will  become  activated  and  
will  do  exactly  what  I  would  do  were  I  to  be  there  in  person.  
Her  thought  will  create  the  contact  between  her  and  myself.  
The  elemental  will  absorb   energy  from  my  etheric-double  to  
work.' 
'What  will  you  be  thinking  at  that  moment?'  I  asked.  
'I   will  perhaps  feel  some  exhaustion  or  I  will  become  absent-
minded.  It  is  hard  to  explain.'  
'How  did  you  build  that  elemental?'  I  probed  further  as  I  
noticed  that  most  of  Daskalos'  students  had  already  gone.  
'I    have   employed   certain   properties   of   etheric   vitality   to   
shape  an  elemental  which  will  be  appropriate  for  her  situation.'  
'You  mean  one  therapeutic  elemental  differs  from  another?'  I  
asked  again.  
'Certainly.  It  differs  in  terms  of  its  shape  and  the  intensity  of  
desire  it  encloses.'  
'What  exactly  did  you  do  at  that  moment  when  the  woman  
asked  you  for  help?'  
i  created  a  white-blue  ball  of  light  which  I  projected  on  her  
etheric-double.   That   ball   of   light  will   become   energized  the  
moment  the  patient  thinks  of  me.'  
'Sounds  very  simple,'  I  said  wryly.  
it   is  not  as  simple  as  it  seems.   You  must  employ  intense  
concentration  to  build  such  an  elemental.  Otherwise  it  will  be  
dissolved.' 
'Come,'  I  said,  'Daskalos  is  waiting  for  us.'  

2 
The  Authenticity   of  Experience  
When  Zoe,  Emily's  good  friend,  learned  of  my  'secret  project,'  
she  expressed  a  strong   desire  to   meet  Daskalos.   She  was  a  
bright woman  in  her  early thirties,  a  local writer,  who  was  once  
a   student   of   Piaget   in   Switzerland.   Zoe   was   a   thorough   
secularist,    steeped    in    contemporary    French    thinking    and    
culture.  Even  though  she  accepted  the  possibility  that  humans  
may   have   latent   powers,   the  concept  of  the   soul,   life   after   
death,  and  reincarnation  were  to  her  complete  absurdities.  The  
visit  to  Daskalos  was  more  out  of  curiosity,  she  admitted,  than  
a  desire  to  search  for  a  master.  
I  went  to  Daskalos  with  Zoe  during  the  early  evening.  Emily  
was  to  join  us  later,  along  with  Stelios,  a  close  friend  of  mine,  
and his  wife.  On  the  way  Zoe  appeared  somewhat  apprehensive  
and  uneasy.  As  a  child,  she  experienced  terror  every  time  the  
name  of  Daskalos  was  mentioned  by  her  parents,  she  confided  
in   me.  She  knew  that  her  father  was  acquainted  with  Daskalos  
but  was  not  certain  in  what  capacity.  Her  childhood  fear  of  
Daskalos  was  the  result  of  a  tale  that  circulated  among  friends  
of    the  family.  He  allegedly  caused  a  pair  of  scissors  to  move  by  
themselves  in  order  to  tease  some  friends.  This  feat  took  place  
in    the   middle   of  the   night  while   everyone  was   asleep.   The   
scissors  flew  over  the  middle  of  the  room  and  were  nailed  on  
the  floor.  These  childhood  memories  aroused  in  Zoe  feelings  of  
discomfort.  I  reassured  her  that  his  reputation  among  certain  
circles  as  a  frightful  sorcerer  was  totally  unfounded  and  that  
once  she  met  him  she  would  be  quite  at  ease.  She  agreed  that  
her  fear  was  totally  irrational.  
Daskalos  was  exceptionally   friendly  to  Zoe   and  after  the  
preliminary  courtesies  he  mentioned  in  passing  that  her  father,  
a  prominent  architect  and  former  minister  in  the  government,  
was  Daskalos'  student for  many years.  The  revelation came as  a  
shock  to  her.  In  the  meantime  the  others  arrived  and  the five of 
47 

48 
THE  AUTHENTICITY  OF  EXPERIENCE  
us  sat  in  anticipation  of  what  we  expected  to  be  an  enchanted  
evening. 
'Daskale,'  I  began,  'the  other  day  I  had  a  discussion  with  
Zoe  on  the  nature  of  mysticism  and  the  relationship  between  
mind   and   body.   She   claims   that   she  can   easily   accept   the   
possibility  of  paranormal   phenomena  but  dismisses  that  soul  
and  body  are  two  distinct  realities.  Perhaps  we  can  start  our  
discussion  tonight  with  this  issue.'  
Daskalos  seemed  to  be  in  a  lively  mood  and  appeared  to  
have  taken  a  liking for  Zoe.  He  mentioned  to  me  on  a  different  
occasion  that  he  preferred  to  discuss  spiritual  questions  with  
well-intentioned   atheists   than   with   the   fanatically   religious.   
With   a   critical   atheist,   he   said,   you   can   have   a   rational   
conversation.  Not  so  with  the  superstitiously  religious.  
'Do   you   know   what   matter   is?'   Daskalos   began   in   an   
assertive  tone  after  looking  Zoe  intensely  in  the  eyes.  Without  
waiting  for  an  answer  he  continued,  'Do  you  think  that  the  
chemists  with  their  elaborate  formulas  know  what  matter  is?  
For  us  there   is  no  matter.  There  is  only  Mind.'  Zoe  asked  
several  questions  trying  to  understand  Daskalos'  language  and  
challenging  his  diminution  of  matter.  
'What  is  wrong  with  matter?'  she  protested.  
'Matter  as  master  is  evil.  Matter  as  servant  is  a  blessing,'  
Daskalos  replied  and  spent  some  time  elaborating  on  what  he  
meant  by  matter.  
'What   is   the   purpose   of  matter?'   Zoe,   who   had   quickly   
overcome  her  initial  reservation  about  Daskalos,  asked.  
its  purpose  is  to  make  possible  for  us,  as  eternal  entities,  to  
acquire  experiences.  It  is  a  manifestation  of  the  Absolute  that  
makes possible for us the development of our self-consciousness.' 
Daskalos   then   summarized   his   philosophy  on   the   nature  of  
Being,  the  nature  of thought,  elementals,  the  difference  between  
permanent  and  present  personality  and  so  on.   He  explained  
that  matter  is  not what  it     appears  to  be.  We  imagine  something  
as    solid  simply  because  we  vibrate  at  the  same  frequency  with  
that  object.  
is   it  possible,'  Daskalos  continued,  'to  build  a  city  without  
an   architect?    Is   it   possible   to   build   a   house   without   a   
blueprint?'  After  raising  the  questions  he  went  on  to  argue  that  
there  are  immutable  laws,  causes  that  exist  in  the  higher  noetic  

49 THE AUTHENTICITY OF EXPERIENCE 
plane,  the  world  of  ideas.  These  archetypal  ideas  are  the  real  
causes  of  phenomena.  
'I   find  it  very  hard,'   commented  Zoe,  'to  accept  that  my  
thoughts   and   feelings   can   be   heard   by   anyone   other   than   
myself.' 
'Many  of  my  students  often  ask  me  this  question.  "Does  the  
Absolute  feel,  see,  hear  as  we  do?  Is  Christ  listening  to  us  right  
now  as  we  are  talking  to  one  another?   Is  He  aware  of  the  
lesson  that  we  are  having  at  this  very  moment?"  My  answer  is  
a  categorical  yes.  He  hears  and  feels  this  lesson  both  from  His  
own   perspective   as   the   Pan-Universal   Logos   and   from   the   
perspective  of  each  one  of  us,  as  we  ourselves  understand  and  
feel  it.  Why?  Because  He  is  the  Light  that  enlightens  every  man  
descending  upon  the  Earth.  It  is  this  Light  that  makes  possible  
for   us   our   own   self-conscious   intelligence.   Never   has   any   
conversation  been  carried  on  by  humans  that  He  has  not  heard.  
Never   has   any   thought   or   idea   been   conceived   by   human   
intelligence  that  He  does  not  know.   Believe  me,  there  is  no  
secret   which   will   not   one   day   be   revealed   through   Karma   
because  we   as   phenomena   of  life   do  not  exist   within   dead   
matter.  The   Universe  is  not  a  lifeless  machine.   Dead  matter  
cannot  create  life.  Sooner  or  later  each  one  of  us  will  realize  
that  as  human  intelligences  on  a  certain  stage  of  our  evolution  
we  live  simultaneously  within  a  Superintelligence.  It  would  be  
foolhardy   to   assume   that   the   builder   of   eyes   and   ears   can   
neither  see  nor  hear.   And  it  would   be   equally  irrational   to   
conclude  that  what  gave  us  the  ability  of  self-awareness  is  not  
aware  of  itself.'  
We  listened  attentively  as  Daskalos  continued  his  dialogue  
with  Zoe.   No  longer  feeling  apprehensive,   she   continued  to  
question  Daskalos  like  a  good  investigator.  It  appeared  as  if     the  
lesson  was  given  primarily  for  her.  
'What  evidence  do  you  have,'  she  asked,  'that  you  have  a  
soul  and that the  world  you  have described  to  us is  real  and not 
an  illusion  or  a  hallucination?'  
Apparently   Zoe's   question   was   the   type   that   Daskalos   
expected  and  which  elicited  a  prolonged  response.  I  was  certain  
it   was  not  the  first  time  that  Daskalos  had  confronted  such  a  
question. 
'Perhaps,'  Daskalos  said,  after  leaning  back  in  his  chair  with  

50 
THE  AUTHENTICITY  OF  EXPERIENCE  
a  smile  on  his  face,  'the  best  way  to  answer  your  question  is  to  
describe  a  few  personal  experiences.  
'I   was  once  traveling  by  boat  to  Greece.  There  was  heavy  
rain  and  I  went  to  my  cabin  to  lie  down.  I  came  out  of  my  
body.  I  spread  myself  all  over  the  boat.  I  saw  everything  that  
was  going  on  in  that  ship.  I  saw  what  was  happening  in  the  
captain's  cabin,  in  the  kitchen,  in  the  dining room,  on  the  deck.  
I  then  soared  higher  and  spread  myself  over  a  wider  area.  I  saw  
sea  gulls  following the boat.  1  penetrated  the  deep  and  observed  
life  there.  I  experienced  the  saltiness  of  the  sea.  I  was  one  with  
the boat.  I  spread  further  and  higher  and  saw  an  island  ahead.  I  
was   able   to   see   the   smallest   detail   on   that   island,   creeks   
flowing,  rabbits  running  up  the  hills,  trees.  The  boat,  from  up  
there,    appeared   like    a   match   box.    Suppose   it   sank    and    
everybody   drowned,   what   would    have   happened   to    me?    
Nothing.  I  would  not  feel  a  thing.  This  is  really  what  Christ  
meant  when  he  said  that  those  who  follow  Him  will  not  taste  
death.  Christ  used  to  take  his  students  into  the  olive  groves  and  
give  them  exercises  and  experiences  in  exomatosis.  
'When   I   came   back   to   my   body,'   Daskalos   went   on,   i   
stepped  out  of  my  cabin  and  walked  on  the  deck.  The  rain  had  
already  stopped  and  the  sun  had  come  out.  The  captain,  an  
Athenian,  was  standing  there  gazing at the horizon.  I  asked  him  
whether  there  was  a  little  island  ahead  of  us.  "Yes,  Daskale,"  
he  replied,  "there  is  one  a  few  miles  away.  Did  you  see  it?"  
"How   did   you   know   my  name?"   I  wondered.   He   said   his   
brother  was  a  student  of  mine  and  coincidentally  he  had  in  his  
cabin  a  couple  of  mimeographed  volumes  of  my  talks.  Later  on  
we  passed  by  the  island  that  I  had  seen  in  exomatosis.  It  was  
exactly   the   way    I    experienced    it.'    Daskalos    stopped    his    
narrative  and  addressed  himself exclusively  to  Zoe.  'Now  is  this  
hallucination  or  a  real  experience  which  validates  the  reality  of  
my  world?'  
in   this  case,'  Stelios  commented  from  his  corner,  'you  were  
able  to  confirm  your  experience  because  what  you  saw  was  on  
the  material  plane.  How  can  you  confirm  experiences  that  are  
not  of  this  world  when  people  with  an  ordinary  consciousness  
have  no  access  to  them?'  
'You  can  also check what you experience on  the psychonoetic 
level.' 

51 THE AUTHENTICITY OF EXPERIENCE 
'Can  two  people  on  the  psychic  dimension   have  identical  
experiences  that  can  be  confirmed  by  each  other?  Can  they  see  
the  same  things?'  Stelios  asked  again.  
'They  may  see the  same  things  differently.  Suppose  I  take  ten  
people  to  gaze  at  a  landscape  and  then  bring  them  back  and  ask  
them   to   describe   what   they   saw.   Do   you   think   they   will   
describe  that  landscape  in  the  same  way?  Or  will  they  observe  
and  notice  whatever  attracts  their  interest?  They  will  see  the  
landscape.  But  they  will  not  describe  it  the  same  way  unless  
they  have  identical  interests.  When  two  Researchers  of  Truth  
with   the   same   concerns   find   themselves   within   a   psychic   
subplane  they  see  and  observe  with  the  greatest  detail  the  same  
landscape.   In   this   way   we   confirm   the   authenticity   of   our   
psychic  experiences  that  cannot  be  validated  through  the  five  
senses.'   Daskalos   then   turned   towards   Zoe   and   began   to   
narrate  another  psychic  experience  he  had  had.  
'Four  miles  away  from  Strovolos  there  is  a  farm  owned  by  a  
friend  of  mine.  He  once  invited  me  to  spend  the  weekend  with  
his  family  and  volunteered  to  give  me  a  lift  with   his  car.   I   
preferred  to  walk  to  his  house.  The  following  day  just  before  I  
was   about   to   wake   up   I   spread   myself   and   surveyed   the   
territory  between  my  house  and  my  friend's  farm.  I  noticed that 
on  the  road  just  before  his  farm  there  were  two  snakes  fighting  
one   another.   I   saw  the   big  snake  chasing  the   small  one.   It   
grabbed  its  tail,  bit  it  and  slowly  swallowed  it.  Then  it  tried  to  
cross  the   street  but   at  that   moment   a   car  coming  from  the  
direction  of  Tseri  ran  over  it  and  crushed  its  neck.  I  saw  the  
snake  squirming  convulsively  and  with  spasmodic  movements  it  
crawled  into  the  ditch.  
'In  the  meantime  I  woke  up,  put  on  my  clothes  and  started  
walking  towards  the  farm.  It  took  me  about  an  hour  until  I  
reached  the  spot  where  I  had  seen  the  fight  between  the  two  
snakes.  As  I  was  approaching,  a  car  stopped  and  four  persons  
stepped  out.  I  laughed.  I  said  to  myself  they  must  have  seen  the  
dead  snake.   "Are  you  looking  at  the  black  snake?"   I  asked  
them  as  I  came  closer.  One  of  them  turned  towards  me  with  
amazement.  "How  do  you  know  there  is  a  black  snake?"  he  
asked.   "In  fact,"   I  said,   laughing,   "there  is   a  yellow  snake  
inside   the   black   one."    "What   did   you   say?"    the   fellow   
responded  with  suspicion.  "There  is  another  snake  inside  this  

52 
THE  AUTHENTICITY  OF  EXPERIENCE  
one?" You see,' Daskalos continued, 'I   was naive at that time and 
talked  openly  about  my  experiences.  I  admit  it  was  a  mistake.  
i  described  to  them  in  detail  what  happened  and  how  a  car  
passed  over  the  snake,  crushing  its  neck,  how  it  crawled  into  
the  ditch  and  so  on.  That  man  suddenly  took  out  a  pocket  
knife,  stepped  over  the  head  of  the  snake  with  his  foot,  and  
sliced  its  belly  in  two.  He  found  there  the  yellow  snake.  He  
looked  at  me  in  horror.  "Are  you  Spyros  Sathi?"  he  muttered.  
"Yes,"   I  nodded.  "Get  away  from  here.  You  are  the  Devil,"  
and  he  pointed  his  finger  at  me.  "Why,  mister,  do  you  think  I  
am  the  Devil?"  1  protested.  "How  did  you  know  there  was  a  
yellow   snake    inside    the   black   snake?"    he   asked   with    a    
trembling  voice.  
'Could  I  explain  to  him  how  I  knew?'  Daskalos  said  with  an  
air   of   despair   in   his   voice.   'Do   you   think   he   could   have   
understood?  I  just  said,  "It  seemed  to  me  that  way."  "It  didn't  
seem  to  you,"   he  said,   "you  are  the  Devil,"   and  he  started  
crossing  himself.  I  discovered  later  that  he  went  to  the  priests  
and  announced  to  them  that  he  had  encountered  Satan   and   
narrated  the  episode  with  the  snakes.  
'One  has  to  be  very  careful  about  these  matters.  At  the  same  
time  these  are  the  very  experiences  that  offer  me  unshakable  
convictions    on    the    reality    of    my    world.    Now    do    you    
understand?   I   have   continuous   experiences   like   these   which   
prove  to  me  that  the  world  I  live  in  is  neither  a  hallucination  
nor  an  illusion.  
'Some  time  ago,'  he  went  on,  'a  stupid  fool  borrowed  my  
binoculars   and   lost   them   on   a   trip   up   on   the   Troodos   
mountains.  He  hung  them  on  a  pine  tree,  forgot  which  tree  he  
had  hung  them  on,  and  left  them  there.  He  got  into  his  car,  
came   down   to   Nicosia,   and   with   the   greatest   audacity   he   
announced,  "You  know,  Daskale,  those  binoculars  of  yours  are  
gone,  they  flew  away."  "What  do  you  mean  they  flew  away?"  1  
said  angrily.  "I  just  don't  know  where  I  put  them."  "What  do  
you  mean,  you  don't  know?"  I  responded  with  exasperation.  
"Those  are  powerful  and  expensive  binoculars  that  I  cannot  
find  today."  "But  what  can  I  do,  Daskale?  I  just  lost  them."  
"You  must go  and find them,"  I  ordered him.  "How  am  I  going  
to   do  that?"  "Just  wait  a  minute,"  I  said  to  him.  "Let  me  find  
out  where  they  are  and  then  you  go  and  fetch  them.  Where  did  

53 THE AUTHENTICITY OF EXPERIENCE 
you  go?"  I  asked  him.  "We  went  to  many  places,  Troodidissa,  
Platres,   all   around   the   mountains.   We  went...."   "Just   a   
moment,"  I  said,  "I  can  coordinate  myself  with  my  binoculars  
because  they  are  embedded  with  my  aura."  I  closed  my  eyes.  
"Did  you  pass  by  such  and  such  a  road?"  I  asked.  "Yes."  "Did  
you  climb  up  the hill?"  "Yes,"  he  said  reluctantly,  "and  I  didn't  
even  have  paper...  I  went  up  there  for  this  job  and. ..."
  1  
Daskalos  roared  with  laughter  and  continued  his  story.  
'  "I  went,"  he  said,  "behind  the  hill  so  that  they  would  not  
see  me  while  I  relieved  myself.  Don't  tell  me  more,"  he  said.  
"Don't  tell  me  that  I  wiped  myself  with  rocks."  "I  don't  care,"  
I  said,  "how  you  wiped  your  ass.  What  I  care  about  is  my  
binoculars  that  you  left  behind,  hanging  on  that  pine  tree.  You  
must  go   right  away  and   bring  them  back."   "Are  you   sure?   
Okay,  I'll  go,"  he  promised.  He  got  into  his  car,  traveled  a  
hundred  miles  all  the  way  to  the  mountains  and  back,  walked  
up  that  hill,  found  my  binoculars  hanging  from  the  tree,  and  
brought  them  back  the  same  day.  "Son  of  a  gun,"  he  said,  "I  
forgot  that  I  put  them  up  there."  '  
Daskalos  interrupted  his  narrative  and  whispered  that  these  
phenomena  are  no  longer  allowed.  Before,  he  admitted,  such  
incidents  escaped  him  and  often  caused  a  great  deal  of  trouble,  
with  the  church  in  particular.  
'How  can  I  not  be  convinced?'  he  went  on.  'This  is  my  life,  
my  every-day  reality.   How  can   anyone  who  does  not  share  
similar  experiences  convince  me  that  my  world,  my  reality  is  
illusory?  Anybody  has  the  potential  to  have  such  experiences.'  
'In  science,  Daskale,'  I  said,  after  a  few moments had  passed,  
'one  scientist  can  check  the  results  and  observations  of  another  
scientist.  ...'  
Daskalos  understood  what  I  was  about  to  say  and proceeded 
to   answer  my  question  before  I  completed  the  sentence.  
'You  can  check  these  experiences  also.  Had  it  not  been  so,  
you  could  not  believe.  I  speak  of  psychic  planes  and  subplanes.  
I  am  not the  only  one  who  talks  about  these  realms.  Others  see  
and  experience  the  same  things  as  myself.  The  work  that  I  do  
others   also   do.   They   may   not   remember   fully,   but   they   
remember  a  great  deal.  Do  you  follow  me?  Take  Marios,  my  
three-year-old grandson.  When  he  was  two  years  old he  wanted  
to   do  exomatosis  with  me.'  

54 
THE  AUTHENTICITY  OF  EXPERIENCE  
'Did  the  child  himself  ask  for  it?'  I  inquired.  
'Yes    he    did,'    Daskalos    replied    and   continued.    'I   was   
conversing  with  Theophanis  and  the  mayor  of  Paphos.  Marios  
was  there  also.  He  was  anxious.   I  asked  the  others  to  wait  
while  I  took  him  for  a  "walk."  They  understood  what  I  meant.  
They  knew  about  these  matters.  "Come,  my  love,"  I  said  to  
Marios.  "Come  out  and  1 will  join you."  He closed  his  eyes  and  
began  to  breathe  deeply  while  I  continued  talking  to  the  others.  
In   the  meantime  he  came  back.  "Grandpa,"  he  said,  "come  on,  
I   am   waiting.   When   are   you   coming   out   yourself?   Come,   
come,"  he  said.  "Okay,  my  love.  Go  back  and  I'll  follow  you  
right  away."  I  saw  him  come  out  of  his  body  and  stand  right  in  
front  of  me  waiting.  I  excused  myself  and  lay  on  a  couch.  I  
came  out  of  my  body  and  joined  Marios.  Like  lightning  we  
went  to  the  southwest  coast  near  Limassol  somewhere  between  
the  city  and  the  British  bases.  There  are  some  huge  cliffs  facing  
the  sea.  Marios  liked  it  there.  He  enjoyed  standing  on  the  side  
of    the  sea  facing  the  land  and  the  rocks.  As  we  were  roaming  
around  we  saw  a   big  snake  coming  toward  the  edge  of  the  
precipice.  The  snake  saw  us.  Animals  are  clairvoyant,  you  see.  
My  grandson  went  towards  the  snake  and  played  with  it.  He  
stood  in  front  of  it     trying  to  stop  it  from  moving  forward.  The  
snake  raised  its  head  and  started  hissing.'  Daskalos,  like  a  good  
actor,  imitated  the  snake  and  continued.  
'I    stood   there  watching   and   laughing.   Marios   passed   his   
etheric  hand  through  the  body  of  the  snake  which  continued  to  
hiss.  "Come  on,  my  dear,"  I  said  to  him,  "we  have  to  go  back  
because we  have guests."  I  woke  up  first,  laughing,  and told the 
others  about  my  experience  while  Marios  was  still  out  of  his  
body.  In  a  few  minutes  he  woke  up.  Theophanis  immediately  
asked  him,  "Where  did  you  go,  my  love?"  "To  the  sea  where  
the  big  rocks  are,"  he  replied.  "And  what  did you  see  there,  my  
love?"   Theophanis   asked   again.   "We  saw  mister  snake.   He   
stood  up  and   said  hissss...."'  Daskalos  imitated  how  little  
Marios  described  the  behaviour  of  the  snake.  Then  he  leaned  
back  and  looked  at  Zoe.  
'Well,'   he   said,   'is   this   not  proof   for   me?   Is   this   not   a   
validation  of  the  reality  of  my  experiences?  You  may  ask,  "Do  
all  those  who  are  capable  of  conscious  exomatosis  remember  
their experiences?"  I  would  say  some  a  great  deal,  some  a  little.  

55 THE AUTHENTICITY OF EXPERIENCE 
In   order  to  remember  your  experiences  fully  you  need  a  great  
deal  of  practice.  Then  you  will  reach  a  stage  where  you  will  be  
in   full  control.'  
'How   does   one   begin   to   develop   these   abilities?'   Stelios   
inquired. 
'Through  certain  meditation  exercises.'  
'Why  are  they  necessary?'  Stelios  asked  again.  
'Tell  me  something,'  Daskalos  replied  with  a  dose  of irony  in  
his  voice,  'can  one  play  the  violin  without  practice?  It  is  exactly  
the  same  with  the  development  of  one's  psychonoetic  powers.'  
'Is    it  not  possible  to  be  born  with  such  abilities?'  
'Yes.  But  you  must  have  developed  these  powers  somehow,  
sometime  in   the  past.   If  you  are  born  with   such   abilities  it  
means  you  have  brought  them  with  you  from  previous  lives.'  
'How  should  one  start  practicing?'  Zoe  asked.  
'With  concentration,'  Daskalos  said  slowly  and  emphatically.  
'Let   me   ask   you   a   question.   "How   many   things   do   you   
concentrate  on  with  full  awareness  during  your  everyday  life?"  
Very   few.   When  you   train   yourself  to  concentrate   you   will   
become  aware  of  much  more  in  your  life.  At  first  you  devote  a  
quarter  of  an  hour  every  day.  During  that  time  you  may  take  a  
walk   and   will   fully   notice   everything   around   you.   Nothing   
should  escape  your  attention,  nothing.  You  may  feel  tired  at  
first  because   you  are  not  accustomed  to  paying  attention  to  
everything   around   you,   the   ant   walking,   the   flowers,   the   
sounds, the voices.  You  perceive  everything,  you  feel  everything.  
When  you  start  this  exercise  you  learn  that  during  that  quarter  
of    an  hour  you   live  much  more  fully,   much  more  intensely,  
than  at  any  other  period  of  the  day.   You  will  discover  that  
what   is   considered   ordinarily   as   the   awakening   state   is   in   
reality  a  form  of  semihypnosis.   You  will  discover  that  your  
consciousness   of   the   world   will   expand-  tenfold   during  that  
quarter  of  an  hour.  Usually  you  do  not  retain  in  your  memory  
more  than  a  fraction  of  the  day's  impressions  which  you  receive  
within  the  gross  material  world.  Therefore,  how  much  do  you  
expect   to   bring   back   and   remember   from   experiences   you   
receive  within  the  psychic  world?  Consequently  one  must  begin  
exercising   on   the   gross   material   plane   and   then   continue   
exercising  on  the  psychic  plane.  It  is  a  matter  of  practice.  Do  
you  understand  now?  Today  man  does  not  know  how  to  live,  

56 THE  AUTHENTICITY  OF  EXPERIENCE  
how  to  concentrate,  how  to  express  himself  within  the  realms  
of    Creation.  Would  you  call  the  person  who  knows  how  to  
concentrate  superior  to  others?  No.  I  do  not  consider  him  any  
more  skillful  than  a  person  who  plays  Paganini  on  the  violin  or  
Beethoven   on   the   piano.   It   is   a   question   of   training   and   
practice.  The   "I  am  I"  of  the  person  who  lives  in  ignorance  
does  not  differ  from  that  of  the  mystic.  Do  you  understand  
what 1 am  saying?  It  is not a  question of discovering  the "I"  but  
of    expressing  it.  This  is  the  purpose  of  the  Research  for  Truth,  
to   find  out  who  you  are  and  to  express  yourself  as  you  ought  
to.  I  tell  you,  you  will  discover that  you  grow  neither  bigger nor 
smaller.  The  field  of  vision  of  receiving  impressions  may   get   
bigger  but  you  are  you  as  you  have  always  been.'  
When  Daskalos  completed  his  sentence  the  telephone  rang.  
He  walked  up  the  steps  and  we  heard  him  carry  on  a  rather  
loud  conversation.   It  seemed  that  the  call  was  long-distance,  
probably   Athens.   When   he   returned,   ten   minutes   later,   he   
looked  severe.  He  explained  that  a  woman  in  Athens  wanted  to  
find  out  who  stole  forty  thousand  drachmas  from  her  house.  
Daskalos  said  he  could  not  tell  her.  It  would  not  be  proper  to  
say  anything,  nor  did  he have  the  right  to 'see.'  'But without  my  
intentionally  trying  to  see,  I  saw.  How  could  I  tell  her  that  it  
was  her  seventeen-year-old  son  and  her  husband  who  stole  the  
money?  I  just  mentioned  that  it  was  not  a  stranger.'  
After   this   brief   interruption   Zoe   asked   about   Daskalos'   
reputed  powers.  Specifically  she  wanted  to  know  what  exactly  
happened   in   the   case   of   the   scissors   that   had   caused   her   
so      much    fear    during    her    childhood.    Daskalos   burst   out   
laughing   and   marveled   that   she   remembered   the   episode.   
Without   any   hesitation   and   as   if   he   had   experienced   this   
incident  a  short  while  ago,  Daskalos  narrated  what  happened.  
'A   young  doctor  from  Famagusta  came  to  me  one  day  and  
told  me  that  he  had  lost  a  pair  of  tailor's  scissors.  He  searched  
for   them   for   months   but   in   vain.   The   scissors   were   very   
precious  to  him  because  it  was  his  only  inheritance  from  his  
late  father  who  had  been  a  tailor.  He  suspected  his  sister  who  
insisted,  however,  that  she  was  innocent.  On  several  occasions  
he  quarreled  with  his  sister  and  exchanged  bitter  words.  He  
said  he  hadn't  talked  to  her  for five months.  His  wife  remained  
neutral  in  this  dispute  but  she  also  suspected  her  of  stealing  the  

57 THE AUTHENTICITY OF EXPERIENCE 
scissors  while  her  brother  was  drunk.  
'He  asked  me  to  help  him  find  them.  At  first  I  refused  and  
sent  him  away.  I  thought  his  problem  was  nonsensical  and  one  
should  not  misuse  these  powers.  But  after  he  left  I  had  second  
thoughts.  I  realized  that  it     was  not  a  matter  of  a  pair  of  scissors  
but  a  dispute  between  two  people,  brother  and  sister.  When  I  
went  to  bed  this  issue  was  still  in  my  mind.  I  closed  my  eyes  
and  I  saw,  on  the  top  of  a  closet  under  a  folded  cotton  blanket,  
the  pair  of  scissors.  He  must  have  placed  them  there  and  forgot  
it.     A  few  minutes  later  I  received  a  phone  call.  He  asked  me  
whether  I  had  changed  my  mind.  All  he  wanted  to  know  was  
whether  his  sister  had  stolen  them  or  not.  "Don't  tell  me  she  
didn't,"   he   said,   "otherwise   they   should   be   in   the   house."   
"They  are  there,"  I  told  him  but  I  did  not  specify  the  location.  I  
advised  him  to  go  to  bed  and  that  soon  he  would  know.  I  then  
left  my  body   and  traveled  to  his  house  forty   miles  away.   I   
thought  of  materializing  a  hand  to  pull  the  scissors  from  under  
the  blanket  and  push  them  onto  the  floor.'  
'Why  did  you  not  tell  him  where  the  scissors  were?'  I  asked.  
'1   wanted  to  experiment,  to  be  playful.  I  made  a  mistake.  
The  closet  was  in  one  room  and  their  bed  in  another.  An  open  
door  linked  the  two  rooms.  The  distance  between  the  chest  and  
their  bed  was  about  sixteen  feet.  The  floor was  made  of wood.  I  
materialized  a  hand,  pulled  the  scissors  from  under  the blanket, 
and  dropped  them  on  the  floor.  I  assumed  they  would  fall  in  
front  of  the  closet.  But  I  was  inexperienced  at  the  time   and   
miscalculated   the   force   I   applied   from   one   dimension   to   
another.  The  scissors  opened  up,  flew  over  to  the  other  room,  
and  like  a  knife,  got  imbedded  on  the  floor  near  their  bed.  The  
noise  woke  them  up.  They  were  only  three  feet from  his  body.  I  
could  have  killed  him.  He  got  very  anxious,  pulled  the  scissors  
from  the  floor,  and  called  me  up.  It  was  eleven-thirty  at  night.  
"Daskale,"  he  said,  "you  nearly  killed  me.  Where  did  you  find  
them  and  why  did  you  dart  them  so  close  to  my  body?"   I   
explained  to  him what  had  happened but  he  did  not  believe  me.  
He  got  into  his  car  and  came  to  Nicosia  with  the  scissors.  He  
insisted  that  his  sister  was  the  thief  and  that  I  dematerialized  
the   scissors   from   her   house   and   rematerialized   them   in   his   
bedroom.  It  took  me  some  time  to  make  him  understand  what  
had  happened.'  

58 THE  AUTHENTICITY  OF  EXPERIENCE  
Such  phenomena  are  no  longer  allowed,  Daskalos  repeated.  
Power   should   be   used   only   for   healing.   When   one   uses   
'materialization'  for  moving  objects,  one  has  to  be  extremely  
careful.  The  intensity  of  the  force  applied  may  be  ten  times  
stronger  than  when  one  uses  his  material  hands.  
'Why  is  this  so?'  I  asked.  
'I   don't  know.  You  can  see  this  with  seances.  Heavy  objects  
are  moved  with  the  concentration  of  several  individuals.'  
Zoe  listened  attentively  to  Daskalos'  story.  There  was  a  look  
of    fascination  in  her  face  as  she  tried  to  assess  the  value  of  his  
experiences.  Yet,  as  if  to  reassure  herself,  she  murmured  that  
for  her  reality  still  rested  in  matter.  
it   is  the  only  thing  that  I  know  exists.  It  is  what  I  can  feel,  
touch,  see,  smell.'  
'There  you  go  again,'  Daskalos  said  laughing.  'You  think  
that   in   order   to   exist   one   must   eat,   drink   and   go   to   the   
bathroom.   There   is   nothing   more   misleading   than   the  five  
senses.' 
'I   am  not  quite  clear  about  the  relationship  between  the  soul,  
the  permanent  personality   and   the   present  personality,'   Zoe   
commented  after  we  calmed  down  from  laughing.  
'The   soul,'   Daskalos   explained,   'is   that   part   of  ourselves  
which  is  pure  and  uncolored  by  earthly  experience.  The  soul  is  
beyond  the  Idea  of  Man,  beyond  all  manifestation.  It  has  never  
been  born  and  it  will  never  die.   It  is  that  part  of  ourselves  
which   is   qualitatively   identical   with   the   Absolute.    If   the   
Absolute  is  the  ocean,  we,  as  souls,  are  drops  in  the  ocean.  
Qualitatively  we   are  like  the  ocean.   The  soul   is  our  divine  
essence,  unchangeable  and  eternal.  The  permanent  personality  
is     that    part    of    ourselves    upon    which    the    incarnational    
experiences  are  recorded  and  are  transferred  from  one  incar-
nation  to  the  next.  The  present  personality  is  made  up  of  the  
noetic,  psychic  and  gross  material  bodies.  It  is  what  ordinary  
people  consider  their  personalities.  The  present  personality  is  
the  lowest  expression  of  ourselves  which  is  constantly  evolving  
and  tends  to  become  one  with  the  permanent  personality.  
'Let us assume,' Daskalos said, 'that the permanent personality 
is    a   large   circle.   Imagine   another   circle   outside   without   a   
periphery.  We  call  that  the  soul  which  is  within  God,  within  
infinity  and  boundlessness.   It  is  always   pure   and  unspoiled.  

59 THE AUTHENTICITY OF EXPERIENCE 
There  is  also  a  small  circle  inside  the  other  two  which  I  call  the  
present   self-conscious   personality.   All   three   circles   have   the   
same   center.   As   the   small   circle   spreads   out,   the   distance   
between  the  periphery  of  the  small  circle  and  that  of  the  larger  
circle  merges  until  the  two  become  one,  the  smaller  circle  being  
absorbed  by  the  larger.  The  point  at  which  the  periphery  of  the  
smaller  circle  rests  is  the  degree  of  one's  perfection.  The  center  
of    the  present  and  permanent  personality,  as  well  as  the  self-
conscious    soul,    is    the    same.    "I    am,"    says    the    present    
personality.  "I  am,"  says  the  permanent  personality.  If  you  ask  
them  both  which  of  the  two  says  "I  am,"  you  will  hear  one  
voice,  "I."  But  which  "I"?  It  is  the  same  voice  with  its  echo.  In  
reality  it     is  the  selfconsciousness  in  its  totality  that  says  "1 am." 
And  it  is  the  experiences  within  gross  matter  that  caused  the  
separation  of  the  two  conditions  within  ourselves.  
'The  more  the  present  self-conscious  personality  opens  up  as  
a  circle,  the  more  the  permanent  personality  penetrates  into  the  
present   personality.   The   higher   you   evolve   on   the   spiritual   
path,  the  greater  the  influence  and  control  of  the  inner  self  over  
the  present  personality.  We  habitually  say,  for  example,  that  
this   man   has   conscience   whereas   another   one   does   not.   In   
reality  there  is  no  human  being  who  does  not  have  a  center.  
The   level   of   conscience   of   an   individual   depends   upbn   the   
extent  to  which  the  present  personality  is  spread  out  inside  the  
permanent  personality.'  
It   was  already  late  in  the  evening.  Daskalos'  liveliness,  how-
ever,  was  at  its  peak.  Discussions  like  these  seemed  to  energize  
him.  I  had  repeatedly  seen  him  come  alive  with  the  start  of  a  
conversation.  He  would  look  totally  exhausted  by  the  end  of  a  
hard  day's  work,  but  the  moment  a  discussion  began  on  meta-
physical  questions,  he  would  become  literally  transformed.  
We  stood  up,   ready  to  leave,  but  my  friend  Stelios  asked  
whether  one  can  create,  with  one's  mind,  anything  one  wishes.  
'Yes,'  Daskalos  replied,  'assuming  that  you  are  within  the  
realm  of  possibilities  and  potentialities.  A  yogi  may  plant a  seed  
of    an  orange  tree  and  with  prayers  and  meditations  he  may  be  
able  to  have  it  grow  much  faster  than  usual.  But  he  could  not  
plant a  seed  of  an orange  tree  and  with  his  mind  make that seed 
grow  into  a  eucalyptus.  You  cannot  work  outside  the  world  of  
ideas,  laws,  causes.  You  can,  however,  do  something  else.  You  

60 
THE  AUTHENTICITY  OF  EXPERIENCE  
may  be  able  to  first  change  the  nuclear  composition  of  a  seed  of  
an  orange  tree  and  make  it     into  a  seed  of  a eucalyptus  and  then  
plant  it     and  get  a  eucalyptus  tree.  This  is  different.  It  is  within  
the  realm  of  possibilities  and  potentialities.'  
'I   have  one  last  question,'  my  inquisitive  friend  said  as  the  
others   headed   towards   the   car.   'What   is   the   purpose   of   
meditation  and  exercise?'  
'The  immediate  aim  is  to  develop  your  psychonoetic  powers  
so    that  you  can  be  of  service  to  your  fellow  human  beings.  The  
ability  to  carry  out  exomatosis  is  a  means  of  psychotherapy,  
not  an  end  in  itself.  The  ultimate  goal  is  to  realize  who  you  are,  
to  become one  with God,  to  become  a  god.  This  is  what we call 
Theosis.  We  are  gods,'  Daskalos  said,  'but we  are  not  aware  of  
it.      We   suffer   from   a   self-inflicted   amnesia.   The   aim,'   he   
reiterated   many   times,   'is   to   reawaken   that  which   we   have   
always  been  and  we  shall  always  be.  This  is  the  purpose  of  the  
Research  for  Truth.'  
'If     that   is   so,'   I   volunteered   to   add,   'then   one's   self-
realization  as  a  god  must  be  something  other  than  a  form  of  
blissful  unconsciousness.  If  I  am  not  mistaken,  this  is  how  the  
Eastern  concept  of  Nirvana  is  often  interpreted.'  
'This   is   nonsense,'   Daskalos   said  forcefully.   'The   idea   of   
redemption  or  liberation  is  a  word that  is  not  desirable  to  many  
because  it  is  assumed  that  it  implies  entering  into  a  state  of  
some  unknowable  bliss.  As  a  good  clergyman  and  friend  once  
told  me,  this  state  hardly  differs  from  a  form  of  stupor  and  
inertia,  "Since  I  will  not  be  able  to  understand  anything,"  he  
said,  "I  will  feel  happy."  That  is  how  he  envisioned  paradise  
and   liberation.   It   is   far   from   the   truth.   Liberation   means   
knowledge    of    and    assimilation    with    the    Truth    through    
experience.  It    means the acquisition of abilities  and psychonoetic 
powers.  The  worlds  become  open  to  ourselves  whether  we  wish  
to   have  impressions  and  experiences  or  whether  we  wish  to  
close   the   doors    of   external   perceptions    and    recede   into   
ourselves,   within   our   divine   self-sufficiency.   Blissfulness   and   
divine   self-sufficiency   are   far   from   being   a   condition   that   
resembles  inertia  and  stupidity  as  many  fantasize.'  
'When  you  become  theosized,'  my  friend  went  on,  'does  it  
mean  that  you  never  incarnate  into  matter  again?'  
'You  can  incarnate  if  you  choose  to  do  so.'  

61 THE AUTHENTICITY OF EXPERIENCE 
'Will  you  then  have  to  start  all  over  again?  Will  you  have  to  
go  through  the  cycles  of  incarnation?'  
'Of  course  not.  That  would  be  pointless.  If  you  choose  to  
return,  you  come  back  as  a  captain  of  the  boat  and  not  like  a  
common  sailor,'  Daskalos  replied  and  laughed.  'Masters  who  
attain  Theosis  may  decide  to  incarnate  into  matter  in  order  to  
help  their  fellow  human  beings  evolve.. They  are  not  obligated  
by    Karma    to    return.    They    have    already    attained    their    
liberation.  We  shall  talk  about  these  issues  in  greater  detail  in  
the  future.  I  believe  your wife  is  getting impatient waiting in  the  
car.' 
We  thanked  Daskalos  for  the  evening  and  Zoe  expressed  the  
desire  to  continue  the  conversation  sometime  in  the  future,  in  
the  meantime,  1  am  going  to  have  a  long  talk  with  my  father,'  
she  murmured.  
We  all  got  into  the  car  and  decided  to  spend  the  rest  of  the  
evening  at  a  local  cafe.  

5 
Karma 
'Daskale,'  1  asked,  'is  it  possible  to  avoid  Karma?'  
'Yes,  definitely  so,'  Daskalos  responded  without  hesitation.  
'We  can  clearly  see  this  in  the  case  of  Jonah.  God  tells  the  
prophet  that  Nineveh  has  become  so  sinful,  that  it  has  created  
such  evil  elementals,  that  it     is  to  be  destroyed  in  three  days. The 
prophet  went  to  the  Ninevites  and  announced  to  them  the  bad  
news.  The  people  cried  and  repented.  When  the  three  days  had  
passed Nineveh  was  not destroyed.  The prophet was embittered. 
"God,"  he  said,  "you  proved  me  a  liar  in  the  eyes  of  these  
people." 
'According  to  the  law  of  Karma  Nineveh  should  have  been  
destroyed. Jonah  in  a  sense  was  right.  Yet  it    was  not  destroyed.  
The  people  repented.  They  learned  their  lesson.  Jonah  later  had  
that    beautiful    dialogue   with   God,   after   Jonah    found   his   
pumpkin  plant  on  the  ground  one  night,  eaten  up  by  a  worm.  
"God,"  Jonah  sighed,  "my  pumpkin  plant  is  ruined  and  I  am  
sad."  And  then  God  replied,  "You  are  sad  over  the  loss  of  a  
pumpkin plant.  How  should  I  feel  losing  a  whole  city?  Should  I  
let  the  law  of  Karma  destroy  my  city?"  
'The  grandeur  of  Divine  Mercy  cannot  be  conceived  by  our  
brains.  This  does  not  mean  that  there  is  no  law  of  cause  and  
effect.  When  there  is  no  repentance  that  would  allow  Divine  
Mercy  to  intervene,  payment  will  have  to  come,  in  full,  sooner  
or    later.  It  may  take  centuries,  but  it  will  come.  Christ  put  it  
quite  correctly  when  he  said  that  even  a  single  glass  of  water  
that  we  offer  to  someone  will  eventually  be  returned  to  us.'  
Daskalos  appeared  pensive  and  then,  after  a  few  moments'  
pause,  he  continued  with  a  severe  tone  in  his  voice.  
'We  Christians,  Catholics  and  Orthodox  alike,  get  into  the  
habit  of  making  a  mockery  of  ourselves  and  of  God.  We  have  
the  audacity,  with  three  candles  that  we  light  in  church,  even  to  
demand  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven.  What  are  we  offering,  and  
62 

KARMA 
63 
what  are  we  asking  in  return?  I  am  telling  you  that  I  respect  
and  prefer  an  atheist who  cuts  in  two  the  only piece  of bread  he  
has  and  gives  one  piece  to  a  hungry  stranger  without  expecting  
any  future  rewards.  I  see  this  "atheist"  much  closer  to  God  and  
the  Christ  Logos  than  someone  who  may  give  a  lot  but  who  is  
bargaining  with  God.  To  me  most  of  the  charities  given  today  
seem  to  be  more  an  expression  of  egotism  than  of  good.  We  see  
a  lot  of  people  who  appear  to  be  charitable  but  who  in  reality  
do   so   in  order   to  humiliate   their  fellow   human   beings   and   
prove   to   themselves   and   to   others   that   they   are   superior.   
Whatever  charity  one  gives,  one  should  do  it  secretly.  Send  an  
anonymous  envelope  to  someone  in  need,  put  thirty  pounds  in  
it   and  write  nothing  else  except  "with  my  Love."  We  must  try  
to   get  rid  of  our  egotism  completely.'  
There  was  silence  for  a  few   moments   during  which   time   
everybody   seemed   pensive,   pondering,   I   suppose,   on   what   
Daskalos   had   just   said.    Emily,   who   was   sitting   next   to   
Daskalos,  broke  the  silence.  
'Daskale,'   she   asked,   'in   what   way   will   you   answer   the   
argument  of  someone  that  the  effort  to  teach  the  law  of  cause  
and  effect  is  not  an  attempt  to  impose  a  system  of  ethics  so  that  
humans  will  become  better?  How  are  you  going  to  persuade  
such   an   individual   that   Karma   is   not   yet   another   ethical   
system?' 
i  have  been  asked  this  question  before.  My  answer  was  this:  
study  your  actions,  see  what  you  pay,  look  around  you  to  see  
what  is  happening,  and  arrive  at  your  own  conclusions.  Things  
are  so  clear around  us  in  our society  that this  sophistry is  rather  
superficial.  If  you  cannot  see  today,  you  will  see  tomorrow  or  
the  day  after.'  
'But  you  have  not,'  Emily  insisted,  'answered  this  person's  
rational  argument.'  
'Just   a   minute,'   Daskalos   said   in   reply,   'the   great   truths   
cannot  always   be   answered   with   words   just   as   you  cannot  
answer  the  question  of  the  existence  of  God  Himself.  There  are  
so  many  things  that  you  cannot  answer  with  words,  with  logic.  
You  can  answer  these  questions  through  your  own  experience  
by  observing  the  results  of  your  actions.  There  is  no  way  you  
can  avoid  observing  the  results  of  your  actions.  Sooner  or  later  
you  will.  So  you  don't  believe  in  Karma?  When  you  get  two  or  

64 KARMA 
three  lashes  from  Karma's  whip  you  will  know  it  because  you  
will  feel  the  pain.'  
'This  person,'  Emily  continued,  'will  bring  you  the  following  
argument,   "I   may   not   believe   in   your  God   and   the  ethical  
system  which  you  call  Karma,  but  I  believe  in  humanity."  '  
'You  can  ask  him  this,'  Daskalos  responded  quickly,  'why  
should  you  believe  in  humanity?'  
'Because,'  Emily  replied,  'he  also  believes  the  world  should  
get  better.'  
'Why?'   Daskalos   continued,   with   an   almost   mischievous   
look  in  his  face,  'Why  should  it  get  better?  Now  I  can  guide  
him  where  I  want  him  to  be.  Why  should  one  believe  so?'  
'Because  he  believes  in  the  good,'  Emily  said.  
'You  can  persuade  such  an  individual  with  his  own  logic  and  
arguments,'  Daskalos  said,  in  an  atheist  who  does  not  believe  
in   an  imaginary  god  like  most  people,  I  may  see  the  Divine  
inside  him.'  
'Perhaps,'  Emily  continued,  'in  such  a  person  you  may  see  a  
Researcher   of   Truth   who   is   searching,   however,   through   a   
different  path.'  
'Very  true,'  Daskalos  said.  'There  are  many  paths  toward  
our  ascent  to  God.  It  is  not  only  those  who  have  been  initiated  
into  the  mysteries  who  are  searching.  I  am  telling you  that there 
are  persons  who  have  never  heard  of  the  phrase  Research  for  
Truth  and  who  may  even  be  atheistic  and  yet  at  a  higher  step  
on  the  spiritual  path  than  many  of  us.  We  should  judge  people  
not  on  the  basis  of  their  beliefs  but  on  the  basis  of  their  actions.  
But  I  have  this  to  add.  I  am  not  aware  of  anyone  who  sincerely  
struggles   toward   the   Truth   who   has   not   eventually   been   
enlightened.  Remember  Christ's  words,  "Ask  and  you  shall  be  
given,   knock   and   you   shall   be   answered."  '  Then,   with   an   
abrupt  change  in  the  tone  of  his  voice  as  if  he  remembered  
something,  Daskalos  said,  'Let  me  tell  you  of  an  encounter  I  
had  with  a  famous  British  philosopher  who  had  the  reputation  
of    being  an  atheist.  In  a  correspondence we  had  for some  time  I  
elaborated  to  him  on  the  nature  of  elementals.   One  time  he  
wrote  to  me:  "In  the  gods  of  the  priests,  of  whatever  religion,  I  
cannot   believe.    You    explained   to   us   that   these   gods   as   
elementals  have  power.  I  accept  that.  Thought  must  be  a  form  
of    power.  But  the  gods  that  were  produced  by  the  thought  of  

KARMA 65 
man  I  cannot  accept  as  gods.  I  can  accept  them  as  supports  that  
men  create  to   cope   with  their  difficulties.   But  you   raise  the  
question,   who   created   Man   who   creates   gods:.   You   have   
explained  to  us  a  lot  of  things  about  what  you  call  Absolute  
Beingness.   But   why  not  call  it  Absolute  Being?"   I  answered  
him,   "The  term  Absolute  Being  implies  limits.   But  Absolute  
Beingness  is  more  correct.  I  break  the  limits."  What  do  you  
think  he  replied?  "I  believe  in  this  Absolute  Beingness  of  yours  
which   is   not   God,   but   the   Beingness   in   you   and   me.   Its   
expression  is  kindness  and  all  that  we  believe  and  understand  
as    good.  Now,  you  can  show  a  god  far  from  the  witnesses  of  
men.  Because  all  the  gods  that  men  have  created  have  human  
characteristics   of   weakness   and  evil.   Now   you   show  a  god  
which  you  call  Reality,  you  call  Life.  In  this  I  believe.  But  why  
call  it  God?  Yes,  I  like  the  words  Absolute  Beingness."  
'Now,  is  this  man  an  atheist?  Answer me!'  Daskalos  said in  a  
loud  voice.  
'But  he  has  the  reputation,'  I  said,  'that  he  is  an  atheist  and  
wrote  eloquent  apologetics  on  the  subject.'  
'Because   he   rejected   all  those   gods   and   christs  that  men  
created   "Onward   good   Christian   soldiers   marching   to   the   
war,"'  Daskalos  said  with  a  mocking  tone  in  his  voice,  gesti-
culating  with   his  hands.   'The   man   could  not  tolerate  these.  
He  was  a  pacifist.  He  believed  in  Love.  How  I  succeeded  with  
this  philosopher  was  to  help  him  accept  "Absolute  Beingness"  
which  is  Life,  which  is  Love.  In  his  last  letter,  written  to  me  
before  he  died,  he  said:  "You  are  the  only  human  being  who  
has  lighted  the  torch  of  Reality  and  Light,  and  Wisdom.  For  
this   Absolute   Beingness'   sake,   hold   it   high   and   light   the   
World."  '  
Just  after  Daskalos  finished  speaking  a  car  stopped  outside  
and  we  soon  heard  a  knock  on  the  door.  I  hardly  remember  a  
time   when   I   would   go   to   Daskalos'   house   without   having   
visitors  arrive  seeking  his  services.  
I  opened  the  door  and  invited  the  strangers  in.  They  were  a  
middle-aged  couple  from  Larnaca  who  asked  Daskalos  for,  a  
diagnosis  of  a  relative  who  was  incurably  ill.  
'Do  you  have  a  picture  of  him?'  Daskalos  inquired.  
They  must  have  known  how  Daskalos  worked  because  they  
readily  provided  a  photograph  of  the  patient.  Daskalos  took  

66 
KARMA 
the  picutre,  held  it  tightly  in  his  right  hand  and  closed  his  eyes.  
After  about  a  minute  of  concentration  he  opened  his  eyes.  
'The  problem,'  he  said,  'is  in  his  brain.  There  is  something  
there  that  should  be  removed.'  
'The  doctor,'  said  the  man  as  he  put  away  the  picture,  'did  
not  mention  anything  about  a  brain  tumor.'  
'There  is  something  there,'  Daskalos  insisted  categorically.  
'He   should   have   an   encephalograph.'   The   visitors   thanked   
Daskalos  for  his  time  and  left.  
After  Daskalos   returned   to   his  armchair   and   was  getting  
ready   to   continue   our   discussion   I   asked   him   whether   the   
affliction  of  that  man  was  due  to  karmic  debts.  
'All  illnesses  are  due  to  Karma,'  Daskalos  replied,  it  is  either  
the  result  of  your  own  debts  or  the  debts  of  others  you  love.'  
'I    can   understand   paying  for  one's   own   Karma   but  what  
does  it  mean  paying  the  Karma  of  someone  you  love?'  I  asked.  
'What  do  you  think  Christ  meant,'  Daskalos  said,  'when  he  
urged  us  to  bear  one  another's  burdens?  
'Karma,'  Daskalos  explained,  'has  to  be  paid  off  in  one  way  
or    another.  This  is  the  universal  law  of  balance.  So  when  we  
love  someone,  we  may  assist  him  in  paying  part  of  his  debt.  But  
this,'  he  said,  'is  possible  only  after  that  person  has  received  his  
"lesson"   and  therefore  it  would  not  be  necessary  to  pay  his  
debt   in   full.   When   most   of   the   Karma   has   been   paid   off   
someone  else  can  assume  the  remaining  burden  and  relieve  the  
subject   from   the   pain.   When   we   are   willing   to   do   that,'   
Daskalos  continued,  'the  Logos  will  assume  nine-tenths  of  the  
remaining  debt  and  we  would  actually  assume  only  one-tenth.  
Thus  the  final  debt  that  will  have  to  be  paid  would  be  much  
less   and   the   necessary   pain   would   be   considerably   reduced.   
These   are  not  arbitrary  percentages,'   Daskalos   insisted,   'but   
part  of  the  nature  of  things.  
'Suppose,'  Daskalos  went  on,  'someone  who  has  killed  a  lot  
of    people  through  several  of  his  incarnations  has  been  loved  by  
another  person.  A  loving  bond  has  been  established  between  
them  through  the  centuries.  That  person  may  willingly,  whether  
consciously  or  unconsciously,  accept  some  of  the  Karma  of  the  
loved  person,  assuming  again  that  most  of  the  debt  has  already  
been  paid off by  the other person who,  in  the  meantime, has  re-
ceived  the  necessary  lesson.  Otherwise  it  will  not  be  permitted.  

KARMA 
67 
'Whatever    happens    to    us,'    Daskalos    said    slowly    and    
emphatically,  'which  in  this  life  causes  us  pain,  is  either  the  
result  of  our  own  debts  or  the  result  of  our  readiness  to  pay  off  
the  debts  of  loved  ones  whose  Karma  may  be  too  burdensome  
to   carry  by  themselves.  When  you  become  masters  and  are  able  
to   coordinate  yourselves  with  the  universal  Good,  you  will  be  
in   a  position  to  assume  the  Karma,  not  only  of  loved  ones,  but  
also  of  persons  who  are  considered  to  be  your  enemies.  As  
masters  you  may  be  in  a  position  to  stop  the  pain  in  your  own  
body  but  you  will  do  nothing  because  by  narcotizing  the  pain  
in   your  body   you   will   automatically   return   the  pain  to  the  
person  for  whom  you  have  assumed  the  Karma.  Christ  showed  
us   the way  when  he  was  crucified  and  suffered on  the  Cross  like  
an  ordinary  person.  
'When  you  reach  a  higher point  in  your  evolution,'  Daskalos  
continued,  'the  Logos  may  require  from  you  that  you  do  just  
that,  bear  the  Karma  of others,  even  your  enemies.  You  are  the  
channel  of  the  Logos  and  you  should  consider  it     an  honor  to  be  
so    burdened.  You  may  ask,  "And  what  is  my  reward  for this?" 
The   moment   you   ask   such   a   question   it   means   that   your   
egotism  is  alive  and  very  dangerous.  The  honor  that  is  being  
offered  to  you,  to  put  your  shoulders  under  those  of  the  Logos,  
is   the  greatest  reward.'  
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  'can  you  give  us  an  example  from  your  
own  personal  experience  of  how  you  have  assumed  someone  
else's  Karma?'  
'Karma  is  the  most  difficult  thing  to  understand,'  Daskalos  
replied,  it  always  puzzles  me.'  Then  he  proceeded  to  narrate  a  
personal  experience.  
'Several  years  ago  a  nephew  of  mine  asked  my  opinion  as  to  
whether  he  should  marry  a  certain  widow.  I  told  him,  "You  
will  have  my  blessings  assuming  that  you  genuinely  love  not  
only  the  widow  but  also  her  daughter  who  was  seven  years  old  
at    the time."  He  said  he  did  love  the  girl  and  I  realized  that  he  
meant  it.  I  was  best  man  at  their  wedding.  In  a  year's  time  they  
had  a  son  but  with  a  serious  birth  defect  which  the  doctors  
were  unable  to  correct.  The  baby  was  born  with  his  two  legs  
glued  to  his  chest.  They  came  to  me.  I  took  the  child  in  my  
arms  and  I  immediately  realized  who  he  was.  Theophanis  was  
with  me  that  day  and  he  also  understood.  I  asked  him  not  to  

68 
KARMA 
mention  anything  to  the  others.  I  told  the  parents  that  I  would  
take  up  the  cure  of their  child.  Slowly,  slowly  I  managed  to  free  
the  legs  and put  them  in  a cast.  Every  few  weeks  we  would  take  
the  cast  off,  massage  the  legs  and  then  put  on  a  new  cast.  The  
boy  was  getting  well  and  the  father  asked  me  to  baptize  him.  
He  was  three  months  old  then.  
in   the  meantime  one  morning  as  I  was  walking  from  my  
house  to  the  Sanctum  I  stepped  on  something  and  felt  pain.  
When  I  went  to  my  room  I  took  off  my  shoe  to  find  out  what  
had   happened.   My   granddaughter   was   with   me.   She   said,   
"Grandpa,  look.  Your  foot  is  black."  I  then  realized  what  had  
happened.  I  was  paying  off  the  Karma  of  the  little  child.  My  
granddaughter   ran  to  her  mother.  She  came  right  away  and  
drove  me  to  the  hospital.  The  chief  surgeon  looked  at  my  leg  
and  his  diagnosis  was  gangrene.  The  leg had  to  be  amputated.  I  
gave  my  consent.  The  gangrene  had  already  reached  my  knee.  
The  operation  was  to  take  place  the  following  day.  I  checked  
into  the  hospital  in  a  room  facing the  river.  I  told  the  doctor the 
day  before  the  operation  that  I  needed about an  hour  and  a  half  
to   be  alone  in  the  room  because  every  afternoon  I  meditate.  
The  doctor  did  not  object.  So  I  was  left  alone.  I  sat  on  my  bed  
gazing  at  the  door   facing  the  river.   I   smiled  and   addressed   
myself  to  the  Logos:  "If  you  think  I  am  going  to  beg  you  to  
save  my  leg,  get  it     out  of  your  mind.  This  is  my  leg  and  this  is  
your  leg,"  '   and  Daskalos  pointed  at  his  right  leg.   '  "If  you  
think  that  it  should  be  cured,  let  it  be  cured.  If  you  think  it  
should  be  cut,  let  it  be  cut.  Thy  Will  be  done,  my  Love."  At  
that  moment  when  I  finished  my  sentence  I  felt something  like  a  
breeze  kissing  my  cheek.  Suddenly  I  saw  an  angel  sitting  at  the  
edge   of   the   bed   holding   my   injured   leg   in   one   hand   and   
stroking  it  with  the  other.'  
'Had  there  been  anybody  else  in  that room,'  I  interjected,  'do  
you  think  he  could  have  seen  the  same  angel?'  
'I   don't  know,'  Daskalos   replied,  shrugging  his  shoulders.  
'Perhaps  yes,  perhaps  no.  I  certainly  saw  him.  He  appeared  to  
me  like  a  very  handsome  lad  dressed  in  white.  No  wings  or  
feathers.  He  was  not  paying  any  attention  to  me.  He  just  kept  
stroking  my  leg.  After  he  was  finished,  he  disappeared,  and  so  
did  the  gangrene.  The  next  morning  the  doctors  came,  ready  
for the  operation.  They  looked  at my  leg  in  surprise.  There  was  

KARMA 
69 
only  a  small  black  spot  left  at  the  top  of  my  toe.  In  one  more  
day  all  the  gangrene  was  gone.'  
Daskalos  then  proceeded  to  explain  the  karmic  connection  
between   himself   and   the   baby   whose   baptism   had   to   be   
postponed  for  a  week  until  Daskalos  had  recovered  from  his  
ordeal. 
'Several   centuries  ago,'   Daskalos   began,  'this  baby  was  a  
sailor  in  the  Byzantine  navy.  He  was  a  poor  man  who  had  to  
spend  months  and  sometimes  even  years  away  from  his  wife,  a  
very  beautiful  woman.  During  one  of  his  voyages  a  Byzantine  
aristocrat  set  his  eyes  on  his  wife  and  started  having  an  affair  
with  her.  When  the  sailor  returned  she  abandoned  him  for  her  
lover.  In  his  bitterness  and  rage  he  joined  a  group  of  pirates  
who  eventually  made  him  their  leader.  With  their  three  boats  
they  became  a  menace  to  Byzantium  and  other  ships.  
'At  that  time  I  was  Italian,  the  son  of  the  charge  d'affaires  of  
Venice  to  Constantinople.  I  lived  in  Venice  with  my  mother  
who  was  estranged  from  my  father.  So  every  two  years  I  would  
make  the  trip  from  Venice  to  Byzantium  to  see  my  father.  In  all  
my   travels   to   Constantinople   I  was   always  escorted  by   my   
governess,  a  fat  old  woman.  During  one  of  these  trips,  on  our  
return  home,  just  as  our  boat  was  passing  by  Sicily  we  were  
attacked  by  these  pirates.   I  was  then  sixteen  years  old.  The  
Byzantine  pirates  took  off  my  clothes,  which  were  embroidered  
with  gold,  and  dressed  me  in  rags.  My  governess  was  put  to  
death  along  with  other  older  passengers.  They  had  no  use  for  
them.  They  took  the  rest  of  us  who  appeared  young  and  strong  
to   their  stronghold  in  order  to  sell  us  as  slaves.  Their  base  was  
a  town  on  the  Moroccan  coast.  They  had  their  tower  there.  It  
was  a  slave  market  for  both  men  and  women.  A  black  Arab  
bought  me  after  he  checked  my  teeth  to  see  whether  I  was  fit.  
As  I  was  being  led  away  I  looked  back  and  felt  affection  for  
that  Byzantine  pirate.  I  can't  explain  why.  
'I   was  in  slavery  for  three  years.  The  living  conditions  were  
deplorable.  My  hair  was  falling  out.  I  turned  yellow  and  lost  
many   of   my   teeth.   I   got   very   sick.   When  the  pirate   boats   
arrived  again,  my  Arab  master  took  me  to  the  Byzantine  pirate  
and  demanded  his  money  back.  The  pirate  protested.  He  said,  
"This  is  not  the  way  I  sold  him  to  you.  I  expected  you  to  use  
him  as  your  personal  servant  and  not  to  let  him  get  sick  like  

70 
KARMA 
this."  They  quarreled  for  awhile  and  then  the  Byzantine  pirate  
gave  something  to  the  Arab  and  took  me  back.  I  sat  on  a  rock  
and  let my body  rest on  a  low  wall.  I  looked into  the  eyes  of the 
pirate   and   said,   "How   could   you   do   this   to   me,   a   fellow   
Christian?  Why  couldn't  you  at  least  have  taken  me  as  your  
personal  servant?  How  could  a  Christian  like  you  sell  me,  a  
Christian?"    He    shouted    angrily   at   me,   "You   are   not    a    
Christian.  You  are  a  Frank  [Catholic],"  and  struck  me  on  the  
face.  In  his  rage  he  signaled  his  men  to  finish  me  off.  As  they  
jumped  on  me,  piercing  their  swords  into  my  belly,  he  changed  
his  mind.  Apparently  his  conscience  awakened  after  what  1  had  
said  to  him.  He  rushed  to  stop  the  others  from  what  they  were  
doing  but  it  was  too  late.  I  departed.  He  then  took  my  body,  
folded  the  rag  in  which  I  had  been  dressed,  kissed  it     and  put  it  
into  his  chest.  After  that  he  wrapped  me  in  clean  white  clothes  
and   took   me   to   an   Orthodox   priest   for   burial.   Byzantine   
pirates,'  Daskalos  went  on  to  explain,  'used  to  set  up  colonies  
of    their  own  along  the  Moroccan  coast  and  had  among  them  
priests  who  had  either  been  defrocked  by  the  Church  or  were  
rebels  of  one  sort  or  another.  
'This  priest  refused  to  carry out  the  burial  rites  because  I  was  
a  "Frank."  The  pirate  then  buried  me  himself  and  read  all  the  
appropriate  prayers.  He  put a  cross  on  my  tomb  and  stood  vigil  
all  night  long.  Then  he  decided  to  give  up  piracy.  He  gathered  
whatever  jewelry  and  money  he  could  carry  and  asked  one  of  
his  men  to  take  over  the  leadership.  He  told  them  he  was  tired  
of    piracy  and  had  decided  to  settle  down.  I  could  see  him  from  
the  psychic  worlds  and  felt  compassion  for  him.  He  then  went  
to   another  Orthodox  priest  in  Sicily  and  confessed.  He  asked  
the  priest  to  give  him  a  robe  because  he  had  decided  to  become  
a  hermit.  He  took  the  robe  and  went  off.  Every  night  he  would  
use  my  clothes  as  his  pillow.  A year  and  a half  later he got  sick.  
His  belly  expanded  and  he  died.  I  have  never  met  him  since.  
'As  far  as  I  know  that  was  the  first  time  I  met  him.  The  
second  time  is  now,  as  this  baby.  God  only  knows  how  much  
Karma  he  must  have  paid  along  the  way,  with  all  the  murders  
and  plunders  he  had  committed  as  a  pirate.  
'When  I  went to  baptize him,'  Daskalos  continued,  'the  baby  
behaved   in   a   rather   strange   way.   He   took   my   finger   and   
wouldn't  let  go.  He  kept  crying  and  looking  into  my  eyes.  He  

KARMA 
71 
even  pressed  his  lips  against  my  cheek  as  I  was  holding  him  
close  to  me.  His  father  said  it  was  the  first  time  his  baby  had  
kissed  anyone.  
'Notice  how  Karma  worked  in  this  case,'  Daskalos  said  in  
concluding  his  story.  'He  once  shouted  at  me  that  I  was  not  a  
Christian  and  ordered  his  men  to  kill  me.  In  this  life  I  assumed  
part  of  his  Karma,  I  cured  him  and  became  his  Godfather  in  
Christ.' 
'Some  poetic  justice!'  I  exclaimed.  
'You  bear  the  Karma  of  your  fellow  man  only  when  you  
want  to,'  Daskalos  repeated.  
Then  in  his  characteristic  manner  Daskalos  began  to  recount  
another  experience  he   had  had  as   an   illustration  on  how  a  
master  can  assume  the  Karma  of  another.  
'Six   years   ago   a   relative   of   mine   was   to   have   his   hand   
amputated.  He  had  a  wife  and  four  children. Just  before  he  was  
about  to  have  the  operation  I  experienced  a  strange  pain  in  my  
arm.  Theophanis,  who  was  in  Paphos,  felt my  pain,  got into  his  
car  and  came  to  see  me.  Again  I  had  gangrene,  this  time  in  my  
hand.  Following  the  blood  tests  the  doctor  concluded  that  it  
had  to  be  cut.  Theophanis  left  his  job  and  sat  by  my  bedside  
day   and  night.   I   remember  one  day,  when  the  wife  of  the  
British  High  Commissioner  was  at  my  house  (she  used  to  come  
because  of  the  case  of  one  of  her  relatives),  and  while  I  was  
lying  in  my  bed,  there  was  a  knock  on  the  door.  A  Turkish  
woman   came   dragging   in   her   body,   she   could   not   walk   
properly.  She  said,  "I  heard  Spyro  Efendi  [master  in  Turkish]  
very  sick  and  came  here  to  have  him  cure  me  before  he  dies."  
They  tried  to  send  her  away  but  when  I  was  told  about  it  I  
asked  them  to  let  her  in.  She  climbed  the  steps  with  difficulty  
and  came  to  my  room.  I put  my hand over her and  asked her to 
stand  up  and  walk.  She  did  as  I  told  her  and  started  walking  
upright.  "Efendi,"  she said,  "now  I  am fine. Now you  can  die  if  
you   wish,"  '   and   Daskalos   roared  with   laughter   as   he   was   
reminiscing  over  the  incident.  
'As  soon  as  the  Turkish  woman  left,'  Daskalos  continued,  'I  
asked  Theophanis  to  cover  my hand  with  the  white  sheet.  Then  
I  placed  the  good  hand  over  the  sick  and  began  my  own  cure.  
First  I  prayed  to  the  Logos.  Then  I  kept  passing  the  good  hand  
over  the  sick  one,  over  and  over.'  Daskalos  demonstrated  to  us  

72 
KARMA 
how  he  did  it  by  passing  his  left  hand  over  his  right  hand.  
i  kept  dematerializing  and  rematerializing  tissue  after  tissue  
until  I  created  an  entirely  new  hand.  Then  I  removed  the  sheet  
and  showed  the  hand  to  Theophanis.  My  hand  was  completely  
cured.  Theophanis  began  to  cry,  he  knelt  down  and  kissed  my  
arm. The  next morning the  doctor  came.  He  looked  at  my  hand  
and   shook   his   head.   "You've   done   it   again,"   he   said,   not   
knowing  what  to  make   of  me.   My   hand  was  not  cut.   The   
Karma  had  been  paid  off  and  my  relative's  arm  was  saved.'  
After  Daskalos  finished  telling  us  these  stories  he  mentioned  
that  he  was  planning  to  take  up  another  Karma  that  may  cost  
his  life.  I  protested.  He  said  to  me,  'Were  you  to  know  who  
that  person  is,  you  would  understand.  I'll  tell  you  later,'  he  
said,  inferring  that  he  did  not  wish  to  talk  to  me  about  it  in  
front  of  the  others.  
We  stood  up  to  leave,  thanked  Daskalos  for  the  lesson,  and  
began  walking  toward  the  door.  As  we  were  coming  out  he  
asked  me  to  stay  behind  because  he  had  something to  tell  me.  I  
did.   The   others   were   already   in   the   car   waiting   for   me.   
Daskalos  said  the  person  he  was  talking  about  was  his  son-in-
law.  The  doctors  discovered  a  liver  ailment  that  could  cost  his  
life.  His  son-in-law,  Daskalos  went  on,  got  this  illness  from  a  
friend  of his.  This  friend,  who  was  living  in  London,  called him 
on  the  phone  and  begged  him  to  help  him  because  he  was  
having  a  serious  liver  disease.  His  son-in-law,  Daskalos  said,  
told  his  friend  reassuringly  on  the  phone,  'Don't  worry.  We'll  
do  everything  we  can  to  save  you  and  if    we  can't,  then  I'll  take  
up  your  Karma!'  
'I   was  listening  to  their  conversation,'  Daskalos  said,  'and  
when  I  heard  him  say  this  I  yelled  at  him  to  shut  up  but  it     was  
too  late.  Now  do  you  realize,'  Daskalos  continued,  'why  I  must  
take  up  his  Karma?  I  can't  allow  my  daughter  to  become  a  
widow  so  young  and  let  my  grandchildren  become  orphans.  
My  son-in-law  is  thirty-six  years  old.  I  am  sixty-six.  It  makes  
more  sense  that  I  go  should  there  be  a  choice.'  Daskalos  looked  
sad  at  the  prospect  of  seeing  his  daughter  a  widow.  He  said  he  
had  already  begun  the  prayers  in  the  Sanctum.  
'Hopefully,'   he   continued,   'Yohannan   will   take   up   this   
burden  and  I  won't  have  to  go  as  yet.'  Then  Daskalos  implored  
me  not  to  mention  anything  to  Iacovos  lest  he  try  to  stop  me  by  

KARMA 
73 
assuming   the   Karma   himself   that   had   to   be   paid.   'But,'   
Daskalos   went   on,   i   am   afraid   he   is   beginning   to   suspect   
something.' 
When  Theophanis  came  in  the  following  day  I  asked  him  to  
describe  to  me  exactly  what  had  happened  the  day  Daskalos  
cured   himself.   He,  repeated   the   same   story,   including   the   
incident  with  the  Turkish  woman.  Daskalos  was  not  present  
when  I  conversed  with  Theophanis  about  this  incident.  

6 
Memories 
Daskalos  and  Iacovos  arrived  at  our  home  in  the  early  evening  
to   have  supper  with  us.  We  had  no  agenda  to  discuss  anything  
specific  but  I  knew  that  with  Daskalos  there  could  be  no  dull  
moments.   I  remember  how  much  I  laughed  one  night  when  
Daskalos  narrated  one  hilarious  incident  after  another.  I  was  
still  laughing  when  I  reached  home  and  the  laughter  severely  
irritated  my  throat.  
It   was  Friday,  three  weeks  before  Easter.  I  had  completely  
forgotten  that  in  the  Greek  Orthodox  religion  this  was  a  period  
of     fasting.    Believers   were   expected   to    avoid    meat,    meat    
products,  poultry,  fish,  even  milk,  cheese  and  eggs.  I  wondered  
whether   Daskalos   followed   these   nutritional   guidelines    of    
Orthodoxy  as  the  dinner  we  prepared  was  hardly  vegetarian.  
'A   priest  eating  chicken  during  Holy  Week  was  caught  by  a  
bishop,'  Daskalos  mused  as  he  worked  on  a  crispy  wing  of  the  
roasted  chicken.  '  "Your  Grace,"  the  priest  said  to  the  annoyed  
bishop,  "each  Sunday  I  transform  bread  and  wine  into  the  body  
and  blood  of  Christ.  Why  can   I  not  transform  chicken  into  
vegetables?"  '  
On  that  note  Daskalos  began  to  reminisce  on  his  turbulent  
reladonship  with  the  Greek  Orthodox  hierarchy.  Twenty-five  
years    ago    Daskalos,    at    the    instigation    of    several    Greek    
theologians,    was    labeled    by    the    Cypriot    bishops    as    an    
instrument  of  the  devil  and  was  brought  in  front  of  a  religious  
tribunal  for  his  excommunication.  The  tribunal  was  composed  
of   the bishops  and  six  theologians  from  Greece. The Archbishop 
was  on  an  extended  tour  of  the  United  States  and  Europe.  
'They  accused  me  of  using satanic  powers  to  perform  acts  of  
magic.  They  even  claimed  that  I  forced  my  daughter  to  dance  
on  a  rope!  These  bishops  and  a  few  archimandrites  knelt  in  
front  of the  Holy  Altar  day  and  night  anathematizing  my  name.  
During  the  proceedings  one  of  the  bishops  asked  me  whether  I  
74 

MEMORIES 
75 
was  in  contact  with  spirits.  "Yes.  What  is  wrong  with  that?"  I  
replied.   "Had  you  known  your  Bible  well,  you  should  have  
known  that  there  is  nothing  wrong  in  contacting  the  spirits."  
Then  he  asked  me  to  raise  my  right  arm  and  repeat  after  him,  
"I   believe  in  one  God,  Father  Almighty,  Maker  of  Heaven  and  
Earth  and  of  all  things  visible  and  invisible...."  They  assumed  
that had  I  been  the  devil  I  would not  be  able  to  recite  the prayer 
and  mention  God's  name.  1  raised  my  arm  as  he  instructed  me  
and  said  the  prayer.  After  I  finished  I  lost  my  patience.  "These  
fools,"  I  exploded,  and  pointed  my  finger  at  the  stern  faces  of  
the  six  theologians,  "are  poisoning  our  church.  You  had  better  
send  them  back  where  they  came  from  because  what  happened  
today  is  a  disgrace  to  the  church."  '  
Fortunately  for  Daskalos  Archbishop  Makarios  cancelled  the  
proceedings.   When   he  learned  about  what  his   bishops  were  
doing  in  his  absence  (he  was  in  America  at  the  time),  he  sent  a  
cable  instructing  that  they  should  'stop  the  nonsense'  until  his  
return. 
'The  Archbishop  told  me  later  not  to  be  bothered  by  those  
"half-crazed  illiterate  bishops."  '  
'Why   would   the   Archbishop   interfere   on   your   behalf?'   I   
wondered. 
'He  was  my  friend,'  Daskalos  said  with  a  foxy  smile.  He  
then  revealed  to  us  that  the  Archbishop  regularly  received  taped  
talks  and  messages  from  Daskalos.  
After  our  conversation  on  Daskalos'  adventure  with  the  local  
clergy   the   conversation   shifted   to   Daskalos'   early   life.   His   
father,  I  was  somewhat  surprised  to find out,  was  half  Scot  and  
half Greek.  After  a  successful  career  as  an  admiral  in  the Briti#i 
navy  his  father  was  knighted  by  the  king.  Daskalos  inherited  
this  aristocratic  title  but  repudiated  it  and  returned  it  to  the  
British   throne   in   protest   against   the   maltreatment  of  Greek  
Cypriots  by  the  British  colonial  authorities  during  the  under-
ground  guerrilla  war  of  the  1950s.  
'My   father   was   a   tough   rigid   man   who   showed   little   
outward  affection  towards  me.   He  wished  to  make  a  British  
military  officer  out  of  me  and  demanded  that  all  of  us  in  the  
family  speak  English  instead  of  Greek.  I  resented  this  pressure,  
but,  desperately  craving  my  father's  affection  and  approval,  I  
joined  the  British  army  and  became  an  officer.  I  remember  the  

76 
MEMORIES 
day  I  completed  my  training  and  returned  home  dressed  up  in  
my  uniform.   Everyone  remarked  how  tall  and  handsome  an  
officer  I was.  I  looked  at  myself in  the  mirror  and  all  I  could  see  
was  a  belted  mule,'  Daskalos  concluded,  roaring  with  laughter.  
'When  I  completed  my  training  I  visited  my  father  in  his  
office.  I  expected  a  warm  welcome  but  received,  instead,  cool  
instructions  from  his  secretary  to  wait  for  him.  When  I  entered  
his  office  an  hour  later  he  was  as  distant  and  aloof  as  ever.  He  
asked  me  to  have  a  seat  and  then  offered  me  a  cigarette.  I  was  
terribly  distressed  when  he  began  to  address  me  as  "Captain."  
"Have  a  cigarette,  Captain."  "No  thank  you.  I  do  not smoke  in  
front  of  my  father,"  I  replied.  After  I  returned  home  I  informed  
my  mother  that  as  far  as  I  was  concerned,  my  father  was  dead.  
I  locked  myself  into  my  room,  took  off  my  uniform  and  belts,  
threw  everything  on  the  floor  and  stepped  over  them  with  rage.  
When  my  father  returned  home  he  came  to  my  room.  "Here  is  
your  Captain,"  1  said,  sobbing  and  pointing  at  the  mess  on  the  
floor.  "Behave  yourself,  Captain,"  he  said,  without  any  trace  of  
emotion.  What  an  English  iceberg,  1  thought  to  myself.  In  spite  
of  everything  I  still  loved  him.  To  have  him  as  a  father  was  like  
going  through  six  incarnations,'  Daskalos  added,  laughing.  
it    is   difficult   for   me   to   identify   any   traces   of   English   
upbringing  in  your  personality,'  I  marvelled.  
'This  shows,'  Daskalos  responded  quickly,  'that  environment  
does   not   play    the   determining   role   in   the   formation   of   
personality  as  most  of  you  social  scientists  assume.'  
He  then  went  on  to  point  out  that  he  particularly  objected  to  
his  parents'  aristocratic  pretenses.  His  mother,  although  Greek  
herself,  behaved  like  an  English  lady,  and  his  parents'  circle  of  
friends   revolved   around   the   British   governor's   mansion.   To   
escape  the   suffocating  atmosphere  of  his  home  he  spent  the  
summers  during  his  teenage  years  at the  Stavrovouni  monastery,  
an  ancient  citadel  renowned  for  its  austerity  and  located  at  the  
very  top  of  a  precipitous  mountain.  According  to  legend,  Saint  
Helena,  Emperor  Constantine's  mother,  left  a  piece  of  the  Holy  
Cross  behind  her  during  a  visit  to  the  island.  Daskalos  had  
access  to  the  monastery  because  the  abbot  was  his  uncle.  
'One  day  in  July  my  parents  came  to  visit  me  there.  They  
wanted  to  know  how  I  was  spending  my  time.  That  day  I  was  
out  in  the  fields  working  with  other  monks.  I  was  dressed  in  a  

MEMORIES 
77 
worn-out  black  robe,  sweat  mixed  with  dust  covering  my  body.  
My  parents  were  instructed  where  to  find  me.  I  was  working  
with  a  plow   pulled  by  two  oxen   when  I   saw  them  coming  
towards  me.  At  first  they  failed  to  recognize  me  as  I  wore  a  hat  
and  my  face  was  hidden.  They  were  both  impeccably  dressed.  
My   mother   wore   an   expensive   hat   and   high   heels.   They   
expected  to  find  me  sitting  comfortably  under  the  shade  of  an  
olive  tree  reading  a  book.  When  I   raised   my  head  and   my   
mother  realized  who  I  was,  she  fainted  in  my  father's  arms.  
Right   then   I   explained   that   I   could   no   longer   follow   their   
lifestyle  which  I  considered  meaningless.  Fortunately  I  had  the  
good  sense  not  to  join  the  monastery.  I  could  not  cope  with  so  
much   filth.'   
An  old  tradition  at  Stavrovouni  required  of  the  monks  never  
to   wash  themselves  lest  they  wipe  away  the  holy  oil  by  which  
they   were   anointed   at   their   baptism.   Any   washing  of   their   
bodies   was   done  through   excessive  sweating  and  subsequent  
rubbing  with  towels.  It  is  said  that  the  Archbishop  refused  to  
pay  a  formal  visit  to  the  monastery  until  all  the  monks  had  a  
good  wash.  The  abbot  promised  to  carry  out  his  wish.  When  
the  Archbishop  arrived  he  greeted  him  at  the  gate.  'Behold your 
Beatitude,  I  am  now  clean,'  the  abbot  said.  He  then  placed  his  
fingers  in  a  bowl  of water  carried  by  an  attendant  and  sparingly  
sprinkled  his  face.  
When  we  finished  dinner  we  moved  to  our  balcony  covered  
with    jasmine    bushes    and    overlooking    a    small    forest    of    
eucalyptus  trees.  In  the  meantime  I  put  a  Beethoven  symphony  
on   the   record   player,   Daskalos'   favorite   composer,   while   
Iacovos  volunteered  to  prepare  Turkish  coffee.  
'Daskale,'   I   began,   in   anticipation   of   further   revelations   
about  Daskalos'  life,  'I  was  quite  surprised  to  learn  that  you  
took  part  in  the  anti-colonialist  movement  against  the  British.  I  
suppose  a  psychologist  would  say  that  it     was  an  expression  of  a  
latent  hostility  against  your  father  who  after  all  tried  his  best  to  
transform   you   into   a   proper   Englishman.   But   I   am   really   
puzzled  that  a  healer  and  a  man  of  God  like  yourself  could  
participate  in  an  underground  movement  labeled  by  the  British  
as    terroristic.'  
'Do  you  think  I  joined  the  movement  for  patriotic  reasons?'  
Daskalos  responded  with  irony.  He  then  reminded  me  that  a  

78 
MEMORIES 
Researcher  of  Truth  can  only  be  involved  in  politics  for  the  
sake  of  serving  a  higher  cause.  He  should  never  participate  in  
political   life   for   either   personal   gain   or   for   what   ordinary   
people  call  patriotism.  
'My   involvement   with   EOKA   [the   underground   guerrilla   
organization  supported  by  the  Church,  that  fought  the  British  
in  1955-9]  was  in  reality  play-acting.  I  joined  to  save  as  many  
lives  as  possible.  More  Englishmen,  Greeks  and  Turks  would  
have  been  killed  had  I  remained  aloof.'  Daskalos  then  narrated  
the   various   ways   he   intervened   to   save   lives.   It   was   an   
extremely   difficult   and   risky   task   that   often   created   deep   
anxiety   and   moral   dilemmas   for  him.   A   particular   incident   
caused   so   much   anguish   that  for   a   while   Daskalos   became   
confused  on  the  question  of  right  and  wrong.  These  categories  
became  blurred  in  his  mind,  he  claimed.  
'When  I  learned  that  several  underground  chiefs  known  to  
me  were plotting the  assassination  of  a  man  considered to  be  an  
informer,   I   intervened   vigorously   and   changed   their   minds.   
Several  years  later  just  after  the  attainment  of  independence  this  
same  person  killed  several  people,  was  arrested  and  hanged.  I  
was  in  a  psychic  turmoil  for  twenty  days,  not  knowing  whether  
I   had   acted   correctly   when   I   saved   his   life.   Finally,   one   
afternoon  while  I  was  meditating  in  the  Sanctum,  I  heard  the  
voice  of  Yohannan.  "When  you  do  good  to  a  human  being,"  he  
said,  "you  are  not  negotiating  with  him  on  his  future  behavior.  
He  alone  is  totally  responsible  for  his  actions.  Your  intentions  
were  good.  You  did  good.  It  is  not  for  you  to  judge  the  future.  
This  belongs  to  God  and  to  Karma."  '  
When  ethnic  strife  between  Greeks  and  Turks  broke  out  in  
1963,    three    years    after    the    declaration    of    independence,    
Daskalos  again  found  himself  in  the  midst  of  the  turmoil.  
'Because  I  had  military  training  I  was  assigned  to  a  small  
contingent   of   militiamen   that   made   up   part   of   the   Greek   
defenses.  I  was  with  Pashie  [fat]  Kostes,  the  late  police  chief,  at  
Omorphita  [a  Nicosia  suburb  where  severe  clashes  took  place  
during  the  Christmas  period  of  1963],  I  carried  a  pistol  in  my  
belt  and  had  a  machine  gun  inside  the  car.'  
'You  mean  to  say  you  would  have  used  those  guns  against  
the  Turks?'  I  inquired,  without  trying  to  hide  my  incredulity.  
Somehow    the    image   of   Daskalos    roaming   the   streets   of   

MEMORIES 
79 
Omorphita  with  a  pistol  in  his  hand  did  not  seem  very  likely.  
i  would  never   use  guns  against  anyone,'  Daskalos  replied  
laughing. 
'What  if  you  were  attacked?'  
in   fact  at  one  point  I  was  alone  with  Pashie  Kostes  and  we  
were  surrounded  by  forty  Turkish  lads.  We  were  chased  for  a  
while  and,  to  save  ourselves,  we  had  to  jump  over  a  high  wall  
trying  to  hide  from  a  river  of  bullets.  Pashie  Kostes  had  a  hard  
time  going  over  the  wall  because  he  was  so  fat.  We  used  to  joke  
and   call   each   other   "Captain."   It   was   such   a   tragic   farce!   
"Well,  Captain,  what  do  we  do  now?"  I  said  to  him  when  it  
seemed   that   we   were   trapped   behind   that   wall.   We   began   
shooting  in  the  air  in  the  hope  of  scaring  the  Turks  away.  I  
would  never  fire  at  them.  We  were  finally  rescued  by  Anastasia,  
a  wild  woman  from  the village  of Kythrea.  She  came  along  with  
her  "boys"  and  chased  the  Turks  away.'  
'How  come  you  did  not  use  your  special  powers  to  defend  
yourself?'  I  asked.  
'Psychic   powers   should   not   be   used   for   such   mundane   
reasons.   The   invisible   masters   will   not   permit   it.   I   used   
clairvoyance  only  once  during  those  troubled  days  in  order  to  
save  lives.  I  gave  strict  orders  to  my  men  never  to  attack  and  
never   to   fire   against   anybody    unless   their   lives   were   in   
imminent  danger.  
'A   pompous  Greek  officer  came  to  our positions  and  ordered  
my  men  to  attack  a Turkish  stronghold  because  he  believed,  the  
fool,  that  the  Turks  were  either  asleep  or  they  were  not  there.  I  
quarreled  with   him  for  a  while  and   told   him   that  what  he  
suggested  was  lunacy.  I  threatened  that  I  was  going  to  report  
him  to  his  superiors  because  he  was  endangering  the  lives  of  
those  men.  In  my  own  way  I  saw  that  the  Turks  were  on  full  
alert   and   had   the   Greeks   moved   they • would   have   been   
butchered.  "Why  don't  you  throw  a  few  stones  against  those  
positions   and   see  what  happens?"   I   suggested.   He  did.  The  
Turks,  thinking that  we  were  attacking,  began  a  barrage  of  fire.  
They  threw  everything  they  had  at  us.  Later  on  they  abandoned  
their  position  and  retreated.  I  then  said  to  the  Greek  officer,  
"Now  you  can  capture  the  fort  and  get  the  credit.  We  are  not  
interested." 
'When  the  troubles  ended,  Makarios,  in  a  formal  gathering  

80 
MEMORIES 
at    which  I  was  present,  praised  me  for  being  a  "true  Greek  
patriot   and   a   Cypnot."   "Just   a   minute,   your   Beatitude,"   I   
interrupted  in  protest,  "I  am  neither  a  patriot  nor  a  Greek,  least  
of    all  a  Cypriot.  The  only  reason  I  was  at  the  front  line was  for  
the  protection  of  your  mothers  and  sisters.  Nothing else."  That  
is   another  form  of  craziness,'  Daskalos  said  laughing,  'but  at  
least  it  is  not  as  stupid  as  patriotism.  
'That  same  night,'  Daskalos  went  on,  'a  well-known  woman  
philologist  who  played  a  role  in  the  struggle  against  the  British  
stood   up   and   very   proudly   announced,   "We   women,   your   
Beatitude,  have  also  shed  our  blood  for  our  country."   I  just  
could  not  resist  the  temptation.  I  leaned  towards  Makarios  and  
murmured   in   his  ear,   "Yes,   your  Beatitude,   they  shed   their   
blood  once  a  month,"  and  the  Archbishop  burst  with  laughter  
and  spilled  the  wine  he  was  sipping.'  Daskalos  leaned  back  in  
his   armchair   and   held   his   hands   over  his   stomach   as   if   to   
prevent   it   from   bursting   as   he   roared   with   laughter.   'The   
philologist  refused  to  talk  to  me  for  the  next five  years.  We  are  
now  good  friends  and  her  sister  is  a  member  of  my  circles.  
'I   have  had  problems  with  patriotism,'  Daskalos  went  on,  
'ever  since  I  was  a  child.  I  remember  one  day  our  teacher  was  
lecturing  on  Greek  history.   He  described  how  the  Byzantine  
emperor,   Vasilios   Vulgaroktonos,   pulled   out   the   eye   of   a   
thousand  Bulgarian  prisoners  except  one  whom  he  left  with  one  
eye  to  guide  his  compatriots  back  home.  We  were  told  it     was  a  
way  to  terrorize  the  Bulgarians  so  that  they  would  stop  their  
attacks  on  Byzantium.  When  I  heard  that  story  I  stood  up  and  
shouted,  "Shame."  "Are  you  saying  Greek  history  is shameful?" 
my  teacher  said  angrily.  "Shame,  shame!"  I  shouted  again  at  
the  top  of  my  voice.  He  grabbed  me  by  the ear  and  sent  me  out  
of    the  room.  When  the  principal  heard  of  the  incident,  he  gave  
instructions  that  I  was   to   be  excused  from  that  course.   He   
tutored  me  on  the  subject  himself  and  spared  me  from  Greek  
history.   1   could   not   tolerate   hearing   such   horrible   deeds   
presented  as  acts  of  patriotism.'  
Daskalos   then   stood   up,   pulled   his   shirt   upwards   and   
showed  us  an  old  wound  on  his  back  that  he  suffered  during  
the  critical  days  of  1963.  The  bullet  was  still  inside  the  flesh.  1  
touched  the  spot  of  the  wound  and  felt  it.  Daskalos  did  not  
bother  to  have  it     extracted  because  it     did  not  bother  him.  There  

MEMORIES 
81 
was  fat  all  around  the  bullet  and  there  was  no  danger  of  an  
infection.  'Besides,'  he  added  with  humor,  'when  I  die  I  would  
like  to  take  this  bullet  as  a  gift  to  God.  I  will  tell  Him,  "God,  
here  is  a  token  of  man's  craziness."  
'The  late  Muftizate,  a  Turkish  Cypriot  notable,'  Daskalos  
went on,  'called  me  up  one  day.  "Spyro,  let's go  to the Tekke  [a  
Moslem  shrine].  The hojah  claims  that  he  is  able to  make  beans  
dance  all  by  themselves."  We  drove  to  Larnaca,  to  the  Tekke,  
together.  The  hojah  was  very  excited.  He  made  a  circle  in  the  
middle  of  the  yard  and  placed  inside  it  a  handful  of  beans.  
Then  he  recited  certain  prayers.  The  beans  began  dancing.  He  
didn't  know,  of  course,  what  was  happening.  They  were  nature  
spirits  from  the  garden  playing  with  the  beans.  I  communicated  
with  these  spirits  and  asked  them  to  come  to  me.  The  beans  
came   and   moved  around   my  face.  The  hojah   was   terrified.   
"Stay  away   from  this  Giavour   [derogatory  Turkish   term  for  
Greek],"   he  told  my  friend,   "he   has  satanic  powers,"  '   and   
Daskalos  giggled.  
'What  are  the  nature  spirits  doing  there?'  I  asked.  
'They  were  the  nature  spirits  from  the  garden.'  
Daskalos  explained  that  every  plant  has  an  angel  which  is  a  
projection  of  an  archangelic  source.  It  is  a  spirit  that  keeps  the  
plant   alive.   When   the   plant   dies   this   angel   transfers   the   
experience    of    the    plant    to    the    archangel.    This    is    how    
information   passes   on   from   one   generation   of   species   to   
another. 
'Nature  spirits  are  playful,  like  little  children.  If  you  don't  
know  how  to  handle  them  they  can  harm  you  but  not  out  of  
malice.  Like  little  children,  they  can  harm  you  in  an  innocent  
way.  When  one  communicates  with  a  plant  or  an  animal,  one  
actually  communicates  with  the  angel  in  charge  of  that  plant  or  
animal. 
i  had  such  great  times  with  my  Turkish  friends,'  Daskalos  
said   sadly.   In   fact,   before   the   outbreak   of   inter-communal   
violence,  Daskalos  held  a  circle  of  students  on  the  Turkish  side.  
He  knew  Turkish  and  even  passed  the  entrance  examinadons  of  
Istanbul  University,  just  for  the  fun  of  it.  The  lessons  for  his  
Turkish  students  were  based  on  Sufi  traditions  and  Daskalos,  
instead  of  the  New  Testament,  used  the  Koran  extensively.  On  
several   occasions   he   told   me   how   much   he   cherished   his   

82 
MEMORIES 
friendships  with  many Turks,  including  some  of  their  leaders.  It  
was    rumored    by    many   Turkish    folk   that   'Spyro   Efendi'   
was  in  reality  a  Moslem  prophet  whom  God  had  sent  to  the  
infidel  Greeks  for  their  salvation.  In  better  times  many  Turkish  
Cypriots  would  come  to  Daskalos  for  healing.  
He   proceeded   to   narrate   several    more   episodes   of   his   
entanglement  with  the  ethnic  conflict  on  the  island.  I  had  long  
realized   that   whenever   Daskalos   was   describing   a   personal   
experience,  either  of  a  serious  or  comic  nature,  or  both,  he  was  
simultaneously  trying  to  give  a  lesson  to  his  listeners.  There  was  
always  a  moral  behind  each  story.  
'While  I was  with  my  men  watching  over the Turkish  sector,'  
Daskalos   went   on,    'I   heard   the    cry   of   an   infant   which   
continued  for  almost  two  days.   I  discovered  that  a  Turkish  
mother  was  trapped  with  her  baby  inside  a  house  somewhere  
between  the  two  sides.  They  were  out  of food  and  the  baby  had  
no  milk.  I  grabbed  a  loud  speaker,  raised  a  white  flag  and  tried  
to   contact  the  Turks  on  the  other  side.  "Is  that  you,  Daskale?"  
I  heard  someone  shouting.  I  recognized  the  voice.  It  was  Fikret,  
one  of  my  Turkish  students.  "Fikret,"  I  shouted  back,  "is  that  
you?"  "Yes,  yes,  Daskale.  Do  you  see  what  the  bigwigs  have  
done  to  us?"   I  discovered  that  Fikret  was  the  leader  of  that  
group  of Turks  opposite  to  our position.  "Fikret,"  I  said,  "I  am  
going  to  get  some  milk  for  the  Turkish  mother.  Tell  your  men  
to   hold   fire."   Fikret  shouted  back,   "Daskale,   you  will  come  
alone,    Okay?"    "Okay,    Fikret."    I    bought    three    cans    of    
concentrated   milk,   took   a   white   flag   and   went   under   the   
balcony  of  the  house  where  the  woman  was  stranded  with  her  
infant.  I  heard  Fikret  giving  orders  to  his  men  that  if  anybody  
shot   at   me   he   was   going  to   kill   him   himself.  The  Turkish  
woman  came  on  the  balcony  and  I  threw  the  cans  of  milk  to  
her.  "Thank  you,  thank  you,  Daskale,"  she  said,  "God  be  with  
you."  Apparently  she  must  have  learned  of  my  name  when  I  
was  conversing  with  Fikret.  As  I  was  getting  ready  to  return  to  
our  positions  a  huge  Turk  appeared  on  the  corner  holding  a  
shotgun.  The  woman  screamed  at  me  to  watch  out.  I  tried  to  
hide  but  he  had  already  fired  and  several  small-shots  hit  me.  I  
fell  on  the  ground  and  I  immediately  heard  another  shot.  It  was  
Fikret  who  shot  and  wounded  his  compatriot.  He  ran  towards  
me  and  asked  whether  I  was  all  right.  He  suggested  taking  me  

MEMORIES 
83 
to   their  hospital.  I  said  no.  I  preferred  to  be  taken  to  a  hospital  
on  the  Greek  side.  Fikret  then  volunteered  to  escort  me  back  to  
our  lines.  I  called  on  my  men  to  hold  their  fire.  Fikret  helped  
me  walk.  My  wounds  were  not  serious.  When  we  reached  the  
Greek  line  I  introduced  Fikret  to  the  others  and  asked  them  to  
shake  hands  with  him.  I  introduced  him  as  one  of  my  students.  
At  that  moment  crazy  Sampson  [a  notorious  gunman]  came  by.  
He  was  upset  that  I  was  friendly  to  a  Turk  and  murmured  
nasty  words.  I  demanded  that  he  shake  hands  with  Fikret.  He  
refused.  "Shake  hands,  you  jackass,"  I  shouted  at  him.  With  a  
heavy   face   he   offered   his   hand.   Then   I   said   to   everybody   
present  to  hold  their  fire  and  let Fikret  return  to  bis  post.  Before  
he  left  we  made  a  pact  that  no  matter  what  happened  in  other  
sectors  of  the  city  we  would  not  fire  at  each  other.  Neither  a  
Greek  nor  a  Turk  died  in  that  area.'  
Ten   years   after   the   above   episode   took   place,   when   the   
Turkish  army  invaded  Cyprus,  Daskalos  was  again  in  the  midst  
of    events.  His  house  was  filled  with  refugees  for  several  weeks,  
and  mothers  would  flock  to  Strovolos  with   pictures  of  their  
missing  sons.  
'One  day,'  Daskalos  reminisced,  'a  woman  came  to  me  with  
the  picture  of  her  son.  The  moment  I  took  it  in  my  hand,  I  
realized  he  was  dead.  I  did  not  want  to  tell  her  so  because  she  
appeared  extremely  distressed.  I  just  said,  "Lady,  I  am  really  
tired  today  and  I  cannot  concentrate."  She  broke  down  and  
began  crying.  "You  are  lying,  Daskale,"  she  said.  "My  son  is  
dead.  Last  night  I  saw  him  in  my  dream  and  he  was  waving  
goodbye  to  me.  Farewell,  Mother.  I  am  going  on  a  long journey 
and  I  am  not  sure  when  I  will  see  you  again."  Her  dead  son  
visited  her  in  her  dream  with  his  etheric  body  just  before  he  
was  about  to  ascend  into  the  psychic  planes  where  he  will  rest  
until  his  next  incarnation.  
'On   another   occasion,'   Daskalos   continued,   i   managed,   
with  the  assistance  of  the  United  Nations,  to  contact  a  Turkish  
officer  who  I  believed  had  information  about  the  whereabouts  
of    a  missing  Greek  Cypriot.  
'Several  Turkish  Cypriot  soldiers  who  manned  the  barricade  
and  could  overhear  our conversation  asked  me  whether  I  was  a  
Turk.  They  could  not  figure  out  what  a  Turk  was  doing  in  the  
Greek  sector.  I  replied  to  them,  "What  is  the  difference  whether  

84 
MEMORIES 
I  am  a  Greek  or  a  Turk?"  "A  Greek  is  a  Greek  and  a  Turk  is  a  
Turk,"  someone  shouted.  "No,"  I  said,  "Greeks  and  Turks  are  
all  angels."   "Angels  Efendi?"  a  Turkish  soldier  asked.  "Yes,  
angels,"  I  replied.  I  grabbed  his  cheeks  with  my palms  and  said,  
"You  are  an  angel,  my  love."  "Me?  An  angel?"  "Yes,  you."  
They  found  out  that  I  was  "Spyro  Efendi"  and  were  excited.  
One  of  them  asked  me  to  bless  him.  I  recited  a  Moslem  prayer,  
placed  my  hand  over  his  forehead  and  said,  "Let  no  bullet  ever  
strike  you."  He  kissed  my  hand.,  "Spyro  Efendi,"  he  said,  "I  
shall  never  fire  against  my  Greek  brothers.  If  I  am  ever  ordered  
to    shoot   I   will   aim   over   their   heads."   I   then   crossed   the   
barricades  and  returned  to  the  Greek  side,'  Daskalos  concluded  
and  leaned  back  in  his  chair.  
'Some  time  ago,'  Daskalos  went  on,  as  he   began  another  
story,   'a   twenty-year-old   girl,   a   refugee   from   the   village   of   
Vatili,  sought  my  help.  She  was  pregnant  and  the  father  was  a  
fellow-villager,  a  Turk.  She  said  that  during  the  invasion,  just  
before  the  Turkish  tanks  entered  her  village,  all  the  Greeks  got  
into  buses,  cars  and  tractors  and  fled  south.  In  the  confusion  
she  was  left  behind.  But  Orchan,  a  Turkish  Cypriot  she  knew,  
took  her  to  his  home  for  protection.  He  lived  with  his  parents  
and  the  three  of  them  were  very  kind  to  her.  They  kept  her  
hidden  for  several  weeks.  But  their  secret  was  beginning  to  be  
known  and  they  were  afraid  that  she  was  bound  to  be  molested  
by   the   Turkish   officers   once   she   was   discovered.   Orchan   
suggested  that  they  get  married,  on  paper,  until  they  found  a  
way  to  send  her  south.  It  was  assumed  that  if     they  were  defined  
as    married  the  officers  would  not  be  able  to  harm  her.  The  girl  
accepted and  they went through the Moslem  wedding ceremony. 
But  they  lived  separately.  Orchan  kept  his  promise  and  never  
laid  hands  on  her.  The  arrangement,  however,  did  not  work.  
The  Turkish  officer  in  charge  of  the  village,  who  had  his  eyes  
on  the  Greek  girl,  suspected  that  the  marriage  was  fake.  In  the  
meantime  a  strong  bond  of  love  grew  between  the  Greek  girl  
and  Orchan.  One  night  she  entered  his  room  in  her  nightgown.  
"I    am  your  wife,"   she  said  to  him,  "make  me  yours."  From  
then  on  they  lived  like  husband  and  wife.  But  in  the  meantime  
an  agreement had been  reached  between the Cyprus  government  
and  the  Turkish  forces  of  occupation.  It  specified  that  all  the  
Greek  women  who  were  trapped  in  the  north  should  be  sent  to  

MEMORIES 85 
their  relatives  in  the  south.  Armed  with  this  pact  the  Turkish  
officer  in  charge  forcefully  separated  the  couple  and  sent  the  
girl  to  the  Greek  sector.  It  was  at  this  point that  she  visited  me.  
After  a  lot  of effort  I  managed  to  contact  Orchan  on  the  phone.  
He  was  in  tears  and  pleaded  with  me  to  look  after  his  wife  and  
his  unborn  baby.  He  did  not  expect  that  he  could  have  his  wife  
back.  1  said  to  him  that  I  would  do  everything  in  my  power  to  
bring  them  together  again.  Some  people  may  think  that  what  I  
did  was  treason.  I  told  the  girl,  "Orchan  is  your  husband.  Go  
to   him  and  live  among the Turks.  They  are your people now."  I  
realized   that   she   was   deeply   in   love   with   her   husband.   I   
managed  to  get  a  special  permit  and  with  a  United  Nations  
escort  I  sent  her  back  to  him.'  
After    ending   his    story    Daskalos    lamented   on   the   sad   
predicament  currently  prevailing  between  the  Greeks  and  Turks  
of    the  island.  One  day  at  a  gathering  with  his  students  he  urged  
them   not   to   look   towards   the   Turkish   Cypriots   as   their   
enemies.  'Search  inside  yourselves,'  he  said,  'and there  you  shall  
find  the   real   enemy.'   Whatever   happens   to   a   people   is   not   
accidental  but  the   result   of  collective  Karma.   If  a  tribe,  for  
example,  in  its  history  has  been  warlike  and  plundered  other  
nations,  the  elementals  of  destructiveness  that  were  generated  
at    that  rime  will  sooner  or  later  catch  up  with  that  tribe  under  
different  historical   circumstances.  Just   as   there   is   individual   
Karma  there  is  also  collective  Karma,   and  the  people  living  
within  a  group  or  a  nation  are  under  the  karmic  debts  of  that  
nation.  It  is  imperative,'  he  admonished,  'to  break  the  vicious  
cycle  of  creating  destructive  elementals.  Of  primary  importance,  
therefore,  for  Greek  Cypriots  is  to  foster  no  ill  will  towards  
their  Turkish  compatriots,  but  extend  to  them  a  genuine  hand  
of    friendship.'  
'Daskale,  can  you  tell  us  who has  influenced  you  most in  this  
life?'  I  asked  just  after  we  had  ended  a  short  discussion on  local  
politics  and  Greco-Turkish  relations.  
Daskalos   thought   for   a   moment   and   then   repeated   that   
throughout  his  life  he  had  been  guided  by  invisible  masters  like  
Father   Yohannan,    Father    Hilarion    and   Father   Dominico.   
Nevertheless   there   was   one   man   that   Daskalos   met   in   his   
twenties  who  apparently  helped  him  in  his  spiritual  path.  He  
was  an  Indian  colonel,  a  surgeon  who  served  in  Cyprus  during  

86 MEMORIES 
the  Second  World  War  years.  Daskalos  claimed  that  it  was  the  
masters  from  the  'other  side'  who  literally  guided  him  to  meet  
this  Indian  doctor  and  become,  for  a  while,  his  assistant  in  the  
operating  room.  
The  relationship  that  Daskalos  cherished  most,  however,  in  
his   present   life,   was   with   a   boyhood   friend   killed   by   the   
Germans  in  Casablanca  during  the  Second  World  War.  Their  
friendship  was  established  while  Daskalos  was  in  junior  high  
school   at   the   American   Academy   in   Lamaca,   a   secondary   
school  set  up  by  American  missionaries.  Phivos,  his  friend,  was  
three  years  his  senior  and  played  the  role  of  protector  for  his  
younger  and  less  robust  friend.  Daskalos  described  how,  on  
many  occasions,  Phivos  would  rescue  him  from  being  beaten  up  
and  abused  by  other  boys.  
At  the  invitation  of  an  expatriate  uncle,  Phivos  eventually  
migrated  to  the  United  States  to  study  literature.  So  strong  was  
their  friendship  that  Daskalos  was  making  plans  to  migrate  to  
the  United  States  himself.  'We  joked,'  he  said,  'about  how  we  
would  marry  two  sisters  so  that  we  could  always  be  near  each  
other.   But   it   was   not   to   be.   Phivos   was   drafted   into   the   
American  army  and  was  sent  tO  Casablanca  where  he  met  his  
death.  The  moment his  friend  died,  Daskalos  said  he  felt it.  In  a  
vision  he  saw  him  lying  on  the  ground  smeared  with  blood.  
Then  Phivos  came  to  Daskalos  with  his  etheric  body.  
'He  came  and  stood  next  to  my  bed.  "Spyro,"  he  said,  "I  
came  to  say  goodbye  to  you.  We  will  not  see  each  other  for  a  
long  time."  He  then  disappeared.  I  sat  in  my  bed  and  began  
crying  and  wailing  for  my  lost  friend.  To  relieve  my  pain  I  
composed  a  poem  right  at  that  very  moment.'  
'Do  you  remember  it?'  I  asked  earnestly.  
'I   remember  it     as  vividly  as  when  I  composed  it     even  though  
I   never  put  it   down  on  paper.'   At  my  instigation  Daskalos  
started  slowly  to  recite  the  poem,  a  homage  to  his  boyhood  
friend.   It  was   as  if  he  relived  the  pain  he  experienced  four  
decades  ago.  
Winter  night,  sad  and  dreary,  
let  the  tempest  and  the  gale  
overflow  your  leaden  sky.  
A  love  is  dying  tonight  

MEMORIES 
87 
the  glow  of  the  flame  
weak  and  trembling,  
the  time  to  expire  has  come.  
Winds  and  thunder  strike  the  sky,  
rain  drops  linger  
at    the  corners  of  the  eye.  
Inside  me  a  storm,  a  quivering  despair  
quenches  dreams  and  hopes.  
Night  depart!  
The  darkness  heavy  and  oppressive  
stifles  me  with  threads  of  death.  
A  love  is  dying  tonight  
at    his  side,  a  mourning  candle  burns.  
'Are  you  now  in  contact  with  your  dead  friend?'  I  asked  
after  a  few  moments  of  silence.  
'Yes.  He  is  in  this  room,'  Daskalos  replied  with  a  smile.  I  
assumed    he    meant    that    Phivos,    as    spirit    living    in    the    
psychonoetic worlds,  was  somehow  attuned  to and  in  communi-
cation   with   Daskalos.   I   immediately   realized,   however,   that   
Daskalos   was   pointing   at   Iacovos   who   had   a   difficult   time   
hiding   some   traces   of   tears   in   his   eyes,   left   over   from   the   
emotional  thrust  of  Daskalos'  poem.  
'This  is  Phivos?'  I  asked  in  disbelief,  as  I  looked  at  Iacovos.  
'Yes,  that  is  Phivos,'   Daskalos  nodded  without  hesitation.  
'When  I  look  at  him  it  is  not  just  Iacovos  that  I  see.  For  me  he  
is   also  Phivos,  Giovanni,  Omar,  Rasadat  and  many  others.'  
Daskalos  claimed  that  he  has  been  with  Iacovos  for  over  
twenty  incarnations.  On  several  occasions  he  had  hinted  about  
a  time  in  ancient  Egypt  when  Daskalos,  along  with  Iacovos,  
were  hierophants.  I  had  no  doubt  that  in  Daskalos'  mind  there  
was   no   question   about   the   reality   of   his   reincarnational   
memories.  He  said  to  me  once that  he  can  read  his  past  lives  as  
if   they  were  leaves  from  a  personal  diary.  
'Perhaps  we  can  speak  of  ancient  Egypt  some  other  night,'  
Daskalos  replied  to  my  request.  'But  it  is  already  late  and  we  
have  work  to  do.'  

6 
From  Death  to  Rebirth  
It    was   around   three   in   the   afternoon   when   Iacovos   and   I   
boarded   a   bus  for  Larnaca,   the  southeastern   seaport  of  the  
island.  Daskalos  was  to  have  his  monthly  meeting  there  with  a  
circle  of  disciples.  They  planned  to  meet  at  seven  in  the  evening  
at    'sister  Theano's'  house,  the  'witch  of  Larnaca'  as  Daskalos  
affectionately  referred  to  her,  a  member  of  his  exclusive  inner  
circle.   Daskalos   had   already   gone   to   Larnaca   early   in   the   
morning  to  visit  several  patients  at  the  local  hospital.  
Light  rain  began  to  fall  when  we  boarded  the  bus  at  Liberty  
Square,   the   center   of   Nicosia.   I   felt   tired   from   the   day's   
activities   and   not  wishing  to   arrive   at   Larnaca   exhausted,  I  
closed    my    eyes   and   practiced   a    'concentration-relaxation'    
technique  taught  to  me  by  Daskalos.  Iacovos  silently  sat next  to  
me  as  I  tried  to  block  out  of  my  mind  the  external  world.  
I  made  myself  as  comfortable  as  possible  and  brought  to  
mind  Daskalos'  instructions.  I  concentrated  on  my  entire  body  
as    I  inhaled  and  exhaled  deeply.  I  began  to  feel  and  loosen  up  
every  single  muscle  of  my  body  from  the  top  of  my  head  to  the  
toes  of  my  feet.   I  tried  to  shut  out  any  other  thought  from  
entering  my  mind.  After  about  three  minutes  of  deep  breathing  
I   focused   my   attention   exclusively   at   my   toes   and   began   
slowly  to  move  my  concentration  up  my  body  until  I  reached  
my  navel,  and  solar  plexus.  There  I  envisioned  a  large  white-
blue  ball   of  light  covering   my   abdominal   region   inside   and   
around  my  body.  I  tried  to  keep  my  thoughts  fixed  on  that  
region  for  about  three  minutes.  With  ease  I  inhaled  deeply  a  
few   times   and   without   losing   the   image   of   the   white-blue   
sphere  I  moved  further  up  inside  my  chest  near  the  heart.  I  
imagined  another  ball  of  light  smaller  in  size  radiating  white-
rose  color,  the  center  of  which  was  a  spot  near  the  heart.  The  
two   spheres    interpenetrated   each   other   at   the   edges   but   
maintained  their  distinct  color.   I   remained   in  that  state  for  
88 

89 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
another  three  minutes,  perceiving  white-blue  light  covering  the  
lower  part  of  my  body  and  white-rose  light  the  upper  part  close  
to   my  neck.  Then  I  transferred  my  consciousness  to  the  center  
of    my  skull  and  perceived  a  golden  sphere,  smaller  than  the  
other  two,  enveloping  my  head  and  extending  about  six  inches  
beyond  it  in  every  direction.  I  concentrated  at  each  part  of  my  
head,  as  well  as  inside  it,  for  another  three  minutes.  I  then  
envisioned  my  entire  body  within  a  white  aura  in  the shape of a 
luminous   egg.   After  feeling  every  part  of  my   body  again,  1  
made,   with   my   mind,   the   following   auto-suggestion:   'May   
peace   reign   inside   my   entire   material   body,   and   harmony   
within  my  psychic  body.  May  absolute  tranquility  prevail  in  my  
thoughts.'  Before  coming  out  of  my  meditation  I  spent  three  
more  minutes  breathing  deeply.  
Daskalos  claims  that  this  meditation  exercise  when  practiced  
regularly,  preferably  in  the  morning,  will  have  benign  effects  on  
the   personality.   The  white-blue  color  can   keep  our  material  
body  in  good  health,  whereas  the  white-rose  and  golden  colour  
can  purify  and  keep  in  harmony  our  psychic  and  noetic  bodies  
respectively.  From  my  own  experience  this  exercise  and  similar  
other  meditation  practices  that  Daskalos  taught  me  have  the  
effect  of  immediate  relaxation.  When  I  opened  my  eyes,  on  this  
occasion,  my  fatigue  was  gone  and  I  felt  refreshed.  The  rain  
had  stopped  and  a  rainbow  decorated  the horizon  in  front of us 
like  a  majestic  ornament.  It  was  mid-March  and  the  Cypriot  
countryside  was  at  its  loveliest,  filled  with  myriads  of  red  and  
yellow  wild  flowers.  
In   about  an  hour  we  arrived  at  Larnaca.  Theano's  house  was  
an  old  two-storey  house   facing  the  waterfront.   She  was   an   
affectionate  elderly  woman  in  her  late  sixties  who  welcomed  us  
with  a  grandmotherly  hug  and  kiss.  The  fact  that  I  was  with  
Iacovos  and  had  the  support  of  Daskalos  in  what  I  was  doing  
was  sufficient  to  make  me  automatically  a  'brother.'  Theano,  
Daskalos  mentioned  to  me  earlier,  had  been  his  mother  in  four  
previous  incarnations.  'That's  why  she  is  so  motherly  to  me  
every time  she  sees  me,'  Daskalos  said,  laughing.  In fact Theano 
used  to  address  Daskalos  in  the  same  way  that  adoring mothers 
address  their  little  ones:  'my  golden  one.'  
We  sat  in  the  living room  waiting for Daskalos  and  the  other  
students  to  arrive.  Over  a  piece  of  cake  and  lemonade  Theano  

90 
FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
talked  primarily  of  Pavlos,  her  late  husband,  and  how,  through  
him,  she  had  become  Daskalos'  disciple  and  a  member  of  his  
'inner  circle.'  
Pavlos  was  a  poet  who  had  spent  most  of  his  life  in  Paris.  
There  he  became  interested  in  mysticism.  One  day  he  visited  a  
famous   medium   and   asked   for   information   about   certain   
metaphysical  questions.  The  medium  allegedly  told  him  that  the  
questions  would  one  day  be  answered  by  his  future  master.  He  
will  be  born,  the  medium  told  Pavlos,  on  the  twelfth  day  of  
December   1913,   the   date   Daskalos   was   born.   She   drew   a   
sketch  of  Daskalos  as  a  grown  man,  wrote  Daskalos'  initials  on  
it   and  gave  the  sketch  to  Pavlos.  
Many  years  passed.  Pavlos  left  Paris,  returned  to  Cyprus  and  
married Theano,  twenty  years  his  junior.  He  kept  the sketch  the  
medium  had  made  for  him  decades  back.  When  he  accidentally  
met  Daskalos  at  a  social  gathering,  Pavlos,  according  to  his  
wife,    became    breathless.    Daskalos'    features    matched    the    
portrait  drawn  by  the  medium.  The  two  of  them  had  a  private  
conversation   and   when   Pavlos   found   out   about   Daskalos'   
birthday  and  other  details,  he  embraced  him  with  tears  in  his  
eyes.  'You  are  the  master  I  have  been  waiting  for  for  so  many  
years,'  he  said.  'You  are  a  master, too,'  Daskalos  is  said  to  have  
replied.  Pavlos,  two  decades  older  than  Daskalos,  was  initiated  
into   the   inner  circle   the   same   year   and   remained,   until   his   
death,  one  of  Daskalos'  most  devoted  associates.  Pavlos,  I  was  
told  later,  was  more  of  an  intellectual  mystic.  Unlike  Iacovos,  
Kostas  and Theophanis,  his  psychic  abilities  remained  dormant.  
He  was,  however,   a   man  of  high   spiritual   stature  and  of  a  
developed  sense  of  humor.  One  day,  Theano  said,  her  husband  
was   sitting  with   a   friend   on   a   bench   under  the   palm   trees   
gazing  at  the  sea.  Suddenly  Pavlos  stood  up,  took  his  hat  off,  
bowed  a  bit,  and  said,  'Good  morning,  Daskale.'  His  puzzled  
friend    asked    for    an    explanation.    'Oh,'    Pavlos    remarked    
casually,  'I  just  saw  Daskalos  out  of  his  body  on  his  way  to  
visit  some  patients.'  In  a  while  the  friend  stood  up,  took  off  his  
hat,  and  said,  'Goodbye,  Daskale.'  When  Pavlos  asked  for  an  
explanation,  his  companion  replied,  'Oh,  I  just  saw  Daskalos  
running  back  to  his  body.'  
Theano  claimed   that   she   was   in   constant  communication  
with  her  late  husband  and  I  was  told  by  others  that  she  had  

91 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
healing  powers  as  well.  She  confided  to  me  that  she  had  to  be  
very  cautious  lest  the  local  clergy  launch  a  war  against  her.  For  
that  reason  she  tried  to  maintain  good  relations  with  the  local  
bishop.  'What  can  we  do?'  she  exclaimed,  throwing  her  hands  
upwards.  'People  can  easily  misunderstand  us.'  
Theano  was  very  proud  of her  husband  and  handed  me,  as  a  
gift,  several  volumes  of  his  collected  poems,  some  written  in  
Greek,  but  mostly  in  French,  and  heavily  influenced  by  French  
romanticism.  Daskalos  said  to  me  later  that  Theano  and  Pavlos  
were  one  of  the  most  harmonious  couples  he  had  ever  known  
and  the  reason  was  their  long  association  through  the  centuries.  
They  were  very  old  souls,  he  said,  and  had  repeatedly  come  
together  as  a  couple  through  the  aeons.  One  lifetime,  Daskalos  
said  to  me  on  several occasions,  is  usually not  sufficient  to  build  
a  good  marriage.  People  must  come  together  repeatedly  as  a  
couple  before  they  become  compatible  through  experience  and  
love. 
One   after   another   Daskalos'   students   arrived,   a   total   of   
about  twenty-five,  ranging  in  age  from  twenty-five  to  seventy  
and  evenly  representing  the  sexes.  Like  the  Nicosia  circle,  they  
came  from   the  more  educated  segments  of  society.  Daskalos  
arrived  last,  along  with  Kostas,  who  drove  from  Limassol  to  
attend  the  meeting.  Iacovos  and  Kostas  regularly  attended  all  
the   lectures   that   Daskalos   offered   at   various   parts   of   the   
island.  They  would  always  sit  next  to  their  master  as  if  to  offer  
emotional  support  during  the  lesson.  
Before  the  formal  meeting  began  Daskalos  sat  in  the  living  
room,  had  coffee  and  cracked  a  few  jokes.  He  then  moved  to  
another   room   and   had   private   conversations   with   some   of   
those  in  attendance.  Daskalos  was  not  only  a  teacher  to  these  
people,   but   also   a   confessor   and   advisor  for  their  personal  
problems. 
After  everybody  had  gathered  in  a  larger  room,  Kostas  lit  
within   a   container   some   incense,   the   type   used   in   Greek   
churches.  Daskalos  stood  up  and  everyone  followed  suit.  He  
held  high  the  container  with  the  burning  incense  and  with  it  
made  the  sign  of  the  cross.  He  then  recited  a  short  prayer.  
'We   will   spend  the  period  today,'  Daskalos  said  after  he  
completed the short prayer, 'reexamining some issues concerning 
the  psychonoetic  worlds.  I  have  noticed  that  some  of  you  have  

92 
FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
many  questions  about  the  nature  of  these  realms.   You   may   
proceed   with   your   questions.   Father   Yohannan   is   ready   to   
answer  them.'  
Kostas,  who  was  sitting  on  Daskalos'  left  side,   served  as  
moderator.  The  first  question  from  the  audience  was  sweeping.  
'What  happens  to  a  person  from  the  moment  of his  death  to  the  
moment  of  reincarnation?'  Kostas  repeated  the  question  so  that  
everyone  would  hear  it  clearly.  
Daskalos   began   to   answer   by   first   giving   a   definition   of   
death    and    by   explaining   the   transformation    of   the    self-
conscious  personality  after  death.  
'We  have  said  before  that  the  gross  material   body  cannot  
maintain  itself  without  its  corresponding  etheric-double.  Death,  
therefore,   means   the   separation   and   disintegration   of   the   
etheric-double  from  the  gross  material  body.  Normally  it  takes  
forty   days   for   the   dissolution   of   the   etheric-double   of   a   
deceased  person.   It   is  for  this   reason  that   in  our   religion  a  
candle  is   lit  for  forty  days  over  the  grave  of  the  dead.  Fire  
accelerates  the  process  of  dissolution  of  the  etheric-double.'  
Daskalos   pointed   out   that   the   etheric-double   of   a   dead   
person   is   highly   malleable   and  can   be  snatched   by  a   black   
sorcerer  who  can  use  it  for  evil  purposes.  The  custom  in  India,  
therefore,  of  burning  the  bodies  of  the  dead  is  preferable.  
'Ordinary  people  assume  that  death  is  a  frightful  and  painful  
experience.  In  reality  it  is  the  opposite.  The  process  of  death  is  
no  different  than  a  pleasant  sleep  after  the  exhaustion  from  a  
day's  work.  One  may  suffer  from  a  serious  illness  but  at  the  
moment  of  death  no  pain  is  experienced.  A  great  mystic  once  
said,  "Never  have  human  lips  tasted  a  sweeter  kiss  than  the  one  
given   by   the   angel   of   death."   I   know   this   from   personal   
experience.  The  moment  a  person  begins  to  abandon  his  body  
his  face  acquires  a  serene  stillness  and  he  no  longer  experiences  
any  pain.  
'An  individual  will,  after  death,  begin  to  live  fully  conscious  
within  one  of  the  subplanes  of  the  psychonoetic world,  carrying  
along   with   him   his   virtues   and   vices,   his   goals   and   his   
aspirations.   His   personality   undergoes   no   change.   Only   the   
reality  of  space  changes.  The  individual  enters  into  a  situation  
where  space  as  we  know  it     in  the  gross  material  plane  does  not  
exist.  He  perceives  space  as  meaning,  as  conception.'  Daskalos'  

93 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
last  remarks  provoked  several  questions  for  clarification.  
'Suppose,'  he  went  on,  i  bring  you  into  this  room  while  you  
are  asleep  and  give  you  a  certain  lesson.   You  will  have  the  
impression  of  the  space  as  you  have  at  this  moment.  When  you  
see  me  the  next  day  you  will  probably  tell  me,  "Daskale,  we  
came  to  the  Stoa,  and  each  one  of  us  sat  at-the  spot  of  our  
preference."  The  question  I  pose  to  you  is  the  following.  Will  
you  have  really  come  to  this  room  to  listen  to  my  talk?  In  the  
state  you  will  be  in  anybody  living  within  the  psychic  world,  
regardless  of  distance,   may   be  able  to  hear  the  same  lesson  
through   coordination.    In    the   psychic   world    we   are   like   
television    stations   that   others    can    tune   into    and   receive   
whatever   we   monitor.   When   we   leave   our   bodies,   either   
through  death  or  through  exomatosis,  we  actually  enter  within  
ourselves.  Communication, then, as well as  all other experiences, 
takes  place  from  within.  Everything  is  there.  Some  time  ago  our  
master  mentioned  to  us  a  great  truth.  "The  abyss  within us,"  he  
said,  "is  in  no  way  less  than  the  abyss  without."  
'Perhaps  it  will  be  easier  to  understand  what  I  have  been  
saying  if    I  offer  you  the  following  concrete  case.  Three  brothers  
in   their  wish  to  communicate  with  their  father  decided  to  carry  
out  a  psychic  experiment  after  his  death.  One  of  them  was  in  
Australia,  one  in  London,  and  the  third  in  America.  Working  
through   three   different   powerful   mediums   they   managed   to   
contact  their  father  simultaneously.  They  wanted  to  bring  their  
father   "down"   they   said.   They   actually   assumed   that   their   
father  was  somewhere  "up."  He  talked  to  them  about  certain  
family  matters  that  none  of  them  was  aware  of  and  which  later  
they   confirmed   to   be   true.   They   reached   the   conclusion,   
however,  that  it  was  not  their  father  they  conversed  with,  but  
the  devil.  How  could  it  be  their  father,  they  reasoned,  since  
they    were    at    three    different    spots    on    the    planet    while    
communicating  with  him  at  the  same  time?  They  assumed  that  
their father  was  in  a  similar  condition  after  death  as  that  of  the  
material  world.  
'They  came  to  Cyprus  and  through  me  contacted  their  father  
again.  He  reassured  them  that  it  was  he  who  had  spoken  to  
them  earlier.  "I  did  not  pay  attention  to  your  surroundings  but  
I  did  speak  to  all  three  of  you.  I  even  touched  you,"  he  told  
them.  "How  could  you  do  that,  Father,  since  we  were  so  far  

94 
FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
away  from  each  other?"  his  three  sons  asked.  
i  warned  them  that  had  they  persisted  in  doubting  him  they  
could  create  confusion  in  his  mind. Just  because  he  was  on  the  
other    side    did    not    mean    that    he    had    transcended    the    
phenomenal  reality.  I  reassured  them  that  it  was  not  the  devil's  
doing  but  that  it     was  indeed  their  father  who  talked  to  them.  I  
pointed  out  that   in   the   psychic   realm   communication   takes   
place    through    vibrations    at    similar    frequencies.    "Let    us    
suppose,"  I  told  them,  "that  I  have  several  powerful  radios  that  
can  get  any  station  anywhere  on  the  planet.  Now,  if  I  place  
these  radios  at  different  parts  of  the  Earth  and  then  tune  them  
in   to  the  same  frequency,  would  not  all  of  them  receive  the  
same  broadcasting?"   Communication  on  the  psychic  plane  is  
something  analogous.   No   human   consciousness   will   ever   be   
mixed   up   and   be   confused   with   another.   Ever   since   the   
discovery  of  radio  and  television  it  is  much  easier  for  ordinary  
human  beings  to  understand  the  nature  of  the  psychic  worlds.  
'You   must   realize   that   the   planes   and   subplanes   of   the   
psychic  and  noetic  worlds   occupy  the  same  space.   And  this  
space  is  the  center  of  the  Earth,  everywhere  on  the  planet,  the  
periphery  of  the  planet  and  the  space  around  the  planet.  Do not 
imagine   that   these   psychonoetic   planes   and   subplanes   are   
juxtaposed  one  on  top  of  the  other.  At  this  very  moment  inside  
the  head  of  a  pin,  in  this  space  and  everywhere  there  exist  all  
the  planes  and  subplanes  of  the  psychonoetic  worlds.  It  is  a  
state  of  being,  of  vibrations  and  a  method  of  tuning  into  them.  
'Within the psychic world you,  as a self-conscious personality, 
will  be  wherever  you  choose  to  focus  youi*  attention.  That  is  
why  whenever  you  see  a  vivid  dream  and  you  perceive  yourself  
moving  instantly  over  vast  distances,  you  conclude  that  such  
experiences  are  unreal,  that  they  are  illusions.  They  are  not.  
When,  some  day,  you  find  yourself  in  the  psychic  world,  you  
will   realize  that  those  worlds   are   more   concrete  than   gross   
matter.   You   will   begin   to   live   with   greater   intensity   with   
greater  ease.  Yet  the  world  that  you  will find yourself  in  will  be  
in   many  ways  similar  to  the  one  you  now  know.  It  is  a  matter  
of     your   ability   of   receiving   impressions   and   psychonoetic   
vibrations.  On  the  basis  of  your  interests  and  predispositions,  
you  will  enter  after  death  into  an  analogous  psychic  state.  You  
will  find  yourselves  in  a  hell,  a  purgatory  or  a  paradise,  the  

95 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
same  one  you  are  in  right  now  at  this  very  moment.  
'There  is,  however,   one  important  difference   between  the  
material  and  the  psychic  realms.  When  we  find  ourselves  in  the  
psychic  environment,  feelings  acquire  a  greater  intensity.  For  
example,  feelings  of  hatred  and  jealousy  can  become  like  fire  
that  burns.  In  this  life  such  sentiments  can  be  tempered  by  the  
limitations  of  the  material  brain.  On  the  psychic  plane  limits  do  
not  exist.  That  is  why  in  the  psychic  worlds  life  is  experienced  
with  such  intensity.  But  you  should  never  assume  that  the  so-
called  hells   are  some  kind  of  psychic  torture  chambers.  The  
hells   and   purgatories   are   schools   and   workshops   for   the   
acquisition  of  experiences  so  that  human  entities  may  ascend  
towards   their   perfection.   In   reality   there   is   no   punishment.   
There  is  only  experience.  If  there  is  suffering  it  is  not  because  
the  Absolute  wishes  to  punish  us  for  our  transgressions  but  so  
that  we  can  find  out  who  we  really  are.  The  purpose  of  such  
experiences  is  to  help  us  shake  off  our  illusions  and  ignorance.  
'Hell  and  paradise  are  relative  terms.  One  person's  hell  may  
be  another  person's  paradise.  To  help  someone  in  the  psychic  
plane  move  out  of  his  hell,  for  example,  you  must  show  him  an  
alternative  condition  to  the  one  he  is  in.  If  he  was  a  querulous  
person  during  his  life  on  Earth,  he  will  find  himself  in  a  similar  
situation  after  he  leaves  his  body.  To  help  him  you  will  have  to  
expose   him  to   the  immediately   better  condition  that  he   can   
move  into.  If  he  is  not  receptive  to  your  suggestions,  let  him  
remain  where  he  is.  He  lives  in  his  paradise  even  though  it     may  
be  the  most  tortuous  hell.  Let  me  give  you  an  example.  I  have  
tried  to  help  someone  who  during  his  life  was  a  gambler  and  a  
very  quarrelsome  person.  He  died  from  tuberculosis  forty-five  
years  ago.  He  has  been  living  in  the  psychic  world  exactly  the  
same  way  as  he  did  when  he  was  in  the  gross  material  plane.  
He  has  created  with  others  the  same  environment  analogous  to  
the  one  they  knew  on  Earth;  dirty  windows,  dirty  clothes  and  
tables,  fights,  arguments,  just  like  the  environment  of  the  coffee  
houses    they    knew    before.    They    did   not    even    have    the    
imagination  to  build  them  any  better.  One  day  I  said  to  him,  
"Come,  my  friend,  let's  go  somewhere."  I  took  him  away  from  
his    situation    and   created    the    vibrations    of    a    Beethoven    
symphony  that  I  like  very  much,  specifically  that  of Joy.  I  told  
him.  "Charilae,"  that  was  his  name,  "look!"  And  I  showed  him  

96 
FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
a   beautiful   forest,   with   colors,   water,   flowers,  everything.   I   
harmonized  the   sounds   with  the   sights  and  created  for  him  
what  I  considered  to  be  a  paradise.  He  gazed  at  me  for  some  
time  and  then  he  said,  "Aren't  you  tired?  Let's  go  back  and  
play  some  poker  with  my  friends.  How  long  are  you  going  to  
keep   me  here  listening  to  these  tin   drums   of  yours?"   What   
could  I  tell  him?  He  lived  in  his  paradise  which  for  me  was  an  
intolerable  hell.  How  could  I  explain  to  that  man  the  difference  
between  hell  and  paradise?  
'Here  is  another  case.  A  peevish  woman  spent  her  entire  life  
accusing,  gossiping  and  cursing  her  neighbors.  When  she  died  
she   continued   the   same   kind   of   life,   only   more   intensely.   
Instead  of  the  real  human  beings  she  left  behind,  she  created  
and  quarreled  with  their  elementals  which  she  brought  along  
with  her;  the  elementals  of Maria,  of  Eleni,  of  Efterbe.  We  tried  
in   vain  to  show her that she  lived  in  a  hell  and  that  she  ought to 
dissolve  those  elementals  so  that  she  could  see  more  clearly.  
Only   after   she   is   exhausted   from   her   condition   will   she   
voluntarily  ask  for  change.  Those  of  you  who  will  one  day  
become  invisible  helpers  will  encounter  such  difficulties..  You  
must  know   that   unless   a   person   seeks   change   himself   you   
cannot  help  him.  Each  person  will  develop  gradually.  The  most  
we   can   do   under   such   circumstances   is   to   create   a   benign   
elemental  and  place  it     on  the  aura  of  the  person  to  work.  When  
he  is  ready  for  change,  that  elemental  will  be  there  to  assist  
him.' 
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  'do the psychonoetic  planes  and  subplanes  
have   an   objective   existence   independent   of   the   individual's   
subjective  perception  of  them?'  
'I    have   said   before   that   the   psychic   worlds   have   trees,   
mountains,  oceans,  rivers,  everything  that  exists  on  the  planet,  
everything  that  has  ever  existed  and  everything  that  can  exist.  
What  you  consider  as  the  real  world  is  actually  the  shadow  or  
the   reflection   of   other   more   luminous   worlds   within   which   
everything  material  that  is  considered  real  exists.  In  the  various  
planes  and  subplanes  of  the  psychic  worlds  there  exist  not  only  
whatever  exists  on  this  planet which  was  created  by  archangelic  
forces,  such   as  water,  mountains,  forests,   but  also  whatever  
humans  have  created  either  while  they  are  still  alive  or  after  
they   depart.   The   psychic   world   is   a   much   richer   world.   

97 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
However,  most  persons  who  live  there  perceive  it  through  the  
elementals  that  they  themselves  create.  In  the  psychic  worlds,  
for example,  there  is  no  sun  that  rises  and sets  every day,  unless  
we  create  one  ourselves.  But  the  sun  we  create  will  be  within  
our  individual  subjective  psychic  world,  not  the  external  one.  
Therefore,  when  a  human  being  abandons  his  gross  material  
body,  he  begins  to  live  simultaneously  within  two  planes  of  
existence,  the  real  psychic  plane  and  his  own  subjective  psychic  
world.  Most  human  beings  are  so  engrossed  within  their  own  
subjective   shell   that   they   are   unaware  of  the   nature   of  the  
psychic plane within  which  they  vibrate.  It is  as  if,  for example, 
we  are  on  a  journey  but  because  of  our  passions  and  psychic  
turmoil,   we   are   oblivious   to   the   beauty   of   the   countryside   
outside.  And  let  me  say  something that  may  seem  blasphemous.  
On   the   basis  of  my  own   personal   experience  what  may  be  
considered  an  intolerable  hell  is,  in  reality,  a  most  beautiful  
space,   assuming  that  you  can  coordinate  your  consciousness  
with  the  real  psychic  plane.  It  is  our  predisposition  that  will  let  
us  or  prevent  us  from  perceiving  that  beauty.'  Daskalos  went  
on  to  say  that  the  evolution  of  the  Researcher  of  Truth  implies  
the  development  of  the  ability  to  distinguish  between  the  real  
psychic   world   and   the   subjective   psychic   environment   that   
people  build  around  them  with  the  elementals  they  bring  along  
when  they enter there.  What is    ugly in  these psychonoetic planes 
is   what  each  individual  hides  within  his  subjective  shell,  his  
own  psychic  world,  which  gives  him  vibrations  of  evil,  hatred  
and  vulgarity.  
'Where  is  this  shell?'  someone  interjected.  
'You   mean   in   terms   of   space?   Again,   everywhere   and   
nowhere.  But  a  person  who  constructs  his  own  shell  and  lives  
in    it,   perceives   it   as  having  clear  limits   within   which   he   is   
confined  and  is  allowed  to  act.  People  build  their  villages,  their  
churches,   their   fields,   just   as   they   had   them   on   the   gross   
material  plane.  We  can  enter  into  their  psychic  shells  when  we  
coordinate   ourselves   with   them   and   understand   how   they   
perceive  their  psychic  world  from  within.'  
On  a  different occasion  Iacovos  had  mentioned  to  me that  he  
regularly  meets  with  his  grandfather  who  died  several  years  
back.  His  grandfather,  he  said,  is  still  preoccupied  with  the  
same  concerns  as  when  he  was  alive.  He  looks  after  his  citrus  

98 
FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
orchard,   cultivates   it,   sells   the   fruit   and   worries   about   the   
rainfall! 
in   the  lower  levels  of  the  psychic  world  that  we  call  hells  
and  purgatories  there  is  less  light  than  in  the  higher  planes.  
Divine Mercy places within beautiful landscapes those vibrations 
of    light  that  make  these  subplanes  equivalent  to  convalescent  
homes.  It  is  similar  to  what  we  normally  do  when  we  attend  to  
the  needs  of  an  ailing  person.  We  keep  the  windows  shut  and  
the  room  dimly  lit  so  that  the  nervous  system  of  the  patient  
may  calm  down.  In  a  comparable  manner  the  Absolute  dressed  
all  those  magnificent  landscapes  of  the  lower  psychic  planes  
within  a  twilight.  It  is  an  appropriate  environment  for  those  
sickly  personalities  who  find  themselves  there  so  that  they  can  
recuperate   and   evolve.   As   we   move   from   the   lower  planes  
towards  the  higher,  we  observe  that  there  is  increasingly  more  
light   in   a   similar   manner   to   the   way   that   a   landscape   is   
illumined  as  the  Sun  rises  over  the  horizon.  Paradises,  which  
are  the  higher  psychonoetic  planes,  are  swimming  in  light  of  
vibrating  intensity.  
'Notice,'   Daskalos   continued,   'that  a   key  attribute  of  the  
psychic  world  is  that  every  atom  of  matter  emanates  its  own  
light.  It  is  unlike the  three-dimensional  world  where  light  comes  
from  a  Sun  or  some  artificial  source.'  
Daskalos'  last  remark  brought  to  mind  Castaneda's  descrip-
tion  of  an  experience  he  had  during  his  apprenticeship  with  
Don  Juan.  Castaneda  claimed  that  one  moonless  night  while  
walking   in   the   desert   with   Don  Juan,   having   difficulty   in   
moving  about  because  of  the  darkness,  he  suddenly  perceived  
the  entire  landscape  lighting  up  as  if     the  Sun  had  come  out.  He  
could  see,  he  said,  everything  clearly  and  could  walk  forward,  
as    if  it  were  daytime,  with  great  ease.  In  addition,  he  said,  he  
was  able  to  carry  on  a  dialogue  with  a  coyote  that  happened  to  
be  there.  Did  Castaneda,  I  wondered,  enter  at that  moment  into  
a   state   of   what   Daskalos   would   have   called   the   psychic   
counterpart  of  that  place?  When  I  posed  the  question  to  him  
later   on,   he   said   that   probably   this   is   what   must   have   
happened. 
'Let  me  now  ask  you  this  question,'  Daskalos  went on.  'Can  
one  communicate  with  a  flower  or  a  plant?  Ordinary  people,  
no  matter  how  much  they  may  love  plants  and  flowers,  cannot  

99 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
consciously  communicate  with  them.  They  appear  as  objects  to  
them,  outside  of  themselves.  A  poet  may  be  inspired  by  the  
beauty of a flower,  but can  he  incorporate into his consciousness 
the  semi-consciousness  of  the  flower?  In  the  psychic  world  it  is  
very    different.    When    you    advance   you    will    be    able    to    
communicate  with   all  forms  of  life.  All  things  are  alive  and  
have  their  own  language,  vibrations,  and  luminosity  that  you  
can  feel  on  your  psychic  body.  
in    the   psychic  world,'   Daskalos   said  further,   'we  do  not  
think  with  our  brains.  We  have  them  but  we  do  not  need  them.  
Every   cell   of   the   psychic   body   is   a   center  of  consciousness  
receiving  impressions.  We  have  eyes  but  we  do  not  need  them  
for   the   same   reason.   Within   the   psychic   world   there   is   no   
separation  between  us  and  an  object  outside  of  us.  When  we  
coordinate  ourselves   and   focus   on   something  we   are   simul-
taneously  one  with  that  object.  We  are  within  it  and  around  it.  
But  we  can  do  this  assuming  that  we  are  in  fact  within  the  real  
psychic  world  and  not  within  our  shells  which  create  for  us  our  
own  psychic  world.  Under  these  conditions  we  color  everything  
through  our  preconceptions  and  impressions.'  
Responding  to  someone's  query  on  the  nature  of  movement  
within  the  psychic  planes  Daskalos  went  on  to  say  that  it  is  
radically  different  from  the  way  we  are  accustomed  to  moving  
on  Earth.  'We do  not  move  by  walking,  taking  buses  or driving. 
But  we  can  perceive  ourselves  and  others  as  walking  or  driving.  
This  is  only  a  perception,  and  an  illusory  one  at that.  When  we  
are  outside  our  bodies  and  we  move  here  and  there  within  the  
psychic  world  and  the  etheric  of  the  gross  material  world,  we  
may   have  the  feeling  that  we  are  flying.  Sometimes  in  your  
dreams  you  have  this  sensation.  Have  you  ever  wondered  how  
this  is  possible?  Are  we  birds  that  can  fly?  In  the  psychic world 
movement  can  take  place  instantly.  It  is  a  matter of transporting 
our  consciousness  through  coordination.  We  can  be  in  London,  
for  example,   in   a  split  second  without  having  to  "fly"   over   
Europe.   Some   day   you   will   learn   how   to   transport   your   
consciousness  over  vast  distances  instantly  while  you  are  still  
within  a  gross  material  plane.'  
'Can  you  tell  us  how  this  is  done?'  I  asked.  
'I   can  tell  you  but  it  will  not  mean  anything  to  you  at  this  
stage.  You  have  to  create  in  your  mind  the  image  of  the  place  

100 FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
you  want  to  go  to,  live  intensely  within  that  image,  hold  it  in  
your  mind  without  distraction,  coordinate  yourself  with  that  
place,  then   you  will   be  there.  And  if  at  that  moment  there  
happens  to  be  a  clairvoyant  at  the  place  where  you  transported  
your  consciousness,   he   will   be   able   to   see   you.   When   you   
develop  further  you  may  be able  to  actually  materialize  yourself  
at     that   place   and   be   seen   by   people   who   do   not   have   
clairvoyant  abilities.'  
'When  you  do that,'  I  probed  further,  'what  happens  to  your  
material  body?'  
'Again  it  depends  on  how  advanced  a  master  you  are.  Your  
body  may  be  in  a  state  of  deep  sleep.  But  one  can  reach  a  point  
at    which  he  can  do  all  that  while  at  the  same  time  being  fully  
awake.   With   time   you   can   develop   a   superconscious   self-
awareness  and  be  at  several  spots  of  the  Earth  fully  conscious  
and  focused.'  
I  confessed  that  I  had  a  hard  time  understanding  what  he  
was  talking  about.  To  be  at  several  places  at  the  same  time!  
'These   are  difficult  issues,'   Daskalos  proceeded,   'but  your  
question  was  such  that  I  had  to  give  you  a  general  answer.  Do  
not  torment  yourself  for  the  time  being.  These  are  great  truths  
that  are  very  difficult  for  you  to  understand  because  you  are  
familiar  with  conditions  within  time  and  space.'  
Daskalos  then  mentioned  that  the  worlds  of  'separateness'  
are  the  poorest   kinds  even   though  they   give   us   the  greatest  
paradises  and  the  greatest  hells.  'The  worlds  of  separateness  
include  not  only  the  material  world  but also the  psychic  and  the  
noetic.  These  are  worlds  of  forms,  images,  impressions.  We  call  
them   worlds   of   separateness   because   one   sees   oneself   as   a   
separate  entity  which  gets  impressions  and  interprets  them.  It  is  
something  other  than  the  real  self.  There  are,  however,  other  
worlds   where   separateness    is   transcended.   There   are,   for   
example,  the  higher  noetic  worlds,  the  worlds  of  ideas  -  laws  
that are  beyond  concrete  thought forms.  There  is  also  the  world  
of    eternal  light,  of  the  seven  heavens.  We  have  talked  of  only  
three,  the  gross  material,  the  psychic,  and  the  noetic.  Beyond  
that  there  is  what  our  religion  calls   the  kingdom  of  heaven  
which  is  within  us.  
'These  lessons,'  Daskalos  proceeded  slowly  after  pausing  for  
a  few  seconds,  'were  given  by  the  Most  Beloved  One  to  his  

101 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
disciples  under  the  olive  trees  in fhe  Garden  of  Gethsemane.  He  
taught    them   exomatosis,    materialization,   dematerialization,   
and  many  other  secrets.  In  the  essence  of  Christianity  there  are  
no  barriers  to  knowledge  even  though  black-robed  priests  have  
imposed  limits  and  restrictions.  We,  as  Researchers  of  Truth,  
want  to  know  through  reason,  inquiry  and  concentration.  We  
take  seriously  Christ's  admonition,  "And  the  Truth  shall  make  
you  free."  This  is  why  Christ  came  to  this  world,  to  give  us  a  
few  lessons  and  show  us  the  road  away  from  the  hells  that  we  
find  ourselves  in,  and  to  lead  us  to  His  paradise,  and  ours.  
Unfortunately  very  few  men  have  learned  from  His  teachings.'  
Daskalos  stopped  his  monologue  and  waited  a  few  seconds  
for   further   questions.   He   then   stressed   once   more   that   the   
psychic  planes  are  schools  where  human  beings  enter  to  receive  
the  necessary  lessons  and  draw  appropriate  conclusions  based  
on  their  experiences  on  Earth.  'The  individual  will  then  move  
to   higher,  more  luminous  planes,  and  after  he  reaches  a  certain  
point  he   will   be  ordered   by  the  great  masters  of  Karma   to   
return  to  Earth  in  order  to  receive  further  lessons.  In  short,  the  
psychic    planes    are    resting    homes    for    the    self-conscious    
personality  until  the  new  school  year  begins.  Unless  of  course  
one  flunks  the  exams  and  has  to  repeat  the  year  all  over  again.'  
With  these  remarks  Daskalos   laughed  heartily   and   everyone   
else  joined  him.  
is   it  possible  to  enter  a  lower  class?'  someone  joked.  
'Never.  It  is  possible  to  remain  in  the  same  class  where  one  
becomes  a  more  experienced  student.  A  self-conscious  entity  
will   incarnate   within   an   environment   analogous   with   other   
kindred  spirits  that vibrate  on  the  same  frequency.  People  call  it  
heredity.  There  is  no  such  thing.  Instead of  heredity  I  would  say  
there  is  the  omniscience  of  the  Absolute  which  brings  together  
those   that   must   be   brought   together   in   order   to   advance   
together  towards  love.  Hatred,  in  reality,  does  not exist.  It is  an  
illusion  based  on  ignorance.  Of  course  these  issues  require  deep  
contemplation  and  study.'  
'Does  the  soul  know  its  destiny  and  the  experiences  that  it  
will  acquire  from  a  future  incarnation?'  a  black-clad  middle-
aged  woman  asked.  
'Not  in  detail.  Subconsciously,  however,  the  permanent  self-
conscious  soul  knows.  But  it  does  not  bring  this  knowledge  to  

102 
FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
the  conscious  level  of  the  present  personality.  For  example,  a  
little  child  touches  fire  and  burns  his  finger.  He  will  forget  the  
detail  of  the  accident  but  when  he  is  near  fire  again  he  will  pull  
his  hand  away.  It  is not  necessary  to  remember the  details  of his 
earlier  experience.'  
'Should  we  assume,  therefore,  that  the  experiences  acquired  
in   a  given  incarnation  are  predetermined?'  
'No.  The   self-conscious   soul  knows  only  possibilities   and   
probabilities.  The  present  personality  has   freedom  of  action.  
Otherwise  human  beings  would  be  nothing  more  than  robots.  
How  an  individual  pays  off  his  debts  is  his  own  choice.  It  is  as  
if   at  this  very  moment  I  am  ordered  to  embark  on  a  vessel  
headed  for New York.  My  destination  is  preordained.  The  kind  
of     life   I   lead   on   the   boat   is   my   own   concern.   What   is   
predetermined  is  my  destination,  New  York.'  
'Then  everything  is   based  on   a  Divine  Plan,'   the  woman  
insisted. 
'The   Divine   Plan   means   birth    and   death,   that   is   all,'   
Daskalos   said   in   a   loud   severe   voice   betraying   impatience.   
'Everything  else  is  your  affair.  Let  us  not  misunderstand  this  
question  and  assume  that  what  happens  to  us  is  unavoidable.  
Otherwise   we   become   absurd   fatalists   and   we   cease   to   be   
Researchers   of   Truth.   What   is   predetermined   is   that   you   
descend  to  be  born,  complete  a  life  cycle,  and  then  die.  This  
you  cannot  avoid.  Everything  else  within  life  is  based  on  what  
you   bring   from   previous   lives   and   how   you   choose   in   the   
present  life  to  develop  or  express  it.  
'I   repeat,  what  is  predetermined  is  our  descent  into  matter  
after  passing  for  the  first  time  through  the  Idea  of  Man.  Then,  
through  repeated  incarnations,  our  destiny  is  to  return  to  where  
we  came  from.  This  is  the  general  law  of  incarnations.  One  
descends  into  matter  with  the  ultimate  aim  of  ascending  back  
to   the  source.  How  long  it  will  take  you  to  do  that  is  your  
problem.' 
'Why  is  it     necessary  for  a  soul  to  incarnate  and  then  return?'  
I  asked.  
'To  realize,  perhaps,  who  one  is  and  acquire  self-conscious-
ness.' 
'Are  you  saying  that  inside  the  Holy  Monad  there  is  no  self-
consciousness?' 

103 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
'There  is,  but  one  does  not  recognize  it.  Let  me  give  you  a  
simple  example.  Suppose  you  were  born  into  a  luminous  room  
and  I  asked  you,  "Do  you  know  what  light  is?"  Do  you  think  
you  would  know?  On  the  other  hand  if  I  turn  the  lights  off  or  
take  you  outside  the  luminous  space  you  will  be  able  to  know  
what  light  is.  As  eternal  entities  we  do  not  become  something  
which   we   are   not   already.   However,   my   permanent   self-
conscious   personality,    which   is   the    sum   total   of   all   the   
incarnations  that  I  go   through,  develops  around  my  eternal  
beingness  my  distinct  individuality.  Beingness  and  individuality  
are  not  identical.  I  exist  even  before  I  pass  through  the  Idea  of  
Man.  Once  I  do  pass  through  and  acquire  the  experiences  of  
gross   matter,   I   am   in   a   position   to   realize   that   I   exist.   
Therefore,  what  we  gain  is  individuality  within  beingness.  We  
become   conscious   of   our   beingness.   Had   this   not   been   the   
ultimate   goal,   descent   into   gross   matter,   followed   by   the   
incarnational  cycles,  would  be  pointless.  In  the  Parable  of  the  
Prodigal   Son,   Christ   cryptically   revealed   to   Mankind   the   
purpose  of  its  existence.  
'Christ  narrates  how  one  of  two  sons  decided  to  leave  the  
palace  of  his  father.  He  asked  for  his  share  of the  wealth  so  that  
he  might  go  and  experience  the  world.  Had  it  not  been  part  of  
the  Divine  Plan,  the  all-wise  father  could  have  refused.  But  the  
plan  was  to  let  him  go,  suffer  hardships,  acquire  knowledge  
and  then  return.  The  son  was  given  what  he  asked,  in  reality  
reason,   sentiment   and   a   material   body,   that   is,   his   present   
personality.  He  took  his  share  and  went  off.  Some  may  call  the  
departure  from  the  palace  and  descent  into  matter  a  fall  or  sin.  
I  choose  to  call  it  experience.  In  this  new  condition  the  son  
abused  his  inheritance  and  consequently  was  transformed  into  
a  swineherd.   In  reality  he  created  elementals,  pastured  them  
and  nourished  himself  with  the  same  food,  that  is,  with  the  
lowest   expression   of   the   mind.   The   pigs   in   the   parable   
symbolize  the  elementals  that  men  create  ceaselessly.  
'One  day  he  rebelled  and  questioned  the  life  he  was  leading  
among  the  pigs,  that  is,  within  the  world  of  elementals.   He   
decided  to  return  to  his  father's  palace  where  even  the  servants  
were  so  blissful.  He  asked,  "Father,  I  have  sinned.  Make  me  
one  of  your  servants."  The  son  took  one  step  forward,  the  
father  took  ten.  Where  is  the  punishment?  Have  you  noticed  

104 FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
any  reproach  or  punishment  in  the  parable?  The  father  opened  
his  arms,  embraced  his  son  and  brought  him  back  into  the  
palace.  Instead  of  punishment  he  rewarded  him  by  placing  on  
his   finger   a   ring,   that   is,   the   symbol   of   eternity.   Life   is   
movement.  When  we  move  on  the  ring  in  any  direction,  we  
cannot  stop.  There  is  no  beginning  and  no  end.  There  is  only  
eternal  movement,  symbolizing  eternity.  The  other  brother  who  
never  left the palace  lives  in  the  eternal  present.  He  is not aware 
of    eternity.  Man,  on  the  other  hand,  through  the  experiences  of  
the  swineherd,  has  tasted  time  as  past,  present  and  future.  The  
father,  according  to  the  parable,  ornamented  the  Prodigal  Son  
with  the  costume  of  his  brother,  that  is  the  Prodigal  Son  lost  
nothing  of  what  he  had  had.  The  father  then  killed  the  fatted  
calf,  a  symbol  of  the  material  body.  The  other  son  protested.  
"What  have  you  done  for  me  who  has  been  loyal  to  you  all  
along?"   But  that  son,   the  archangel,   never  entered   inside   a   
material  body.  "Everything  I  have  is  yours,  my  son,"  the  father  
responded.  I  am  asking  you  now,  who  is  in  a  better  position?  
The  archangel  who  never  stepped  outside  of  the  palace,  who  is  
good but knows  nothing else?  Or the Prodigal  Son who returned 
and  has  whatever  the  other  brother  has  plus  self-awareness?  
Consider  it  as  an  axiom  that  in  Theosis  (return  to  the  palace),  
the  condition  of  man  is  much  superior  to  all  the  archangelic  
systems.   Therefore,   in   the   final   analysis   there   is   no   eternal   
punishment.  There  is  only  the  acquisition  of  experience  within  
matter that  develops  for  us  our  self-consciousness.  In  the  words  
of    Saint  Paul,  "O  death,  where  is  thy  sting?  O  grave,  where  is  
thy  victory?"'  
When   Daskalos   ended   his   analysis   of   Christ's   parable^   
there  were  further  questions  from  the  audience  about  reincar-
nation,    a    topic   of    apparently    great   interest   to    those   in   
attendance.   Someone  raised   the   issue  of  population  increase  
and  reincarnation.  He  wanted  to  know  where  the  new  souls  
come   from.   Daskalos   replied   briefly  that  there  is   continued   
communication  between  the  noetic,  psychic  and  gross  material  
level.   Humans   who   are   born   now   may   come   from   other   
dimensions  of  existence.  Those  who  die  move  to  these  other  
universes.  We  should not  consider  this  a problem,  he  said,  since  
we  know  how  a  first  incarnation  takes  place.  That  is,  by  the  
passage  through  the  Idea  of  Man  of  an  emanation  springing  

105 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
from  a  Holy Monad.  This  is  an  eternal  and continuous process. 
'How   long   does   a   human   being   stay   within   the   psychic   
worlds  before  he  reincarnates  again?'  I  asked.  
'The  Rosicrucians  claim  one  hundred  and  forty-four  years.  
Others  say  fifty  years,  some  others  five  hundred.  Still  others  
insist  that  it  takes  one  thousand  years  before  one  is  reborn.  I  
say  nonsense.  There  is  no  fixed  time.  It  is  a  personal  matter.  I  
know  of  a  mystic,  for  example,  who  stayed  within  the  psychic  
world  for  only  ten  months  before  he  reincarnated.'  
'Who   decides,'   someone   asked,   'when   one   will   return   to   
Earth?' 
Daskalos   replied   that   after   a   period   of   time   within   the   
psychic    world,    when    the    individual    has    assimilated    the    
experiences  of  the  previous  life,  he  will  reach  a  point  when  the  
appetite  for  more  experiences  on  Earth  will  be  rekindled.  The  
person   then   will   search   for   a   kindred   spirit   to   have   him   
incarnated.  Daskalos  mentioned  that  a  clairvoyant  can  see  the  
spirit  of  the  entity  to  be  incarnated  attached  either  to  the  aura  
of    the  prospective  father  or  mother,  awaiting  the  opportunity  
to   be  conceived.   It  often  oscillates  between  the  auras  of  the  
father  and  mother.  
'Are  you  suggesting,  Daskale,'  I  probed,  'that  when  you  are  
on  the  psychic  level  you  will  voluntarily  search  around  to  find  
someone  to  incarnate  you?'  
'Naturally.' 
'But  I  thought  that  these  matters  were  determined  by  the  
Masters  in  charge  of  incarnations?'  
'The  Masters  will  shut  you  up  with  others  in  a  pen.  Then  it  
will  be  up  to  you  to find a  house  to  enter.  Suppose  that  through  
the  centuries  you  established  close  relationships  with  forty  or  
fifty  persons  whose  aura  is  like  yours.  You  love  them,  they  love  
you.   They   could   make   you   their   child.   Wherever   you   can   
accommodate  yourself  you  can  enter.  There  are  beings  that  are  
so    close  that  whenever  they  are  herded  together  they  will  find  
one  another.  But  there  are  those  who  come  together  blindly,  
because   like   attracts   like.   Do   you   understand   now   what   is   
happening?  Suppose  we  have  a  basket  like  a  sieve,  full  of  holes  
of    different  sizes.  When  we  pour  various  objects  through  and  
shake  them  well,  those  that  are  bigger  than  a  given  hole  will  
stay  on  top,  others  will  pass  through.  Those  which  remain  will  

106 
FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
try  to find another  hole  to  pass  through.  It  is  possible  that  there  
may  be  fifty  similar  holes  through  which  an  object  can  pass.  
Which  one  it  will  choose  does  not  matter.  It  is  possible  that  
great   love  between   individuals   which   developed  through   the   
centuries  will   create  strong  magnetic  attractions  so  that  two  
souls   will   pass   through    the   same    hole.   This   process   of   
incarnation   is   a   very   complex   matter   that   requires   careful   
study.' 
it   seems  from  what  you  are  saying  that  to  an  extent  it  is  up  
to    you   to   find   the   appropriate   hole   so   that   you   can   pass   
through,'  I  added.  
'Of  course,  with  the  understanding  that  Karma  will  permit  
you  to  do  so.  The  choice  is   given  to  you  to  decide  to  pass  
through  wherever  you  can  fit.  Pay  attention  to  this  point.  From  
all the  thousands  of holes,  you  can  pass  through  from,  say,  only  
two  hundred.  It  is  natural  that  I  will  pass  through  a  hole  of  the  
two  hundred  that  is  nearest  to  me  during  the  shaking  of  the  
sieve,   a   hole   through   which   I   can   fit,   for   which   I   have   
similarities,  where  the  vibrations  are  alike,  the  Karma  is  alike.'  
'But   the   hole   you   have   chosen   may   create   problems   for   
you....'  I  began  to  say.  
'That is  a  different issue.  We  certainly  do  have  problems.  But  
the   vibrations   fit.   We   have   to   pay  our   debts   together.   We   
cannot  avoid  the  problems.  The  Divine  Plan  is  similar.  All  the  
incarnations   that   I   have   studied   show   that   the   Law   works   
mercilessly.  You  cannot  transcend  it.  Why  do  we  fit?  We  fit  in  
terms  of  give  and  take.  We  may  have  certain  unfinished  tasks  
from  the  past  that  must come  forward  in  order  to  torment  us  so  
that  we  can  evolve.  Or  to  torment  others  involuntarily  in  order  
for  others,  as  well  as  ourselves,  to  evolve.  You  may  say,  ifor  
example,  "What  do  I  have  in  common  with  this  parent  who  is  
depressing  and  oppressing  me?"  Or  if  you  are  a  parent,  "Why  
did he  have  to  come  into  our  family  and  tyrannize  us,  such  nice  
people that we are?"  Do  you  understand now?  It is  the  give  and  
take  within  Karma.  It  is  also  possible  for  the  Masters  of  Karma  
to  take  hold  of  someone  and  place him  at the  right  hole  because  
it   may  be  better  for  the  person  to  pay  his  debts  that  way.  Now  
how  these  four  Masters  of  Karma  work,  I  do  not  know.'  
'Four?' 
'They  are  the  Masters  of  the  four  elements.  They  are  eternal  

107 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
archangelic  entities,  laws.  They  are  a  certain  class  of Michael,  a  
certain  class  of  Raphael,  a  certain  class  of  Ouriel  and  a  class  of  
Siamael.  The  Siamael  are  those  who  give  us  the  meaning  of  
Evil.  Through  them  we  have  Satan.  All  four  cooperate  in  terms  
of    where  an  individual  will  go  to  incarnate.  They  weave  his  
psychonoetic  body.  It  is  very  difficult  for  us  to  understand  how  
they   work   through   the   cells,   through   magnetism,   through   
energy.    It    is    a   complex    question    how   a    being   becomes   
entrapped  in  this  whirlpool  which  brings  him  down  to  Earth.'  
'What   rational   arguments   can   you   offer   in   support   of   
reincarnation  and  what  proof  do  you  have  that  it  is  not  an  
illusion  but  a  reality?'  I  probed  further.  
'First,   there   are   historical   and   religious   arguments   that,   
although    not   proofs    in    themselves,    support    the    idea    of    
reincarnation.  Second,  there  are  cases  that  clearly  show  that  
reincarnation  is  a  reality  and  not  fantasy.  And  the  third  and  
best  proof  of  the  reality  of  reincarnation  for  an  individual  is  
when  he  awakens  to  the  memories  of  past  lives.  But  let  us  take  
one  argument  at  a  time.  
in   our  world  a  great  number  of  people,  if  not  the  majority,  
accept  reincarnation  as  a  fact  of  life.  In  most  of  the  religions  of  
the  planet  reincarnation  is  either  clearly  stated  or  implied.  In  
the   esoteric   traditions   of   Buddhism,   Taoism,   and   Hinduism   
reincarnation  is  taken  for  granted.  For  those  who  understand  
Islam,   I   mean   the   Sufis,   reincarnation   is   also   a   reality.   In   
Christianity,   too,   reincarnation   is   implied.    In   the   Eastern   
religions,  of  course,   the   idea  of  reincarnation  is  much  more  
easily  accepted  because  in  these  religions  there  is  more  direct  
contact   with   the   psychic   spheres.   Unlike   Western   societies,   
there  is  a  continuous  contact  in  the  East  with  the  departed  and  
of    entities  living  within  other  dimensions.  Therefore  they  are  
more  aware  of  the  reality  of  these  dimensions.  In  Christianity  
reincarnation   was   widely   accepted   until   the   fathers   of   the   
Church  removed  it  from  the  scriptures.'  
Daskalos   went   on   to   elaborate   that   the   idea   of   eternal   
damnation  is  a  cruel  and  tyrannical  doctrine  cooked  up  by  the  
priests  to  terrorize  the  faithful  into  submission.  A  person  now  
had  only  one  chance  to  attain  the  kingdom  of  God  and  could  
do  so  only  by  submitting to  the  authority of the  Church  and  the  
clergy. 

108 
FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
'This  doctrine  is  both   foolish  and  an  insult  to  the  "most  
merciful  God*  that  the  priests  eulogize  in  their  churches.  We  
know   that   even  Orthodox   Christians  accepted  reincarnation.  
We  can  find  these   ideas  in   the  works  of  Origen   and  many  
others.  In  the  New  Testament  itself,  of  the  things  that  survived  
the  censorship  of  the  clergy,  we  hear  Jesus  Himself  asking  his  
disciples,  "Who  do   men   say  is  the  son  of  man?"   And  they  
reply,  "Elias  or  one  of  the  prophets  that  came  from  the  dead,"  
that  is,  reincarnation.  Christ  could  have  told  them  that  "What  
you   are  talking  about  is  nonsense,   there  is   no   such  thing."  
Instead  He  responded  that  indeed  it  was  Elias  but  they  did  not  
recognize  him.   They  asked  John  the  Baptist  whether  he  was  
Elias.  He  replied  very  correctly,  "I  am  not  Elias.  Now  I  am  
John."  "And  who  are you?"  they  asked.  "I  am  a  voice  crying  in  
the  wilderness,"  that  is,  a  situation  similar  to  the  one  in  which  
Elias  found  himself,  in  the  desert.  We  can  observe  in  John  the  
Baptist  the  characteristics  of  Elias,  with  the  same  virtues  and  
the  same  weaknesses.  
'And  what  about  Paul's  epistle  to  the  Corinthians  when  he  
said  that  "Your  sons  have  preceded you."?  Does  that not  imply  
the   idea  of  reincarnation?   However,   there  is   better  evidence  
about    the    reality    of    reincarnation    than    resorting   to    the    
Scriptures.   Is   it  not  proof  when   a   child   suddenly  begins   to   
speak  a  foreign  language  fluently  without  any  prior  training?  
Furthermore,  is   it  not  proof  when  he  claims  that  he  was  a  
certain  person  whose  relatives   have  been  located?  There  are  
many  such  well  documented  cases.  
'An  even  more  powerful  evidence  for  a  Researcher  of  Truth  
is   when  he  finally  manages  to  enter  into  his  subconscious  and  
becomes  aware  of  his  own  past  lives.  Believe  me  there  is  no  
greater  proof  than  this.'  
'Why  don't  we  all  remember  our  past  lives?'  someone  asked.  
'You   do  not   remember  for  your  own   sake.   It  is   part  of  
Divine  Mercy  so  that  you  will  have  a  chance  to  progress  in  
your  path  without  remaining  attached  to  old  habits  and  desires.  
Suppose,  for  example,  that  an  individual  in  his  present  life  is  a  
good   missionary.    He   has   reached   a   certain   point   in   his   
evolution  where  alcohol  no  longer  poses  a  problem  for  him  as  
it    did   in   previous   incarnations.   Within   Universal   Memory,   
however,  the  alcoholic part  of him  is  alive.  If  such  memories  re-

109 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
awaken  in  him  in  his  present  incarnation,  he  may  regress  to  his  
old  habit  and  become  an  alcoholic  again.  Christ  Himself  made  
the  point  when  he  said  that  whoever  puts  his  hands  to the  plow  
should  look  forward  at  the  furrow  to  be  created  rather  than  
focusing  his  gaze  on  the  one  already  plowed.'  
'Daskale,  when  you  say  that  the  alcoholic  part  is  still  alive,  
are  you   suggesting  that  it  exists   as   an  elemental?   And   is  it  
possible  for  a  master  to  make  contact  with  such  an  elemental?'  
I  said.  
'Whatever  has  been  imprinted  on  the  Universal  Mind  will  
always  exist.  Suppose,  for  example,  I  wish  to  contact  a  master  
who  lived  four  thousand  years  ago,  let  us  say  he  lived  in  Egypt  
as     Rasadat.   Since   that   time   the   entity   that   manifested   as   
Rasadat  has  incarnated  over  twenty-five  times.  Is  Rasadat  at  
this  moment  alive  or  is  he  a  dead  entity?  Both  Rasadat,  as  well  
as     all   his   other   incarnations,   are   alive   within   the   Universal   
Memory.  Subconsciously  we  are  linked  to  all  our  incarnations  
and  whatever  incarnation  we  bring  to  consciousness  is  a  living  
entity.  Rasadat  is  alive  because  the  entity  that  emanated  him  is  
alive.  Socrates  may  have  incarnated  many  times.  Perhaps  he  is  
alive   today   in   another   body,   in   a   different  culture,   with   a   
different  name.   It  is  possible,  however,  to  bring  up  Socrates  
from  the  pool  of  Universal  Memory  and  even  semi-materialize  
him  in  front of  us  and  converse with  him  irrespective  of  the  fact  
that  today  the  entity  that  incarnated   as  Socrates   may  be  in  
another  body.'  
is   it  possible,'  I  asked,  'that  Socrates  would  act  and  talk  in  
the   same   way   as   the   entity   who   was   once   Socrates   but   is   
presently  somebody  else?'  
'No.   You   must   bear   in   mind   that   Socrates   within   the   
Universal  Memory  is  a  living  elemental  and  not  a  human  being.  
The  self-consciousness  that  was  Socrates  is  no  longer  there.  If  I  
_  bring  Socrates  and  converse  with  him,  he  will  have  the  intelli-
gence  and  knowledge  of  the  Socrates  of  that period.  He  will not 
be  able  to  offer  more  than  Socrates  knew  during  his  life.  
'  "The  God  of  Abraham,  of  Isaac  and  of Jacob  is  not  a  God  
of    the  dead  but  of  the  living,"  said  Christ.  How  many  do  you  
think  understood  what  He  meant?  He  was  not  talking  of  the  
self-conscious   soul   of   the   patriarchs,   but   of   the   then   self-
conscious  personalities.'  

110 
FROM  DEATH  TO  REBIRTH  
'Daskale,'  I  persisted,  'who  can  awaken  the  elemental  of  a  
past  incarnation?'  
'Either the  person himself or a  master.  However, masters  as  a  
rule  are  reluctant  to  tell  you  of  your  past  lives  lest  they  awaken  
in   you  old  weaknesses  and  habits.'  
Daskalos  then  explained  that  it  is  possible  for  a  master  to  
read  one's  past  lives  like  pages  from  a  book.  He  can  do  so  by  
'coordinating'    his    consciousness    with    the    elemental   of    a    
person's  past  life  and  experience  the  sentiments  and  thoughts  of  
that  elemental.  Unless  past  incarnations  are  still  alive,  such  a  
feat    would    be    impossible.    'The    pages    in    our    book    of    
incarnations    are    not    dead    leaves    but    living    elementals,'    
Daskalos  said.  
'When,  then,  can  we  have  memories  of  past  lives  without  a  
disturbance  on  the  present  self-conscious  personality?'  I  asked.  
'Each  Researcher  of  Truth   will   learn  the  way  slowly   and   
patiently.  At  first  we  will  feel  our  past  incarnations  intuitively  
until  full  memory  is  recovered.  The  memories  will  come  as  the  
present  self-conscious  personality  is  more  closely  in  atunement  
with  the  permanent personality.  Then,  like  good  actors, we  will  
be  able  to  remember  the  roles  we  have  performed.  The  Earth  is  
the  theater  within  which  every  one  of  us  plays  his  various  roles  
in   order  to  learn  and  progress  towards  perfection.  When  we  
look  back  without  being  disturbed  at  what  we  see,  it  is  time  
and  safe to  remember.  Before  we  can  safely  remember,  we  must  
first  transcend  the   idea  of  Good   and  Evil.   In  the   meantime   
Divine  Mercy  has  shut  the  door  of  past  memories  in  order  to  
give  us  a chance  to proceed  in  our  path  without  the  interference  
of    past  imperfections  and  weaknesses.'  
'You  said  that  our  past  incarnations  are  living  elementals  
within  the  Universal  Memory.  If  so  is  it     also  possible  to contact 
a  past  incarnation-elemental  and  effect  changes  on  its  behav-
ior?' 
'Let  me  answer  your  question  by  telling  you  of  a  personal  
experience  in  this  life.  A  few  months  ago  I  wanted  to  observe  
myself  giving   a   talk   in   the   psychic  world.   I   remember   my   
Master  (Yohannan)  saying  to  me,  "You  shall  give  a  talk  and  
yet  it  will  not  be  you."  So  I  withdrew,  sat  back,  so  to  speak,  
and  listened  to  my  talk.  As  I  was  observing  myself  I  detected  
certain   mistakes   I   made.   The   Master   brought   to   me,   with   

111 FROM DEATH TO REBIRTH 
mathematical  precision,  the  elemental  of  myself  as  I  had  given  
the  talk  in  the  psychic  world  months  in  the  past.  It  was  like  a  
recording  of  myself  on   a  video  tape.   Could  I  intervene  and  
make  corrections  at  the  moment  I  realized  my  errors?  No.  I  did  
not  have  the  right  or  power  to  add  or  subtract  anything.  At  
that  moment  I  was  simply  coordinated  with  the  one  who  was  
giving the  lesson,  the  elemental  of myself.  I  relived  the  lesson  as  
an  observer.  Someone  other  than  myself  could  have  listened  to  
the  same  talk  had  he  coordinated  himself  with  that  elemental.  
it   is  possible,  however,  that  I  can  create  a  new  elemental  of  
myself  and  make  the  appropriate  corrections.  This  is  different.  
But  whatever  has  been  imprinted  cannot  be  erased,  and  what  is  
imprinted  is  alive.  Perhaps  this  could  offer  us  an  explanation  of  
the  meaning  of  hell  and  paradise.  An  elemental  of  myself  may  
exist  in  a  hell  of  its  own  making  which  can  affect  and  tyrannize  
the  present  personality  when  the  latter  has  not  transcended  its  
past  problems.  That  is  again  the  reason  why  Divine  Mercy  has  
shut the  door  towards  the  past,  so  that  we  will  not  be  adversely  
influenced  from  the  life  of  ourselves  as  elementals  which  we  
have  left  behind  in  a  hell  or  a  paradise.  However,  we  should  
keep   in   mind   that   the   present   personality   is   always   linked   
through  the  law  of  Karma  to  the  living  shadows  of  its  past.  
'The  subject  you  have  raised  today,'  Daskalos  concluded,  'is  
inexhaustible.  I  hope  our  discussion  has  given  you  some  basic  
ideas  on  the  nature  of  the  psychonoetic  worlds.'  

6 
Encountering   the   Logos   
'Brothers  and  Sisters,'  Daskalos  said  just  after  we  had  finished  
the   short   prayer.    'Father    Yohannan    is   waiting   for   your   
questions.' 
There were a few moments of silence and then someone  asked  
about  the  relationship  between  Judas  and  Jesus.  
'What,'  he  asked,  'is  the  truth  about  the  events  that  led  to  
the  betrayal  of  Christ  by Judas?  What  was  his  relationship  with  
the  Divine  and  why  did  he  commit  suicide?'  
The  question  was  timely  as  the  meeting  took  place  on  the  
Friday   before   Holy   Week,   the   most   important   and   festive   
period  of  Greek  Orthodoxy.  After  various  opinions  had  been  
expressed  by  other  members  in  the  group  and  more  questions  
raised,  Daskalos  began  to  describe  the  relationship  of  Judas  to  
Jesus. 
'The  other  disciples  knew Judas  as  an  ambitious  aristocrat,  a  
Hebrew  patriot,  a  zealot  one  might  say,  who  wished  to  expel  
the  Romans  from  Judaea.  He  was  enchanted  with  Jesus  and  
dreamt  about  the  liberation  of  Israel  from  Roman  rule.  
'Judas   the   Iscariot   was   influenced   by   circumstances   that   
made   him   behave   in   an   irrational   manner.   Some   called   it   
betrayal,  yet  others  applauded  his  actions.  Let  me  explain.  
'Judas,  along  with  the  other  disciples,  sought  and  competed  
for  the  Love  of  the  Most  Beloved  One.  On  many  occasions  he  
even  pushed  aside  the  others  in  order  to  embrace  the  Master  
who  often  reciprocated  with  a  kiss.  
'Pay  attention  to  the  fact  that  Judas  kissed  the  Master  and  
expressed  his  love  to  him.   Only  John  and  the  more  genteel  
disciples   expressed   their   love   to  Jesus   in   this   manner.   For   
example,  Peter  never  kissed  the  Master.  It  was  awkward  for  a  
tough  man  like  Peter  to  exchange  embraces  and  kisses  with  
Jesus. 
'Judas  was  close  to  Jesus  daily.  He  was  perhaps  closer  to  
112 

114 ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 113 
Jesus  than  any  of the  other  disciples  with  the exception  of John. 
Consequently  he  witnessed  most  of  Jesus'  miracles.  
'What  was  Judas'  ambition?  To  enthrone  Jesus  as  King  of  
Israel  and  stand  beside  Him.  Judas  had  money  and  ordered  a  
golden crown.  Who do  you think set up  the refrain,  "Blessed be 
the  Kingdom  of  our  father  David,  that  cometh  in  the  name  of  
the  Lord"?  Who  do  you  think  urged  the  masses  to  give  Jesus  
that  tumultuous  reception  into  Jerusalem?  Judas  the  Iscariot.  
When  Jesus  was  in  the  middle  of  a  group  of  Pharisees,  one  of  
them  challenged  Him  to  state  whether  he  was  the  Son  of  God.  
Jesus  responded,  "You  said it."  Judas  was  there  with  two  other  
disciples  and  witnessed  what  followed.  The  Pharisees  accused  
Jesus  of  blasphemy  and  took  rocks  and  began  throwing them  at  
the  Master.  But  just  before  the  first  stone  reached  Jesus  He  
disappeared  from  their  midst  and  the  stones  fell  in  an  empty  
space  right  at  the  spot  where  Jesus  had  been  standing.  
'Judas  witnessed  this  phenomenon  and  he  began  thinking  of  
a  plan  on  how  to  crown  Jesus  King  of  Israel.  He  once  gathered  
the  disciples  and  the  crowds  together  and  raised  the  crown  he  
had  brought  with  him  in  order  to  place  it  on  the  head  of  the  
Beloved  One.  At  that  very  moment  Jesus  disappeared  again,  
and   the   royal   crown   remained   in   the   hands   of  Judas   the   
Iscariot.  It  was  the  second  time  that  Jesus  disappeared  in  that  
manner.  Judas  then  thought,  "I  will  force  you  to  accept.  When  
they  begin  to  abuse  and  curse  you,  you  will  change  your  mind.  
When  they  attack  you,  what  else  can  you  do?   You  will  be  
forced  to  raise  your  hand  and  show  your  Glory,  your  Power.  
You   will   be   tired   of   the   affectations   of  the   sinful   and   the   
beastly,  and  you  shall  become  the  King."  
'So  the  aim  of Judas  the  Iscariot was  not  to  betray  Christ  but  
to   force  Him  to  become  leader  of  the Jews  in  order  to  expel  the  
Romans.    And    yet   Jesus    explained    Himself    clearly.    "My    
kingdom, Judas,  is  not  of  this  world.  Understand  this."  That  is  
what  Judas  did  not  want  to  understand,  that  Christ  was  not  
interested  in  worldly  power.  
'Judas  was  not  a  traitor,  he  was  an  imprudent  beloved. Jesus 
washed  and  kissed Judas'  feet  just  as  he  washed  and  kissed  the  
feet  of  the  other  disciples.  Then  he  told  Judas  to  go  and  do  
what  he  was  supposed  to  do.  Christ  loved  Judas.  But  Judas  
could  not  understand  Jesus'  teachings.  In  fact  only  very  few  of  

114 ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 114 
His   disciples   understood   Him,   specifically  John,   Philip   and   
James.  Philip  understood Jesus  because  he  had  been  previously  
involved   with   the   Greek   mysteries   at   Delphi.   The   others   
understood  Jesus  only  after  the  descent  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  
'Jesus  expected  His  Crucifixion  and  prophesied  his  Resurrec-
tion  in  front  of Judas  by  saying,  "I  can  destroy  the  temple  and  
in   three  days  I  shall  rebuild it."  What  did  He  mean  by  this?  He  
was  speaking  in  parables.  Judas  was  hearing  only  those  things  
he  wanted  to  hear  and  that  he  could  interpret  as  benefitting  his  
patriotic  plans  and  ways  of  thinking.  
'When   Judas   realized   that   the   Master   was   about   to   be   
crucified,  to   be  put  to  death,  he  began  doubting  Christ.   He   
thought  the  Master  had  lost  His  powers  and  could  not  prevent  
Himself  from  being  slapped,  insulted  and  kicked.  When  he  saw  
Jesus  carrying  the  Cross  with  a  thorny  wreath  on  His  head,  
blood  dripping  from  His  forehead,  Judas  began  doubting  the  
Resurrection.   He   became   desperate   and   in   his   anguish   he   
committed  suicide.  
'It    is  too  harsh  a  term  to  call Judas  a  traitor.  I  would  call  the  
condition  that  led  him  to  act  the  way  he  did  a  state  of  unreason  
or    confusion.  Judas   loved  Jesus  pathologically,  foolishly   and   
egotistically.  He  also  loved  an  imaginary  country.  The  world  is  
full   of   such    nationalist   zealots.    Do   you    realize   that    the    
confusion   and   troubles   in   Israel   today  that   have   led   to   the   
spilling  of  so  much  blood  between  Arabs  and  Israelis  are  to  a  
large  extent   the  product  of  the   thoughts   and   desires  of  the  
zealots  and  other  patriots  of  the  time?  Those  of  them  who  have  
come  to  their  senses  by  now  are  beginning  to  be  able  to  see  the  
evil  that  they  themselves  have  caused.  
'So  we  are facing  such  conditions  that  must  be  dissolved,  and  
obliterated  because  there  are  personalities  that  are  sensitive  and  
receptive   to   such   conditions.  Judas   the   Iscariot   was   such   a   
person.  We  must  not  call  him  a  traitor.  When  one  of  Jesus'  
disciples  sighed  once  and  said  harsh  words  about  the  Iscariot,  
Jesus  said,  "Be  aware,  because  every  time  you  say  the  word  
traitor  for  some Judas,  at  that  moment  you  are  crucifying  me."  
'Judas  has  incarnated  many  times  since  then,  as  a  rich  man,  
as    a  poor  man,  as  a  troubled  man,  as  a  common  man,  just  like  
every  other   human   being.   Today   he   is   incarnated   within   a   
Jewish  body  and  he  is  a  great  mystic.'  

114 ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 
115 
There  followed   a   few  moments  of  silence.  Then  someone  
asked  whether  it     could  be  argued  that  for Judas  the  betrayal  of  
Christ  was  an  experience  that  he  had  to  go  through.  
it   was  a  bitter  experience,'  Daskalos  replied,  'and  a  tragic  
role  he  played, for which,  nevertheless,  he  was  responsible  since  
he  vibrated  on  that  level.  The  role  of Judas  is  something  within  
the  Divine  Plan  because  it  facilitates  its  unfolding.'  
'Was   it   necessary,'   someone   else   asked,   'for  Jesus   to   be   
betrayed  or  was  it  possible  for  Him  to   be  arrested  in  some  
other  way?'  
'Perhaps,'   Daskalos   replied,   'it  was  necessary  in  order  to  
attract  the  attention  of  mankind,  to  stimulate  involvement,  to  
create  the  rifts  and  conflicts  between  the  two  sides,  those  who  
called  Him  Holy  and  those  who  denied  His  Divinity.  Perhaps  
things  had  to  be  that  way,  to  create  the  controversies  in  order  
for  the  appropriate  conditions  to  mature.'  
'After  Pentecost,'  someone  mentioned,  'the  disciples  received  
the  Light.  How  did  they  behave  in  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles?'  
'When  we  compare  their  behaviour  with  their  behaviour  two  
years  earlier  or  even  a  month  before  the  Descent  of  the  Holy  
Spirit  upon  them,  we  would  notice  that  the  change  was  great.  
But  when  we  say  that  they  received  enlightenment,  what  does  
that  mean?  Were  they  transformed  from  one  moment  to  the  
next  into  bright  suns?  That  would  have  been  a  cacophony  in  
both  Nature  and  society.  And  it  would  have  been  impossible  
for  them  to  endure  such  an  experience.   Their  enlightenment  
proceeded  gradually.  They  received  as  much  light  at  a  time  as  
they could  endure.  They  did  have  their imperfections.  Light  was  
given  to  them  so  that  they  could  advance  in  their  spiritual  path.  
Nevertheless,   in   the   Descent   of   the   Holy   Spirit,   Grace  was  
offered  them  immediately  so  that  they  were  enabled  to  perform  
miracles.  This  is  not  a  small  matter.  They  began  to  reason  with  
more  wisdom.  Let  us  not  forget  that  the  Apostles  were  mostly  
illiterate fishermen  who  suddenly  started  behaving and sounding 
like  philosophers.  Let  us  take  Peter  again,  as  an  example.  He  
was    a   fisherman   who,    had   we    compared   him   with    the    
intellectuals   of   his   rime,   we   would   have   considered   coarse   
and  boorish.  But  suddenly  he  was  transformed   into  a  great  
Master.  Those  who  had  known  Peter  before,  as  a  fisherman,  
and  met  him  later,  after  the  Descent  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  noticed  

114 
ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 116 
the  difference  in  spite  of  all  his  imperfections.  What  were  these  
imperfections?  His  Hebrew  fanaticism.  He  began  to  resist  the  
Hellenistic   Jews    and    the    Gentile    Disciples.    He    opposed    
Neoplatonic  philosophy.  He  began  to  oppose John.  Later  on  he  
started  a  war  against  Paul  who  had  Greek  relatives.  Peter  had  
strong  Hebrew  sentiments  and  he  could  not  tolerate  any  Greek  
influence   within   the'  new   religion.   When   the  other  Apostles  
tried  to  explain  to  him  that  circumcision  should  be  abolished,  
he   accused   them   of   losing  their   wits.   I   would   not   call   his   
fanaticism  evil.  It  was  just  his  way  of  thinking,  of  wanting  to  
preserve   traditions   that   he   thought   were   important.   These   
disagreements   persisted   among  the   Apostles   even   after   their   
enlightenment.   They   received   as   much   light   as   they   were   
capable  of  handling.  There  is  nothing  more  dangerous  for  the  
eyes  than  too  much  light.  It  is  like  gazing  at  the  Sun.  One  goes  
blind.  So  it  is  not  a  question  of  giving  more  light  to  someone  
but,  rather,  of  providing  as  much  light  as  will  be  beneficial  to  
him. 
'Christ  revealed   to  His   students   enough   of  His  Glory,   as   
much  as  they  were  capable  of  coping  with.  I  have  in  mind  the  
Transfiguration.  John  was  with  Him,  and  so  were  Peter  and  
another disciple. Did they endure the Light of the Transfiguration 
at    Mount  Tabor?  They  fell  down  and  covered  their  eyes.'  
'What   was   the   purpose   of   the   Transfiguration,   Daskale?'   
someone  asked.  
it   was  certainly  not  for  the  sake  of  demonstrating  His  power  
in   creating  phenomena.   He  wished  to  enter  into  His   Divine   
condition.  The  Pan-universal  Logos  wanted  to  initiate  Himself  
into  the  Divine  state.  The  Transfiguration  at  Mount  Tabor  was  
the   initiation   of  Jesus   as   God-Man   in   order   to   endure  ithe  
Crucifixion  and  be  able,  as  God  and  Man,  to  resurrect  Himself.  
After   the   Resurrection,   when  Jesus   was   completely   attuned   
with  His  Divine  state,  He  materialized  in  front  of  His  students  
in   the  image  of Jesus  the  Man,  within  a  body  that  still  bore  the  
scars   on   His   hands   from   the   nails,   saying   to   them,   "All   
authority  has  been  accorded  me  in  Heaven  and  on  Earth."  '  
'When Jesus  was  resurrected,  Daskale,'  someone  asked,  "did  
He  dematerialize  Himself?'  
'Certainly!  He  dematerialized  His  body  completely.  You  may  
ask,  had  He  not  dematerialized  Himself  before?  No.  He  put  His  

114 ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 
117 
body  in  a  state  of  sleep  somewhere  and  then  carried  out  His  
exomatosis.  He would then collect etheric matter and materialize 
a  new  body  which  became  visible.  After the  Resurrection  it    was  
something   quite   different.   He   dissolved   every   cell   of   His   
material  body.  He  became  Spirit,  Absolute  Spirit,  and  could  at  
any  moment,  as  a  complete  self-conscious  personality,  recon-
struct   a   body   identical   to   the   gross   material   body   He   had   
before,    even    with    the    marks    of    the    wounds    from    the    
Crucifixion.  This  is  different  from  exomatosis.  An  advanced  
Master  will  be  able  to  know  this  when  he  materializes  himself  
while  he  is  still  in  a  gross  material  body.  When  such  a  Master  
dies  he  may  be  able  to  materialize  his  body  anywhere  on  the  
planet.  There  is  a  great  difference.  
'We  shall  continue.  May  the  Love  of  the  Most  Beloved  One  
be  with  you  and  in  your  homes  and  with  the  whole  world.'  
After  the  meeting  was  over  and  most  of  the  students  had  
gone,  I  made  arrangements  with  Iacovos,  Kostas  and  Daskalos  
to   meet  at  the  latter's  place  and  spend  the  night  chatting.  We  
had  no  particular  plan  on   what  to  discuss.   Usually  a  topic  
would  come  up  spontaneously  and  then  Daskalos  would  begin  
to   speak.  Daskalos  enjoyed  talking, particularly  when he was in 
the  presence  of  his  close  students,  and  no  matter  how  tired  he  
may  have  appeared  to  be,  the  moment  he  began  to  talk  on  an  
issue he would regain his energy and become totally transformed. 
It   was  about eight o'clock  in  the  evening  when  Iacovos  and  I,  
after   having   dinner   at   a   souvlaki   cafe,   went   to   Daskalos'.   
Kostas   was   already   there   chatting   with   him.   Daskalos   was   
brooding  about  how  tired  he  was  because  of  problems  with  
relatives  and  some  difficult  cases  that  he  had  handled  during  
the  day.  
'They  don't  let  me  rest  for  a  single  moment,'  he  complained.  
'Your  problem,'  Iacovos  said,  half  seriously,  half jokingly,  'is  
that  you  are  too  innocent  and  people  take  advantage  of  you.'  
'Yes,  you're  right,'  Daskalos  responded  playfully.  'I  heard  
the  One  who  told  me  "Blessed  be  the  meek  in  spirit."  '  
I  was  puzzled.  I  wondered  whether  Daskalos  was  serious  or  
whether   he   was   joking.   I   promptly   asked   for   clarification.   
Daskalos  shook  his  head  affirmatively  and  changed  the  tone  of  
his  voice  from  humorous  to  soft  and  serious.  
'Yes,  yes,'  he  murmured,  'I  met  Him!'  

114 
ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 118 
'Could  you  tell  me  about it?'  I  asked  as  I  prepared  to put  my  
tape  recorder  on.  
'I   will,  on  condition  that  you  do  not  tape  what  I  say.'  I  
complied  with  his  wish  and  took,  instead,  my  pad  and  pen  
which  Daskalos  never  considered  objectionable.  When  I  was  
ready  Daskalos  began.  
it   was  one  of  my  most  intense  and  tragic  incarnations.  My  
name  was  Jason  and  my  parents  were  Hellenistic  Jews.  Our  
house  was  at  the  foothills  of  the  Golgotha.  It  was  a  makrinari  
with  an  enclosed  yard  where  we  kept  a  few  goats.  At  the  edge  
of    our  yard  there  was  a  room,  detached  from  the  rest  of  the  
house,  where  an  uncle  of  mine  was  living  by  himself  and  was  
preoccupied  with  the  study  of  religion  and  philosophy,  or  so  he  
pretended.  My  mother  and  sister  knew Jesus'  mother  who  was  
called  Miriam.   They  often   listened  to  Jesus  preaching.  Jesus  
was  actually  called  Jeshoua.  Yohannan  [John],  Jesus'  student,  
knew  our  family  and  he  used  to  take  me  to  listen  to Jesus  talk.  
Even  though  I  was  a  young  boy  at  the  time,  I  understood  what  
Jesus  was  saying.  These  truths  were  not  new  to  me.  It  was  the  
result  of  my  experiences  as  hierophant  in  Egypt.  Yes,  I  was  one  
of    the  children  that  Yohannan  used  to  take  to  Jesus.'  
'Was that the beginning of your relationship  with Yohannan?' 
I  interjected.  
'No,  it  goes  further  back,'  Daskalos  replied  and  continued  
his  story.   'Yohannan  was  twenty  years  old  at  the  time.   My   
father  was  unaware  of  my  mother's  and  sister's  relationship  
with  Miriam  and  Jeshoua  or  about  my  own  involvement  with  
Him.   My   uncle,   who   had   a   great   influence   on   my   father,   
considered  Jesus   an   evil-doer.   They   were   both   part   of   the   
crowd  that  was  screaming  for  His  Crucifixion.  We  insisted  that  
Jesus  was  innocent  but  Father  was  adamant.  So  we  kept  our  
contacts  secret.  
'When Jesus  was  about  to  be  crucified  I  ran  to  see  what  was  
happening.  I  saw  a  procession  of  people  moving  toward  the  top  
of    the  Golgotha.  In  front  of  the  procession  were  the  judges  who  
had   passed   the   death   sentence.   Pontius   Pilate,   in   order   to   
punish  them  for  their  decision,  demanded  that  they  wear  their  
official  garments  and  lead  the  procession.  About  ten  to  twenty  
feet  behind  them  came  Jesus  carrying  the  Cross,  surrounded  by  
soldiers  who  kept  the  people  from  coming  near  Him  with  their  

114 ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 
119 
spears.'  Daskalos  stood  up  and  demonstrated  with  his  hands  
how  the  Roman  soldiers  were  holding  their  spears  in  such  a  
formation  as  to  prevent  the  crowds  from  coming  near  Jesus.  
'Being a youngster,  I sneaked  under the  spears,  stood  in  front  
of   Jesus,  and  gazed  into  His  face.  Blood  was  coming  from  His  
forehead.  He  saw  me  and  smiled.  I  tried  to  smile  back  but  the  
tears  overwhelmed  me.'  
As  Daskalos  was  describing  the  scene  I  noticed  that  his  eyes  
were   watering.   It   was   the   first   time   that   I   had   ever   seen   
Daskalos  coming  so  near  to  tears.  
'I   said  to  Him  "I  love  you"  and  He  kept  smiling  at  me.  The  
soldiers  became  angry  and  chased  me  out  of  their  enclave.  But  I  
tried  again.  I  ran  ahead  and  attempted  to  go  under  their  spears  
once  more.  A  kind-looking  soldier,  when  realizing  that  I  was  
trying  to  get  in,  raised  his  spear  so  that  I  could  more  easily  go  
under.  Again  I  was  face-to-face  with Jesus.  He  tried  to  smile  at  
me  but  there  was  a  sadness  in  His  face.  Perhaps  He  knew  what  
was  coming.  Another  soldier  saw  me  and  with  sadistic  mania  
stepped  on  one  of  my  feet  with  his  shoe.  I  was  wearing  sandals  
and  had  no  protection  for  my  feet.  The  Roman  soldiers  had  
tough  nails  attached  to  the  soles  of  their  shoes.  The  pain  was  
excruciating.  The  soldier  literally  destroyed  my  toes.  I  couldn't  
walk.  I  crawled  outside  the  soldiers'  enclave  and  tried  to  get  
home.  At  that  moment  I  could  only  think  of  myself.  The  pain  
was  extreme.  I  must  have  crawled  for  about  half  a  mile  when  
there  was  an  earthquake  and  the  sky  became  full  of  clouds.  
Houses  were  falling,  walls  were  falling.  When  I  reached  my  
house  it  was  the  only  one  standing  in  the  area.   My  uncle's  
room  was  decimated.   I  said  to  myself,  "Now  I  can  tell  my  
father  that  it     was  the  earthquake  that  hurt  my  foot."  I  was  still  
afraid  of  my  father.  When  I  arrived  home  and  my  mother  saw  
my  condition,   she  rushed  to  get  wine  and   some  herbs.   She   
cleansed  my  wound  with  the  wine  and  put  on  the  herbs.  Then  
she   tightened   my   leg   with   some   rugs.   I   heard   my   father   
quarreling  with  my  uncle.  He  blamed  my  uncle  for  misleading  
him.  Then  he  came  to  my  mother  and  sister,  embraced  them,  
and  apologized.  He  murmured  to  them  that  Jesus  was  indeed  
the  Son  of God.  My  uncle  was  still  insisting that  the  earthquake  
and the rest were natural phenomena and had nothing to do with 
the  Crucifixion.  My  father literally  forced  him  out of the  house.  

118 
114 ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 120 
in   the  meantime  my  situation  deteriorated.   I  felt  that  my  
body  was  being  paralyzed.  1  must  have  caught  tetanus,  I  guess.  
As  I was  lying in  bed  I  saw Jesus  coming  through  the  wall  like  a  
bright   light.   This   took   place   just   after   the   Resurrection.   
Apparently  the   rest  of  the  family  saw  Him  too  because   my   
mother,  sister  and  father  knelt  down.  He  spread  his  hands  and  
told  me,  "Come."  My  mother  began  crying  and  begged  Jesus  
not  to  take  me  away  from  her  because  I  was  her only  son.  But  I  
went  with  Him.  I  don't  remember  where,  but  I  did.'  
As  incredible  as  Daskalos'  story  appeared  to  me,  he  himself  
had  no  doubt  about  the  authenticity  of  his  experience.  Since  I  
had   no   way   of   'testing'   the   reality   of   Daskalos'   story,   I   
preferred  instead  to  pursue  further  questioning  to  get  as  full  a  
picture  as  possible  of  Daskalos'  experience.  
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  'do  you  remember  Jesus'  teachings?'  
'I   was  too   young  at   the  time   to   remember  details.   But  I  
vividly  remember  that  His  teachings  were  not  unfamiliar  to  me.  
As  I  told  you,  I  had  had  similar  experiences  as  a  hierophant  in  
Egypt.   I   remember   Peter   was   rough-looking,   blondish,   with   
heavy  arms.  He  always  held  a  stick,  chasing  people  away  from  
Jesus.  Peter  was  envious  of  Yohannan  because  of  his  education.  
He   apparently   had   an   inferiority   complex   because   he   was   
illiterate.  I  remember  that  Yohannan  would  smile  and  shake  his  
head  whenever  he  would  see  Peter  with  the  stick  in  his  hand  
driving  people  and  children  away  from  the  Master.  But  when  
Yohannan  would  arrive,  his  glance  alone  was  sufficient  to  calm  
Peter  down.  
'I   remember  one  time  when Jesus  was  sitting  on  a  rock,  very  
tired,  with  one  leg  stretched  out  in  front  of  him.  I  fell  on  the  
ground,  and  kissed  His  feet.  He  said,  "Why  are  you  doing  this?  
Don't  you  see,  my  child,  that  my  legs  are  dusty?"  I  replied,  
"But  I  am  dust,  myself,  my  Christ."  He  took  me  by  the  hand  
and  I  stood  on  my feet.  He  then  embraced  me  and  kissed  me  on  
the  forehead  saying,  "Never  say  this  again.  You  are  not  dust,"  
and  He  blessed  me.  I  love Jesus  so  much,'  Daskalos  murmured.  
'No,  He  is  not  a  theosized  man,  as  some  mystics  would  argue.  
He  is  the  incarnation  of  the  Logos  Itself,  I  tell  you.  Whenever  I  
need  to  call  on  Him,  I  raise  my elbows  up  in  the  direction  of  an  
unfinished   triangle,'   and   Daskalos   raised   his   two   arms   to   
demonstrate  how  he  did  it,  'and  call  on  the  Logos  "Come  my  

114 ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 121 
Love."  This  is  what  I  call  Him  when  I  want  to  bring  Him  to  
me.  And  He  completes  the  triangle.'  
'How  many  dmes  have  you  done  this  so  far,  Daskale?'  I  
asked. 
'Four  times  in  this  life.  It  is  not  easy  to  do.  It  is  very  painful  
to   come  back  to  a  normal  state  after  you  have  brought  Him  to  
you.   When   I   call   on   Him   I   immediately   feel   bright   rays   
emanating  from  my  belly  and  my  head,  and  the  room  becomes  
very hot. One time when Theophanis was with me in the Sanctum, 
the  candles  in  the  room  bent  from  the  generated  heat.'  
I  asked  Theophanis  about  this  later  on  and  he  confirmed  
what  Daskalos  had  said.  Iacovos  also  mentioned  that  he  too  
had  inspected  the  melted  candles.  
'I   tell  you,'   and  Daskalos  touched  my  knee  to  emphasize  
what  he  was  about  to  say,  'I    rarely  do  it     because  it     is  shattering  
to   the  body.  The  energy  generated  is  too  much  for  a  weak  
body.   The   pleasure   is   so   intense   that  coming  back   is   very   
painful.  You  want  to  stay  there  with  Him.  It  is  like  being  an  
astronaut  and  then  ending  up  in  a  prison  cell.  To  be  able  to  call  
on  the  Logos  and  not  get  burned,  you  have  to  reach  a  certain  
level  of  spiritual  development.  It  is  the  same  with  Yohannan.  
You   cannot   be   a   cable   for  Yohannan,   who   is   the   planetic   
Logos,  if  you  vibrate  low.  He  will  burn  you.'  
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  'since  it  is  so  painful  to  you  to  enter  into  
these  ecstatic  states,  are  you  planning  never  to  do  it  again?'  
'I   will  do  it,  again  and  again.  I  don't  care  what  will  happen  
to   my  body,'  Daskalos  replied  with  a  determined  tone  in  his  
voice.  From  what  Daskalos  had  been  saying  before,  I  assumed  
that  in  order  to  be  able  to  coordinate  yourself  with  the  Logos  
without   being   'burned,'   you   had   to   be   in   a   state   of   what   
Daskalos  called  superconscious  self-awareness.  So  I  wanted  to  
ask  him  what  is  specifically  the  meaning  of  this  term.  He  said  it  
implies  first  that  you  are  constantly  aware  of  your  permanent  
Self,  which  often  includes  being  aware  of  previous  incarnations.  
Second,  you  are  a  master  of  materialization  and  dematerializ-
ation,  and  third,  your  consciousness  can  be  simultaneously  at  
seven   and   even   more   different   places,   and   be   able   to   get   
impressions  and  experiences  from  all  of  these  places.  
'But  are  these  not,'  I  asked,  'attributes  of  a  theosized  human  
being?' 

118 
114 ENCOUNTERING THE LOGOS 122 
'Yes,  they  are,'  Daskalos  replied.  'These  are  attributes,  but it 
is   not  Theosis  itself.'  
'And  you,'  I  said,  'claim  that  you  can  do  all  these  things?'  
'Yes.' 
'Then    are   you   a    theosized   human    being?'    I   inquired.   
Daskalos'  reply  was  that  he  can  enter  into  a  state  of  Theosis  
but  cannot  remain  there.  He  can  be  there  only  momentarily,  he  
said. 
'You  cannot  live  in  the  material  world,'  Daskalos  continued,  
'and  be  a  theosized  human  at  the  same  time.'  
I  then  asked  him  whether  the  concept  of Theosis  is  similar  to  
what  is  called  by  other  mystics,  God  Consciousness.  
'Yes,'  he  said.  'You  have  consciousness  of  God  but  you  do  
not  live  continuously  in  God  Consciousness  or  Theosis.'  
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  changing the  subject,  'what  is  your  reason  
for  being  on  this  Earth?'  
'Love.  It  is  love  that  keeps  a  master  bound  to  matter.  You  
bear  the  Karma  of  others  and  return  in  order  to  help  them.  
When  you  are  freed  from  your  own,  you  may  choose  to  help  
others.  This  will  keep  you  bound  to  Earth.  
'I   don't   know   about  you,'   Daskalos   said   abruptly   as   he   
turned   toward   Iacovos   and   Kostas   who   so   far   had   been   
listening  quietly,  'but  I  am  getting  hungry.'  
I  put  my  pad  and  pen  on  the  chair  on  which  I'd  been  sitting  
and  followed  the  other  three  into  the  kitchen.  We  quickly  fixed  
plates  of  fruits,  cucumbers,  tomatoes,  bread  and  cheese.  Our  
menu  somehow  seemed  to  be  appropriate  to  our  conversation  
on  Jesus.  We  indulged.  

11 
Cosmology 
I  discreetly  stood   up,   said  goodbye,   and  walked  out  of   the   
house  towards  my  car.  It  was  Wednesday  afternoon,  the  day  
the  inner  circle  met.  Since  I  was  not  a  member  of  this  group,  I  
assumed  that  the  appropriate  thing  for  me  to  do  was  to  leave.  
The  meeting  was  to  take  place  within  a  quarter  of  an  hour  and  
already  most  of  Daskalos'  students  were  present.  
I  was  about  to  enter  my  car  when  Iacovos  rushed  to  the door 
and  waved  at  me.  He  was  followed  by  Daskalos  who  signaled  
me  to  wait.  'Let  us  see  if     we  can  get  permission  from  Yohannan  
so    that  you  can  attend  today's  meeting,'  he  said  as  I  walked  
back  towards  them.  I  was  very  pleased.  Several  days  earlier  I  
had  expressed   my  desire   to  Iacovos  to   attend  a  few  of  the  
meetings  of  the  inner  circle.  I  assumed  it     was  he  who  conveyed  
the  message  to  Daskalos.  
iacovos  and  Kostas  will  meditate  in  the  Sanctum  together  
and  request  permission  so  that  you  can  attend  the  meeting,'  
Daskalos  repeated  as  we  walked  in.  
Not   long   after,    word   came    from    Iacovos   that   Father   
Yohannan  consented.  I  was  pleased,  not  only  because  I  was  
being   given   the   opportunity  to   explore   the  workings  of  the  
inner  circle,  but  because  that  particular  Wednesday  Loizos,  one  
of    Daskalos'  students,  was  to  become  initiated.  
I  already  knew  most  of  the  members  of  the  inner  circle.  They  
gathered  in  the  Sanctum,  put  on  their  white  robes,  and  waited  
for  Daskalos.   It  was  the  first  time  I  had  seen  them  wearing  
white  robes,  a  practice  reserved  for  the  inner  circle.  
'Come  on,  you  Tibetan,'  Daskalos  said  jokingly  as  he  pulled  
me   by   the   elbow   and   led   me   into   the   Sanctum.   'Father   
Yohannan,'  Daskalos  announced,  'having  recognized  Kyriacos'  
thirst  for  knowledge,  gave  his  permission  so  that  he  may  attend  
a  few  of  our  meetings.'  He  then  explained  that  I  had  been  a  
Tibetan   in   several   incarnations   and   I   was,   therefore,   not   a   
123 

124 
COSMOLOGY 
stranger  to  esoteric  teachings.  In  fact  the  quickness  with  which  
I  was  able  to  absorb  the  teachings,  he  said,  was  due  to  the  hard  
work  I  had   applied   in  previous  incarnations.  Daskalos  then  
asked   whether   there   were   any   objections   to   my   temporary   
participation   in   the  proceedings  of  the  inner  circle.   Nobody   
objected.  He  then  placed  a  long  piece  of  white  cloth  about  my  
neck  and  put  on  his  own  white  robe.  
Loizos  stood  in  front  of  the  altar  facing  a  large  picture  of  
Christ.  On  the  altar  there  was  a  folded  white  robe  upon  which  
rested  the Unpointed Sword.  Kostas  lit  a white candle  and  some  
incense  while  Iacovos  turned  on  a  switch  and  two  powerful  
bulbs,  one  on  the  left,  the  other  on  the  right  hand  side  of  the  
icon,  lit  up  Christ's  image.  
Daskalos  knelt  and  placed  his  right  hand  over  the  Unpointed  
Sword.   For   a   few   moments   he   kept   his   eyes   closed   and   
murmured  a  prayer.  He  then  stood  up.  
'I   want  you  to  tell  us,'  Daskalos  addressed  Loizos,  'whether  
you  agree  with  the  following  seven  statements  that  Iacovos  will  
recite.  These are  promises  that you  must  make  to  yourself if   you 
wish  to  wear  the  white  robe.  It  is  not  an  oath  but  a  promise.'  
Daskalos  said  earlier  that  an  oath  bears  heavy  responsibility.  
The  breaking  of  an  oath  can  have  tragic  consequences.  On  the  
other   hand,   if   one   falls   short   of   a   promise,   then   one   is   
accountable   only   to   oneself.   The   seven   promises,   Daskalos   
went  on,  are  the  keys  to  spiritual  perfection.  They  were  given  
by  Yohannan  when  he  was  seven  years  old.  He  categorically  
insisted  that  the  seven  promises  are  absolute,  unalterable  and  
valid  for  all  times.  
'I   promise  to  myself,'  Iacovos  began.  
'I   promise  to  myself,'  Loizos  repeated  in  a  low  voice.  
'To  serve  at  all  times  and  in  all  places  the  Absolute  to  which  
I  wholeheartedly  belong,'  Iacovos  went  on  as  Loizos  repeated  
after  him  each  sentence.  
'To  be  ready  at  all  times  and  in  all  places  to  serve  the  Divine  
Plan. 
'To  make  good  use  of  the  divine  gifts  of  thought  and  word,  
at    all  times,  in  all  places,  and  under  all  circumstances.  
'To  endure  patiently  without  complaining  all  forms  of  trials  
and tribulations  which  the  most wise  divine  law  may bestow  on  
me. 

COSMOLOGY 
125 
'To  love  and  serve  my  fellow  human  beings  sincerely  from  
the  depths  of  my  heart  and  soul  no  matter  what  their  behavior  
may  be  towards  me.  
'To  meditate  and  contemplate  daily  the  Absolute  with  the  
objective  of   total   coordination   of   my   thoughts,   desires   and   
actions  with  its  divine  will.  
'To   investigate   and   check   every   night   whether   all   my   
thoughts,  desires,  words  and  actions  are  in  absolute  harmony  
with  the  divine  law.'  
When   Loizos   finished   with   the   recitation   of   the   seven   
promises,  Daskalos  held  his  right  hand  and  as  everyone  else  
listened  he  proceeded  in   a  serious  tone:   'The  white  robe  is  
neither  a  reward  nor  a  privilege.  It  is  a  heavy  cross  to  carry.  It  
is   a  promise  and  a  commitment  to  be  always  of  service  to  your  
fellow   human   beings.   Your   brothers   here   agree   that   you   
deserve  to  put  on  the  white  robe.  It  symbolizes  the  necessity  to  
keep  your  soul  white.  Love  must  be  the  dominant  force  in  your  
life.  Hate  no  one,  even  those  who  do  you  harm.  Be  firm  when  
need  be  but  do  so  with  love  and  always  bearing  in  mind what  is  
best  for  your  fellow  human  beings.'  
Daskalos  then  asked  whether  anybody  had  any  objections  to  
Loizos  becoming  'a  white-robed  brother.'  Everyone  in  unison  
declared   that   he   was   'Axios,'   that   he   was   truly   worthy.   
Theophanis  and  Kostas  took  the  white  robe  from  the  altar  and  
helped  Loizos  put  it  on.  Following  Daskalos,  each  one  of  the  
other  brothers  kissed  Loizos  on  the  forehead.  Then  he  knelt  
and   Daskalos    crossed    him    over   the    head    by    using    the    
Unpointed  Sword.  The  neophyte  kissed  the  Unpointed  Sword  
right  at  the  point  where  a  six-pointed  star  was  inscribed.  
'We   shall   now   proceed   with   the   Communion   of   Love,'   
Daskalos  announced  and  gave  the  floor  to  Theophanis.  The  
latter   mixed   water   with   wine   and   poured   it   into   a   silver   
communion   cup   which   was   on   the   altar.   Theophanis,   eyes   
closed,  both   hands   stretched  upwards,   firmly  held  the  com-
munion  cup  in  front  of  Christ's  icon.  The  rest  of  us  knelt  as  he  
remained  in  that  position  for  several  minutes.  There  was  total  
silence.  When  Theophanis  turned  around  everybody  stood  up.  
He  gave  communion  to  each  one  of  the  brothers,  starting  with  
Daskalos  who  kissed Theophanis'  hand  after  he  drank  from  the  
cup.  Everybody,  with  the  exception  of  myself,  drank  from  the  

126 
COSMOLOGY 
communion  cup  three  times,  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  
the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Spirit.'  Theophanis  then  poured  some  
of   the  'blessed  wine'  into  an  ordinary  plastic  cup,  and  repeating  
the  ritual,  he  offered  it  to   me  to  drink,  in  the  name  of  the  
Father,'  and  I  drank  once,  'and  of  the  Son,'  and  I  drank  twice,  
'and  of  the  Holy  Spirit,'  and  I  emptied  the  cup.  
'Let  me  explain  to  you  some  of  the  symbolism  of  the  ritual  
you  have  just  witnessed,'  Daskalos  told  me  as  the  others  left  the  
Sanctum   and   went   into   the   main   room   of   the   Stoa.   'The   
Communion    of    Love    is    not    a    substitute    for    the    Holy    
Communion   in  Church   which   I   always   urge  my  students  to  
take.' 
'What  is  the  purpose  of  the  Communion  of  Love?'  I  asked.  
'Before  we  begin  the  lesson  of  the  inner  circle  we  need  the  
blessing of the Christ Logos. Whoever carries on the  Communion  
of    Love  must  be  very  advanced  in  the  construction  of  noetic  
images.  When  Theophanis  held  the  cup  with  his  eyes  closed,  he  
first  made  a  prayer  and  then  envisioned  a  powerful  sun  inside  
the  cup  radiating  light.  He  then  proceeded  to  dissolve  it.  When  
the  sun  continued  to  shine  with  greater  intensity,  it  was  a  sign  
that  the  Logos  had  taken  over.  The  water  and  the  wine  inside  
the  cup  had  been  blessed.'  
is   it  only  Theophanis  who  carries  on  this  ritual?'  I  asked.  
'No,  not  always.  We  take  turns.  But  only  those  of  us  who  
have  psychonoetic  powers  are  capable  of  intense  concentration  
and  can  accomplish  this  feat.'  
'What  is  the  meaning  of  the  inscription  on  the  Unpointed  
Sword?'  1  asked  and  looked  at  the  sacred  object  lying  on  the  
altar.  On  its  short  and  broken  blade  I  read  'Ztous  'Axeavxous  
Zou n66as  A6ye Ilaoa  'E^ouoia'  (At Thy  Immaculate  Feet,  O  
Lord,  All  Authority  Rests).  
'Let's  talk  about  that  after  the  lesson.  The  others  are  waiting  
and  we  must proceed,'  Daskalos  said  quickly  as  we  walked  into  
the  other  room.  
Daskalos   sat   in   the  front  chair   facing  his   small   audience   
while  Kostas  sat  next  to  him  looking  pensive.  
'Kyriaco,'  Kostas  said  severely,  'what  you  hear  today  you  
cannot  tape  or  discuss  with  outsiders.'  I  realized  that  Kostas,  
with  whom  I  had  already  established  a  close  friendship,  was  
uncomfortable  that  I  was  given  permission  to  attend.  Unlike  

COSMOLOGY 
127 
Daskalos  and  Iacovos,  he  was  much  more  cautious  in  revealing  
the  'mysteries.'  I  reassured  him  that  I  would  neither  tape  nor  
take  notes  on  the  lessons  of  the  inner  circle.  
'Children  of  the  Spirit,  of  Light  and  of  Fire ...,'  Daskalos  
began  in  a  low  voice.  It  was  the  first  time  I  heard  him  address  
his   students   with   these   words.   Before   the   lesson   was   over   
Daskalos  asked  me  to  leave  the  room  because,  he  said,  Father  
Yohannan  was  about  to  give  a  meditation  exercise that only  the  
members  of  the  inner  circle  must  practice.  
I  waited  in  Daskalos'  living  room.  In  about  half  an  hour  I  
heard  noises  coming  from  the  Stoa.  I  assumed  the  meditation  
exercise  was  over.  Daskalos  came  out  first,  thirsty  for  coffee.  
He   apologized   for   sending   me   out  of  the   room   but   it  was  
Father  Yohannan's  wish,  he  explained.  I  reassured  him  I  was  
not  the  least  offended  and  volunteered  to  make  Turkish  coffee.  
'Can  you  now  explain  to  me  the  meaning  of  the  Unpointed  
Sword?'  I  asked  Daskalos  as  I  handed  him  a  cup  of  steaming  
coffee. 
'You   don't   forget,   do   you?'   Daskalos   said   jokingly   as   
Iacovos  and  Kostas  joined  us.  
'The   Unpointed   Sword,'   he  began,   'is   the   symbol   of   our   
circles.   We   are   part   of   a   wider   circle   called   the   "White   
Brotherhood."  However,  our  invisible  masters  asked  us  to  call  
our  groups   "Circles   for  the  Research   of  Truth"   in  order  to  
differentiate  ourselves  from  certain  circles  in  Europe  because  of  
abuses.' 
'When  did  the  White  Brotherhood  start?'  I  asked.  
'The  very  moment  man  turned  his  eyes  upward  and  asked  
the    question,    "Who    am   I?"    And   then    knelt   down    and    
wondered  about  the  great  power  that  governs  the  universe.'  
'I   suppose,'  I  added,  'all  religions  of  this  planet  are  qualified  
to   be  part  of  this  White  Brotherhood.'  
'Yes,  as  long  as  the  central  characteristic  of  these  religions  is  
universal   love.   Nevertheless   our   particular   system   for   the   
Research  of  Truth  began  in  the  year  when  Christ  was  born  just  
after  he  was   visited   by   the  three  wise  men.'  Daskalos   then   
proceeded  to  briefly  chronicle  the  events  that  led  to  the  creation  
of    this  branch  of  the  White  Brotherhood.  
'The  Maharajah  Ram,  with  his  friend  the  wise  Tsekinata,  
through  clairvoyance,  monitored  from  India  the  events  that  led  

128 COSMOLOGY 
to   the  birth  of  Christ.  Imagine  that  Ram  was  able  to  calculate  
the  exact  time  that  Christ  was  to  be  born.  With  Tsekinata  he  
traveled  by  camel  all  that  distance  and  arrived  at Jerusalem  at  
the  appropriate  time.  
'Ram  left his  kingdom  to  his  brother  and  traveled  without  an  
entourage.  They  were  able  to  protect  themselves  from  bandits  
with  the  power  of  their  thought.  On  their  journey  to Jerusalem 
they  passed  by  Armenia  which  was  divided  in  two.  One  part  
was   ruled   by   King   Ntikran   and   the   other   by   his   brother   
Gaspar,    a    great    mystic.    Caspar    reconciled    himself    with    
Ntikran,  making  the  latter  king  of  the  whole  of  Armenia.  He  
then  joined  the  other  two  wise  men  on  their  pilgrimage.  The  
three  of  them  encountered  Valtasassour,  the  Arab  king  of  the  
desert.  The  rest  of  the  story  is  known  through  the  gospels.  
'When  they  arrived  at  the  cave  the  Maharajah  Ram  took  off  
his  royal  golden  robe  and  placed  it  at  the  feet  of  the  Godman.  
He  then  took  out  his  sword,  broke  it  in  two,  placed  it  in  front  
of    Jesus   and   said,   "At   Thy   Immaculate   Feet,   O   Lord,   All   
Authority  Rests."  Then  he  knelt  down,  kissed  Jesus,  and  said,  
"Cham  el  chior"  which  in  the  ancient  Indian  language  meant,  
"I    saw  God."  
'When  the  three  wise  men  returned  to  their countries  they  set  
up  the  circles  for  the  Research  of  Truth.  As  you  noticed  the  
brothers  of  the  inner  circle  wear  only  a  white  robe  without  any  
insignia.  It  symbolizes  the  under  robe  of  "Chamelchior"  after  
he  took  off  his  royal  robe  and  placed  it  at  the  feet  of  Christ.'  
'That's  quite  a  story!'  I  exclaimed  and  before  I  finished  my  
sentence    little    Marios,    Daskalos'    three-year-old    grandson,    
appeared  at  the  door  holding  triumphantly  the  bottle  of  wine  
Theophanis  had  used  for  the  Communion  of  Love.  The  child,  
who   was   present   at   Loizos'   initiation,   apparently   took   the   
bottle  from  the  altar  and  spilled  its  contents  all  over  the  Stoa.  
'Don't  worry,'  Daskalos  reassured  the  others,  'we  can  buy  
another  bottle.  Now  Marios  will  know  the  difference  between  
the  blessed  wine  in  the  communion  cup  and  the  wine  in  the  
bottle.' 
'How  is  he  going  to  see  the  difference?'  I  wondered.  
'Marios  is  clairvoyant.  He  can  see  the  blessed  wine  radiating  
light.  The  wine he  spilled  did  not radiate  light.  Spilling the  wine  
was  his  way  of  testing  the  difference  between  the  two.'  

COSMOLOGY 
129 
'That  is  a  very  healthy  way  of explaining Marios'  mischief,'  I  
marveled  and  the  rest  joined  me  laughing.  
'I   wonder,  Daskale,'   I  said  after   Kostas   and  Iacovos  left,  
'whether  you  would  care  to  elaborate  a  little  on  the  lesson  you  
have  just  given?  I  am  not  clear  on  what  you  exactly  mean  by  
the    "self-sufficiency"    and    "Divine    Expressiveness"    of   the   
Absolute.' 
it   is  not  possible  with  our  human  brains,'  Daskalos  began  
while  I  pressed  the  button  on  my tape  recorder,  'to  comprehend  
the  nature  of  the  Absolute.  As  I  have  told  you  repeatedly,  we  
cannot  know  God  unless  we  get  to  know  ourselves.  When  we  
reach  that  point  our  own  self  will  become  the  mirror  which,  
through   reflection,   will  enable   us   to  know  God.   Our  small  
consciousness  will  become  awakened  inside  the  superconscious-
ness. 
'However,   even   though   our   earthly   brains   are   inherently   
limited  in  comprehending the  Absolute,  we  can  still  have  a  faint  
notion  of  some  of  its  characteristics.  Now,  I  speak  on  the  basis  
of    my  personal  experience,  based  on  my  investigations  within  
universal   memory.   I   know   that   the   Absolute   Is.   Do   not   
imagine,  however,  that  this  Absolute  is  some  strange  God  that  
the  various  religions  have  given  us.  The  Absolute  is  everything,  
a  multidiversified  entity  in  One.  
'A   basic  attribute  of  the  Absolute  is   its  self-sufficiency  or  
autarchy.  By  that  I  mean  it  has  everything  within  it.  It  lacks  
nothing  and  it  needs  nothing.'  
'Had   the   nature   of   the   Absolute   been   only   autarchy,'   I   
added,  'the creation  of  the worlds  would  have  been  impossible.'  
'Good.  But  another  attribute  of  the  Absolute  is  the  urge,  call  
it    Divine   Expressiveness   if   you   will,   to   manifest   itself.   It   
vibrates  within  itself.  It  has  life,  motion.  Can  you  imagine  life  
without    the   phenomenon   of   motion?   No.    Based   on   this   
observation  various  mystics  concluded  that  God  is  movement.  
This   is   a   mistake.   Life   as   movement   is   the   nature   of   the   
Absolute.  It  is  not  the  Absolute.  
'Now,  pay  attention  because  this  is  a  difficult  point  to  grasp.  
Suppose  within  the  boundlessness  of  the  infinite  there  were  no  
phenomena.  What  could  we  possibly  know  about  the  infinite?'  
'But  who  would  be  the  knower  in  this  case,  since  we  would  
not  exist?'  I  pointed  out.  

130 
COSMOLOGY 
'Fine.  We  would  not  exist  but  we  would  still  Be.'  
'You  mean  we  would  be  as  Holy  Monads,  as  eternal  souls?'  
'Yes.   If   we   assume   that   the   Infinite   has   within   it   life,   
movement,  vibration,  without  anyone  or  anything  vibrating  or  
moving,  we  would have  simply  been  in  absolute  self-sufficiency.  
We  would  not  exist.  However,  it  is  the  nature  of  the  Absolute  
to   express  itself,   to  create  the  universes.  Mind   was  created.  
When?  Since  it  is  part  of  the  Absolute  it  has  always  been.'  
'What  do  you  mean  by  Mind,  Daskale?'  
'Mind  is  that  supersubstance  that  makes  possible  the  Divine  
Expressiveness  of  the  Absolute.'  
it   must  include  the  gross  material  universe,'  I  added.  
'Of  course.  Not  only  the  gross  material  universe,  but  all  the  
universes,    the   psychic,   noetic,   higher   noetic   and   beyond.   
Everything  is  Mind  but  Mind  is  not  the  Absolute.   It  is  the  
means  by  which  the  Absolute  manifests  itself.  The  Absolute  is  
beyond  all  manifestations.  Just  think  for  a  moment.  Everything  
we   see  around   us   is   the   product  of  Divine  Thought   which   
becomes  materialized.'  
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  'what  is  the  difference  between  the  Christ  
Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit?'  
'I  am  glad  you  asked.  The  Christ  Logos  and  the  Holy  Spirit  
are   the   two   ways   by   which   the   Absolute   manifests   itself   
through   Mind.   The   Holy   Spirit   represents   the   impersonal   
superconsciousness  which  expresses  the  power  of  the  Absolute,  
making the  creation  of  the  universes  possible.  It  is  the  dynamic  
part  of   the   Absolute.   The   Christ   Logos   is   that   part   of   the   
Absolute that makes possible  the existence  of self-consciousness. 
We,   as   eternal   entities,   are   both   Logoic   and   Holyspiritual.   
Animals  are   only   Holyspiritual.   Do   you  follow   me?   Let   us   
assume  that  the  Absolute  is  the  head,  the  Holy  Spirit  the  left  
hand  and  the  Logos  the  right  hand.  It  is  the  Trinity  in  One.  Do  
you  understand  now  why  they chant  in church,  "In  the  name  of  
the  Father,  the  Son  and  the  Holy  Spirit"?'  
'When  you  say  Christ  Logos  do  you  mean  Jesus  Christ?'  
'No.  JesUs  Himself  said,  "Before  the  mountains  and  the  hills  
I  Am."  The  Christ  Logos  has  always  been  within  the  Absolute  
before   the   appearance   of  Jesus.   We   call   Jesus   of   Nazareth   
"Christ"  because  He  was  the  most  perfect  and  most  complete  
expression   of   the   Pan-universal   Logos.   It   is   the   light   that   

COSMOLOGY 
131 
enlightens   every   man   descending   upon   the   Earth.   Let   me   
illustrate  what  I  mean.  Suppose  Christ  is  the  Sun  whose  light  is  
reflected  on  the  surface  of  our  planet.  A  black  stone  will  hardly  
reflect  that  light.  Another  stone  of  a  different  color  will  reflect  
more  light.  A  white  marble  will  reflect  even  more  light.  The  
light  that  each  stone  reflects  depends  on  its  quality  and  color.'  
'We  are,  I  suppose,  these  stones.'  
'Exactly.  The  amount  of  Logoic  light  reflected  within  us  will  
depend   on   how   evolved   as   self-consciousness   we   are,   how   
developed  our  psychonoetic  body  is.  But  every  stone,  no  matter  
how  dark  it  is  at  the  present,  will  one  day  through  the  impact  
of    the  Sun  become  as  bright  as  alabaster.  Do  you  understand?  
We  speak  now  of  existence  as  distinct  from  beingness.'  
'How  are  the  two  different?'  
'Whatever  exists  Is,  beyond  evolution,  beyond  expression.  It  
is   within  the  eternal  present,  inside  the  Absolute.'  
'Now  I  am  really  confused,'  I  said  with  exasperation.  
'Look!  We  Are,  as  Holy  Monads,  as  souls,  before  we  exist.  
We  acquire  existence  when  we  pass  through  the  Idea  of  Man  
and  enter  into  the  world  of  separateness,  of  existence.  What  
exists  has  a  beginning  and  an  end  which  in  turn  becomes  a  new  
beginning  for  another  cycle  of  existence.  As  eternal  entities  we  
simply  are.  We  have  always  been.  It  is  through  the  cycles  of  
existence  that  we  shall  acquire  our  self-consciousness.  This  is  
the   meaning   of   Christ's   parable   of   the   prodigal   son   as   I   
explained  it  to  you  before.  When  Christ  said,  "I  am  the  Way  
and the Truth  and  the  Life,"  what do  you  suppose he  meant?  "I  
am   Time.   I   am   the   wisdom   of   the   Absolute   behind   the   
evolution  of  phenomena  in  space  and  time."  How  many  do  you  
think  can  grasp  the  meaning  of  Jesus'  words?  Believe  me  the  
Christian  religion  has  substance.  But  we  have  remained  on  the  
surface  of  the  ocean.  We  have  yet  to  explore  its  depths.  
'So,'  Daskalos  said  and  clapped  his  hands  on  his  knees,  'the  
mind  of  man  can  conceive  two  natures  of  the  Absolute  and  
three   attributes.   The   two   natures   as   we   have   seen   are   the   
Logoic   and   Holyspiritual.   By   studying   Nature   we   can   also   
comprehend   the   three   attributes  of  the   triadic  God,   namely   
Omniscience,   Omnipotence   and   absolute   Goodness.   We   can   
perceive  these  attributes  in  the  smallest  particle  of  matter  as  
well   as   in   the   greatest   of   galaxies.   What   is   true   on   the   

132 
COSMOLOGY 
microcosm  is  also  true  on  the  macrocosm.  
'Everything,'  Daskalos  continued,  'is within  Divine  Autarchy,  
unexpressed,   unmanifested.   Within   Divine   Autarchy   there   is   
also  Divine  Expressiveness  through  which  the  manifestation  of  
what  is  begins.'  
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  'I     wonder  whether  you  care  to  elaborate  a  
little  more  on  the  difference  between  existence  and  beingness?'  
'Common  people  assume  there  is  nothing  beyond  existence.  
If   you  ask  the  question,  "Does  God exist?"  my  answer  will  be  a  
categorical,  "No."  God  simply  is.  Existence  is  the  manifestation  
of    God  through  the  supersubstance  we  call  Mind.   Whatever   
exists  has  a  beginning  and  an  end.  God  as  the  Absolute  has  no  
beginning  and  no  end.'  
in   the  King  James  version  of  John's  Gospel,'   I  noted,  'we  
read  "In  the  beginning  was  the  Word.. .."  '  
it    is   a   mistranslation   from   the   Greek   original,'   Daskalos   
snapped.  'As  you  know,  the  word  arche  in  Greek  means  both  
beginning   and   authority.   In   the   English   translation   the  first  
meaning   was   mistakenly   chosen.   It   should   have   read,   "In   
authority  is  the  Logos...  ."  '  
'I   would  like  to  ask  you  one  more  question  on  the  distinction  
between   beingness  and  existence.   I  suppose   we  can  say  that  
beingness  is  the  reality  whereas  existence  refers  to  the  world  of  
phenomena   which   includes   the   gross   material,   psychic   and   
noetic  worlds.  From  this  point  of  view  entering  reality  means  
transcending  existence  and  receding  into  beingness,  into  a  form  
of    non-existence.'  
'Very    good.    It    is    not    easy    to    transcend    the    various    
dimensional  worlds  and  fearlessly  enter  into  our  beingness.  I  
now  speak  of  my  own  personal  experience.  Though  we  feel  we  
are  part  of  the  One  Reality,  Life,  we  enter  into  a  conception  of  
non-existence.  This  is  probably  what  must  have  confused  even  
the  Buddha  who  said  that  Nirvana  is  a  state  of  nothingness.  In  
reality  it  is  not  nothingness.  You  still  know  that  you  are  you.  
As  a  present  personality  you  reflect  yourself  in  three  mirrors,  
the  mirror  of  matter,  the  mirror  of  psychic  existence,  and  the  
mirror   of   noetic   existence,   of   concrete   thoughts.   Suppose   I   
hand  you  a  hammer  and  tell  you,  "Look!  There  is  so  much  
distortion  of  yourself  in  these  three  mirrors.  Break  them."  And  
you  break  them.  What  are  you  now?  You  can  see  no  reflection  

COSMOLOGY 
133 
of    yourself  as.  thought,   as  sentiment  or  as  a  material  being.  
Who  are  you  now?  You  are  still  you,  no  less  and  no  more  than  
what  you  were  before  the  smashing  of  the  mirrors.  However,  
unless  you  are  reflected  you  cannot  become  a  phenomenon  of  
life.  Suppose  I  boldly  enter  into  that  sense  of  non-existence,  yet  
beingness  within  the  Absolute  Beingness.  Can  I  come  out  of  it  
any   time  I  wish   and  re-reflect  myself  within  matter,  that  is  
become  incarnated?  Definitely  yes.  We  are  eternal  beings.'  
'That  must  have  been  the  state  we  were  in  before  we  passed  
through  the  Idea  of  Man  to  get  incarnated,'  I  remarked.  
'Good.  You  can  enter  into  that  state  any  time  you  wish,  
assuming that you are  an experienced master of the metaphysical 
world.' 
it   must  be  a  frightful  state  to  be  in,  Daskale,'  I  added.  
'Well,  to  tell  you  the  truth,  I  experienced  it  long  long  ago  in  
centuries past  and  at  first  I  felt  a  great  fear.  But  I  was  helped  by  
my  masters.  Entering  that  state  of  being,  without  feeling  I  am  
the  reflection   of   myself,   gave   me  such   happiness,  such   self-
abundance,  autarchy.  Is  there  any  other  word  for  autarchy,  of  
self-sufficiency?  But  even  in  that  state  you  have  the  desire  to  
return.  Yet  I  cannot  really  call  it  desire  because  the  moment  I  
do  that  I  automatically  find  myself  in  the  psychic  dimension.  
Nor can  I  call  it    thought,  obligation,  because  when  I  say that,  it  
is   implied  that  I  am  within  the  noetic  world.  What  is  it  then,  
this  state  of  non-existence,  yet  self-sufficient  beingness,  which  
impels  me  to  return?  It  is  perhaps  the  nature  of  Beingness  to  
reflect  itself  by  itself.  Masters  have  done  it.  Christ  has  done  it.  
'When  entering  within  myself,  which  from  the  human  point  
of  view  is  nothingness,  and  from  the  point  of  view  of  beingness  
self-abundance,  I  know  that   it  is  my   nature   to  re-enter  the  
world  of  matter.  I  now  speak  strictly  on  the  basis  of  my  own  
experience.  Suppose  you  ask  me,  "Where  do  you  prefer  to  be,  
within  the  self-abundance  of  non-conceiving  being,  where  we  
find  what    we    call    happiness,    or    within    the    trials    and    
tribulations  of  our  phenomenal  existence?"  Believe  me  if     I  have  
a  beloved  person  near  me,  to  gaze  into  the  eyes  of,  to  smell  and  
caress  the  loved  one's  feet,  I  would  say  I  prefer  that.  Call  it  
weakness,  call  it     whatever  you  like,  still  it     is  an  attribute  of our 
beingness  not  of  our  existence.  Maybe  this  is  the  same  urge  
within   the   Absolute   Beingness   itself  that   brought   about   the   

134 
COSMOLOGY 
creation  of  the  worlds.  To  touch  and  caress  lovingly  with  the  
rays  of  its  Sun  even  the  dullest,  the  most  stagnant  waters.  
'Perhaps,'   Daskalos   went   on   after   a   few   seconds'   pause,   
'what  I  am   saying  is  blasphemous.  This  is  how  I  feel.  The  
material   world   with   all   its   torments   and   imperfections   is   
beautiful!  Do  you  find  that  I  am  wrong?'  
Daskalos'   question  took  me   by   surprise.  The   tone   of  his  
voice  and  the  intensity  of  his  glance  gave  me  the  impression  
that  he  actually  expected  an  answer,  as  if,  in  fact,  I  were  in  a  
position  to  give  him  one.  
'I  wish,'  I  mumbled  clumsily,  i  could  give  you  an  answer.'  In  
fact  I  was  moved  with  Daskalos'  earthly  yearnings.  It  reminded  
me of  a  story  about  a  Zen  master.  All  his  life he  preached of  the  
unimportance   and  the  illusory  nature  of  the  material  world.  
When  he  was  about  to  die  his  disciples  gathered  around  his  
deathbed  eager  to  hear  some  final  words  of  wisdom.  All  he  
could  utter  was,  'I    want  to  live,  I  want  to  live.-  His  adepts  were  
dismayed.  'But  master,  how  can  you  say  that?'  they  protested.  
'Really,  really,  I  want  to  live,'  he  repeated  and  closed  his  eyes.  
That  was  the  master's  final  lesson.  
It   was  early  evening  when  I  left  Daskalos'  home.  We  agreed  
to   meet  again  and  continue  our  discussion  on  the  nature  of  the  
Absolute  and  man's  place  in  the  universe.  In  the  meantime  I  
had   already   made   arrangements   to   meet   with   Kostas   on   
Saturday.  He  was  to  be  back  in  Nicosia  that  day.  I  planned  to  
ride  back  to  Limassol  with  him  and  attend  a  meeting  with  his  
circle  of  students  scheduled  for  that  afternoon.  
Kostas  was  a  master  in  his  own  right.  I  had  already  attended  
several  of  his  meetings  and  was  impressed  by  the  high  quality  
of    the  discussions  that  followed  the  formal  presentation.  Unlike  
Iacovos,   whose   father   was   a   laborer,   Kostas   came   from   a   
wealthy  family  of  Famagusta,  the  leading  port  city  of  the  island  
before  it     was  overrun  by  the  Turkish  troops  in  1974.  After  that  
tragedy  he  found  refuge  in  Limassol  with  his  wife  and  two  
children  where  he  managed  a   large  garage  for  auto   repairs.   
Before   the  Turkish   invasion   Kostas   had   spent  five  years   in   
England  and  earned  a  degree  in  mechanical  engineering.  
After  I  got  to  know  his  students  I  realized  that  most  of  them  
joined  his  circle  after  they  witnessed  healing  performed  either  
by  him  or  by  Daskalos.  A  woman  in  her  middle  forties  told  me  

COSMOLOGY 
135 
that   she   joined    Kostas'    group    when   he   cured   her   from   
excruciating  headaches  she  had  suffered  for  over  twelve  years.  
Kostas'  most  advanced  disciple,  a  government  employee,  joined  
his  group  after  Daskalos  cured  his  young  daughter  who  had  a  
walking  disability.  
'When  I  went  to  Daskalos,'  he  told  me,  'my  daughter  was  
three  years  old.  I  was  sitting  on  a  chair  holding  her  on  my  lap.  
Daskalos  was.talking  to  me  about  her  condition.  Suddenly  he  
extended  his  hands  and  said  to  my  daughter,  "Come,  my love." 
Before   I   realized   what   was   happening   and   to   my   great   
astonishment,   she  slipped  from  my  lap  and  walked  towards  
him.  He  picked  her  up  and  put  her  on  his  lap.  For  a  moment  I  
was  terrified.  "What  is  he  doing  to  my  daughter?"  I  thought.  
Up  to  that  point  she  could  hardly  walk.  She  was  also  afraid  of  
strangers.  When  I  saw  her  sitting  on  Daskalos'  lap,  smiling,  I  
felt  at  ease  and  realized  that  a  miracle  had taken  place.  He  took  
off  her  shoes,  put  her  down,  and  said,  "Walk,  my  love."  She  
has  been  walking  normally  ever  since.'  
Another    student    of    Kostas    was    a    former    member    in    
Daskalos'   circle   but  when   he  moved   to   Limassol   he  joined  
Kostas'  group.  'I     once,'  he  said,  'suffered  from  my  kidneys  and  
planned  to  have  an  operation  to  remove  the  stones  that  caused  
me  extreme  pains.  The  day  of  the  operation  1  tried  to  get out  of  
bed  and  put  on  my  pants.  I  felt  such  extreme  pains  that  I  fell  
back  in  bed.  As  I  lay  there  Daskalos'  image  came  to  my  mind.  
Then  I  began  concentrating  on  my  kidneys,  sending  with  my  
mind  rays  of  certain  colors  that  Daskalos  had  taught  us.  In  a  
few  minutes  of  concentration  the  stones  on  my  kidneys  fell  off  
and  the  pain  was  gone.  I  cured  myself  without  the  need  for  an  
operation.' 
'How  long  have  you  known  Daskalos?'  I  asked  Kostas  as  we  
drove  off  towards  Limassol.  
'Ever  since   I  can   remember.   He   used  to  hold  me  on  his  
knees,'   Kostas   replied   with   laughter.   'My   parents   were   his   
students.  I  was  exposed  to  his  teachings  very  early  in  my  life.  I  
remember  one  day  when  I  was  a  small  child  Daskalos  was  in  
our home  when  I  got  a  spanking from  my  father.  Daskalos  said  
to   my  father,  "Do  you  realize,  my  dear,  that you  are  spanking  a  
master?"  At  that  time  I  could  not  understand  what  he  meant.'  
Kostas  then  said  to  me  that  it    was  only five years  ago  that  he  

136 COSMOLOGY 
was  'awakened'  to  the  reality  of  who  he  was.  Memories  of  past  
lives  were  beginning  to  come  back  to  him.  He  claimed  that  in  
one  of  his  incarnations  he  was  a  knight  in  the  court  of  Richard  
the  Lionheart  and  took  part  in  the  crusades.  
'When  I  was  studying  in  England  I  had  a  strong  feeling  that  
the   countryside   was   very   familiar.   But   the   actual   memories   
have   come   to   me   only   recently.   Believe   me   these   are   not   
dreams,'   Kostas   said,   and   looked   at  me  as   if  to   check  my  
reaction   on    what   he   was    saying.    'The   intensity   of   that   
incarnation  must  have  been  very  strong,'  Kostas  went  on.  'One  
time  when  I  was  out  of  my  body  I  encountered,  for  the  first  
time,  a  threatening  black  elemental.  Instinctively  I  reached  for  
my  sword.  I  thought  I  was  a  knight  fighting  an  evil  enemy.  I  
immediately   realized   that   that   was   not   the   way   to   fight   
elementals,'  Kostas  said  laughing.  
'Well,  how  did  you  fight  that  monster?'  I  said  smiling.  
'I   created  with  my  mind  an  elemental  radiating  white  light  
and  directed  it  against  the  black  elemental.  You  never  fail  if  
you  know  how  to  do  that.'  Kostas  then  went  on  to  say  that  
whenever  he  feels  that  an  elemental  is  too  powerful  for  him,  he  
just  runs  back  to  his  body  for  safety.  
'Our  bodies  are  like  castles.  They  protect  us  from  outside  
enemies,'   Kostas   said   as   we   passed   a   large   lorry   that   had   
slowed  us  down  for  several  miles.  
'What   do   you   understand   by   the   term   "awakening"?'    I    
asked.  'Are  there  any  steps  that  one  must  follow  before  one  
becomes  "awakened"?'  
'  "Awakening"  to  us  means  realizing  who  we  actually  are  
which   is   something   other   than   our   present   personality.   It   
implies  remembering  past  incarnations.  It  usually  happens  in  
three  stages.  First  you  subconsciously  feel  that  you  have  lived  
before.  This  is  what  happened  to  me  when  I  was  studying  in  
Glasgow.  The  second  step  was  when  I  began  to  have  images  
coming  to  my  mind  in  the  form  of  dreams.  The  third  step  is  
when  you  begin  consciously  to  relive  certain  experiences  of  the  
past.' 
'Can't  you  skip  the  first  two  steps?'  
'As  a  rule,  no.  I  am  speaking now for the  ordinary  person  on  
his  path  in  the  Research  for Truth.  For  an  advanced  master  the  
first  two  steps  may  not  be  necessary.   Perhaps  Daskalos  was  

COSMOLOGY 137 
born  awakened,  or  almost  so.  But  don't  assume  that  Daskalos  
is   not  also  researching  for  the  truth.  He,  too,  is  a  disciple.  You  
never  stop  being  a  student  until  you  re-awaken  as  a  god.  
'The  moment  that  you  enter  the  path  of  knowledge,'  Kostas  
continued,  'you  begin  to  consciously  carry  your  own  cross.  You  
may  also  consciously  begin  to lift  the cross  of  your  fellow man.' 
'You  mean  you  begin  to  take  up  his  Karma?'  
'Yes.   You   do   that   through   love.   When   you   carry   on   a   
therapy,  you  absorb  consciously  or  subconsciously  the  pain  of  
the  other.  Believe  me  this  is  not  masochistic.  You  enjoy  life  
more  fully.  You  come  close  to  so-called  happiness.  Of  course,  
within   gross   matter   there   is   no   happiness.   There   are   only   
pleasure  and  contentment.'  
'Where,  then,  is  happiness?'  I  asked.  
'Real    happiness    exists    only    within    the    noetic    worlds.    
Naturally  at  every  stage  of  reality  the  meaning  of  happiness  is  
different.  When  you  enter  the  path  of  knowledge  life  is  more  
meaningful.  Do  you  think  it  is  a  small  thing  to  realize,'  Kostas  
Said  with  exuberance,  'that  you  are  not  lost?'  
'Perhaps  it     is  wishful  thinking  that  leads  you  to  this  belief,'  I  
added  wryly.  
'No.  When  you  have  the  experience  nothing  can  shake  up  
ijfrour  feeling  of  certainty,'  Kostas  replied.  It  was  the  standard  
response    that    I    had    heard    Daskalos    and    Iacovos    make    
repeatedly.  They  had  the  certitude  that  they  were  bearers  of  
enlightenment  and  that  their  mission  in  life  was  to  help  their  
fellow   men   to   come   out   of   the   darkness   of  ignorance   and   
despair. 
'Kosta,'   I   said,   'I   noticed  that  you   are   very   reluctant  in  
revealing   information   about  the   teachings.   Why   are  you  so  
cautious?  Why  the  need  for  secrecy?'  
'Listen,  Kyriaco,'  Kostas  replied  as  he  kept  his  eyes  fixed  on  
die  road,  'it  is  not  wise  to  expose  someone  abruptly  to  too  
much  light.  He  can  be  blinded.  You  can  harm  a  person  if  you  
reveal   to   him   certain   truths  that  he   is  not  as   yet  ready  to  
absorb.' 
'In  what  way  can  the  truth  harm  anybody?  Can  you  give  me  
an  example?'  
'I    will   tell   you,'   Kostas   said   with   determination,   after   
pondering  my  question  for  a  few  seconds.  'Several  months  ago  

138 COSMOLOGY 
we  had  to  expel   a  brother  from  our  circle  because  once  he  
learned  how  to  carry  out  exomatosis  he  abused  it.'  
'How?'  I  asked,  and  I  noticed  Kostas  smiling.  
'He  was  the  principal  of  a  high  school  and  the  rascal  used  to  
visit  the  bedrooms  of  his  female  students  while  out of  his  body,'  
Kostas  replied,  and  joined  me  in  laughter,  in  spite  of  his  pleas  
to   be  accepted  back  into  the  circles,  I  was  adamant  against it.  1  
could   see   on  his   aura   a   lot  of  egotism.   If  we   had  let  him  
continue,  he  would  have  been  tempted  to  misuse  such  powers,  
not  only  to  the  detriment  of  others,  but  primarily  to  himself.  
'You  see,'  Kostas  went  on,  'when  you  involve  yourself  with  
mysticism  a  mistake  of  this  type  can  keep  you  bound  to  the  
same  condition  for  several  incarnations.  TTie  higher  you  climb  
on  the  mystical  path,  the  more  painful  your  fall  can  be.  That  is  
why  mysticism  is  secretive.  Don't  forget  that  if  through  certain  
meditation   exercises   that  you   learn   in   the   inner  circle,   you   
manage  to  prematurely  open  up  your  sacred  discs,  you  can  be  
overwhelmed  by  feelings  of  terror.  When  such  experiences  take  
place,  one's  receptivity  to  spiritual  matters  may  be  stunted  for  
several  incarnations.'  
'Or  one  may  end  up  in  the  asylum,'  I  added.  
'Very  true.  That  is  why  it     is  wise  to  always  have  a  mentor  to  
guide   you   in   this   path.   It   is   the   safest   route.   Believe   me,   
whenever   a   person   is   ready   for   these   truths,   a   master  will  
always  appear  in  his  life.  
'To  tell  you  the  truth,'  Kostas  went  on,  'it  is  very  difficult  to  
judge  whether  a  specific  information  about  mystical  issues  will  
have   a   benign   or   a   catastrophic   effect   on   someone.   These   
matters  can  lead  minds  that  are  too  attached  to  earthly  interests  
to   confusion.  What  may  benefit  one  may  harm  another.'  
is   it  possible  to  get  the  information  given  within  the  circles  
by  reading  books?'  I  asked.  
'No.  The  teachings  of  Father  Yohannan  as  given  to  us  are  
not  recorded  anywhere.'  
'I   have  noticed  that  Daskalos,  yourself  and  the  others  are  
absolutely  certain  that  the  knowledge  you  acquire  on  spiritual  
matters  is  second  to  none.  How  can  you  be  so  confident  since  
there are some discrepancies between different mystical systems?' 
'Our    information    comes    from    the    very    source    itself.    
Yohannan  is  not just  a  master who  lives on  the other  side.  He is 

COSMOLOGY 
139 
Christ's  most  beloved  disciple  and  the  entity  that  oversees  the  
evolution  of  our  planet.'  
'Does  that  mean  that  Daskalos  is  infallible?  Do  you  accept  
everything  he  tells  you  as  the  truth?'  
'Not  at  all,  not  at  all.  We  do  have  disagreements  between  us  
as    you  must  have  noticed,  particularly  on  issues  pertaining  to  
worldly  matters.'  
Kostas  argued  that  it  is  natural  to  have  disagreements  at  the  
lower  levels  of  existence  since  the  material  brain  is  always  an  
obstacle  in  the  absorption  of  wisdom.  Therefore  the  way  to  
resolve    spatial-temporal    issues    is    through    discussion    and    
agreement,  and  never  through  the  imposition  of  Daskalos'  will  
or     that   of   the   invisible   masters,    in    the   higher   levels   of   
existence,  however,  knowledge  is  such  that  it     is  pure  light  and  
wisdom.  Whoever  enters  there  absorbs  it.  
'The  masters  do  not  dictatorially  tell  us  what  to  do.  They  
show  us  the  way  and  it     is  up  to  us  to  proceed  on  our path.  Yes,  
we  will   make  mistakes   in  the  process,   but  this  is  how  one  
learns. 
'Our   views   on   politics   and   social   questions   may   differ,'   
Kostas  continued,  'but  we  all  know  that  these  issues  are  of  no  
ultimate  validity.  We  do  not  therefore  accord  them  more  value  
than  they  deserve.  To  give  you  an  example,  I  have  in  my  circles  
people  who  belong  to  various  political  parties.  In  fact  in  my  
circle  I  had  a  leading  member  of  the  communist  party.'  
'I   find that  difficult  to  believe,'  I  said  laughing.  'A  communist  
mystic?' 
'Oh  yes!'  Kostas  retorted  emphatically.  'But  I  must  say  he  
eventually  had  difficulty  reconciling  his  political  role  with  his  
'Spiritual  activities.  His  wife  threatened  that  unless  he  quit  our  
circles,  she  planned  to  report  him  to  the  party.'  
'What  did  you  advise  him  to  do?'  
'Remain  in  the  party  and  quit  the  circles  temporarily  until  he  
Sorted  out  his  marital  difficulties.  He  could  be  of  service  to  his  
'fellow  human  beings  from  where  he  was,  as  a  member  of  the  
communist  party.  Ironically,  his  wife  suffered  from  cancer  and  
during  our  meetings  we  tried  to  help  her  from  a  distance.'  
We   stopped   for   a   rest   at   Skarinou,   a   village   half   way   
Jbetween  Nicosia and  Limassol.  It  was  a  traditional  resting  stop,  
a  small  oasis  where  one  could  indulge  in  some  local  delicacies,  

140 
COSMOLOGY 
sweets  made  of  raw  walnuts,  watermelon  rind,  and  where  one  
could  sip  the  omnipresent  Turkish  coffee.  
Kostas  generously  continued  answering  my  relentless  ques-
tions   on   his   relationship   with   Daskalos   and   his   personal   
involvement  with  the  circles.  So  much  of  his  time  was  absorbed  
with  healing  and  the  teachings  of  Yohannan  that  he  hardly  had  
any  time  to  look  after  his  own  business.  
'You  know,'  Kostas  said  as  we  got  back  to  the  car,  'we  are  
like  dwarfs  in  front  of  Daskalos.  He  is  light  years  ahead  of  us  
on  the  spiritual  path.  But  the  public  has  no  idea  who  he  is  or  
what  he  does.  Most  people  assume  he  is  just  a  psychic  or  a  
sorcerer  and  they  come  to  him  often  for  the  most  banal  of  
reasons.' 
'What,  for  example?'  
'A   man  came  last  year  demanding  from  Daskalos  to  "finish  
off"  the  husband  of  his  sister-in-law.  Daskalos  was  angry  and  
asked him  to  leave  at once.  That  fellow  took  a  bundle  of  money  
from  his  pocket  and  waved  it     in  front  of  his  face.  "You  see  this  
mister?"  he  shouted,   "they  are  five  pound  bills.  They  are  all  
yours  if  you  do  what  I  asked  you  to  do."'  
'I    can   imagine   how   angry   Daskalos   must   have   been,'   I   
commented. 
'His  response  was,  "Roll  up  your five pound  bills  and. ..."  '  
i  can  guess  the  rest,'  I  said,  and  joined  Kostas  laughing.  
'For  a  whole  week,'  Kostas  continued,  'Daskalos  tolerated  
another  man  who  pestered  him  continuously.  He  sold  lottery  
tickets  and  demanded  that  Daskalos  pick  up  from  the  bunch  of  
tickets  the  lucky  numbers.  Daskalos  explained  that  he  could  do  
no   such  thing  and  asked  the  man,  in  vain,  to   leave  him  in  
peace.  He  sat  in  the  hallway  for  hours.  Finally  Daskalos  lost  his  
patience  when  a  couple  of  young  women  visited  Daskalos  and  
this  fellow  began  making  lewd  remarks.  Daskalos  took  him  by  
the  ear,  pulled  him  out  of  the  house  and  sent  him  away  with  
two  slaps  on  his  nape.  "What  the  devil!"  the  man  mumbled  as  
he  ran  away  holding  his  head.  "You're  crazier  than  I  am!"  
'Sometimes  people  come  to  Daskalos,'  Kostas  went on,  'with  
the  intention  of  poking  fun  at  him.  I  was  there  when  a  couple  
brought   him   a   picture   of   their   dead   brother.   The   moment   
Daskalos  touched  it  he  realized  the  "deceased"  was  alive  and  
well,  waiting  outside  in  the  car.  He  sent  them  away  in  disgust.'  

COSMOLOGY 
141 
it   is  hard for  me  to  imagine  how  it    is  possible  to  tell  whether  
one  is  dead  or  alive  by  simply  touching  his  picture.'  
'Believe me,'  Kostas  said  confidently,  'it is    the  easiest  thing  in  
the  world.  The  picture  is  the  means  by  which  you  coordinate  
yourself with  the  magnetism  and  the  vibrations  of the  person.  If  
you  perceive  that his  silver  cord  is intact,  it     means  the  person  is  
alive.' 
'Sounds   simple,'   I   retorted   as   1   smiled   and   raised   my   
eyebrows. 
The  silver  cord,  Kostas  explained,  is  that  which  connects  the  
psychonoetic   body   with   the   gross   material.   If   you   meet   a   
person  on  the psychic plane  and  that person  has  a  silver cord,  it  
means  that  he  also  lives  within  the  gross  material  plane.  In  the  
absence  of  a  silver  cord,  it  means  that  one  resides  only  within  
the  psychonoetic  worlds.  
We  were  approaching  Limassol  when  Kostas,  responding  to  
my   question,   began   describing   how   he   personally   feels   in   
exomatosis. 
intense  Concentration  is  necessary  before  you  can  leave  your  
body.  Your  material  brain  must  stop  vibrating  completely.  You  
:inust  first  learn  how  to  shut  the  doors  of  your  subconscious  so  
that  thoughts  do  not  interfere  with  your  concentration.  Then,  
'through  a  special  meditation  technique  that  you  will  learn  after  
you  advance  in  your  research,  you  will  find  yourself  outside  
your  body.  
'At   the   first   step   of   my   exomatosis   I   am   in   a   state   of   
hypertension.  I  feel  both  inside  my  material  body  and  outside  
of    it.  It  is  a  factor  that  sometimes  does  not  permit  me  to  leave  
my    body.    When    you    are    outside    your    body    and    your    
consciousness  is  near  it,  there  is  a  great  temptation  to  think  of  
and  look  at  it.  The  moment  you  do  that  you  are  back  inside.  
'When  we  are  outside  of  our  bodies,'  Kostas  continued,  'we  
absorb   etheric   energy   from   the   universe   and   through   this   
energy  we  can  carry  out  healing.'  
'How  do  you  feel  when  you  return  to  your  body?'  I  asked.  
'I   am  fully  alert  and  incredibly  energized.  I  feel  full  of  life.  In  
exomatosis  you  absorb  so  much  etheric  energy  that  it    revitalizes 
you.  Every  particle  of  your  body  is  charged  with  vitality.  It  is  
something  you  will  know  yourself  when  you  first  experience  
that  state.'  

142 
COSMOLOGY 
i  doubt  that  I  ever  will,'  I  murmured.  
'Don't   despair,'   Kostas   said   reassuringly.   'I   know   of   a   
brother  who  tried  for  twenty  years  unsuccessfully  to  leave  his  
body.  When  he  decided  to  quit  the  exercises  he  found  himself  
out  of  his  body.  You  should  always  keep  in  mind  the  principle  
of    limits  that  we  find  in  Nature.'  
'What's  that?'  
ice    will    remain    ice    until    a    certain    critical    point    in    
temperature   which   will   transform   it   into   water.   Water   will   
remain  in  its  liquid  form  until  a  certain  point  in  temperature  
which   will  transform   it  into  vapor.   It  is  the   same  with   the   
exercises.  You  may  struggle  for  years  to  accomplish  a  certain  
psychonoetic  feat  and  you  may  get  desperate  that  you  are  not  
progressing.  Yet  you  are  progressing  towards  the  critical  limit  
without  being  aware  of  it.  Some  day,  unexpectedly,  you  will  
wake  up  and  begin  to  live  consciously  within  the  psychonoetic  
worlds.  But  unless  you  persist  and  persevere  you  cannot  go  very  
far.' 
Without  realizing  the  passing  of  time,  we  found  ourselves  
inside  Limassol.  There  was  pandemonium  in  the  streets.  Leftist  
organizations  had  set  up  an  anti-war  rally  against  the  British  
bases  nearby.  The  demonstration  ended  up  at the city park  near  
the  apartment  of  my  in-laws.  We  could  hear,  over  the  loud  
speaker,  political   speeches   and   slogans,   followed   by   protest   
songs  of  Mikis  Theodorakis.  The  famous  Greek  composer  flew  
to   the  island  for  the  purpose  of  attending  the  rally   and  his  
hoarse   voice   could   be   heard   leading   an    impromptu    and    
cacophonous  choir.  
With  great  difficulty  we  managed  to  maneuver  through  the  
crowds  and  reach  on   time  the   apartment  of  one  of  Kostas'  
students  where  the   meeting  was   to   take  place.   Most  of  his  
associates  were  present  except  a  few  who  took  part  in  the  rally.  
After  the  short  prayer  Kostas  read  slowly  a  mimeographed  
lesson  previously  given  by  Daskalos.  It  was  on  the  Absolute  
and  the  nature  of holy  monads.  Individuals who  are emanations 
of    the  same  holy  monad,  Kostas  said,  have  a  particular  affinity  
for  one  another.  With  these  individuals  we  are  telepathically  
connected and  affect one  another.  In the  'realms of separateness' 
we  have  brothers  who  may  even  be  considered  our  enemies  yet  
with  whom  we  are  psychically  linked.  

COSMOLOGY 143 
When   we   evolve   spiritually   we   subconsciously   assist   our   
brethren  to  rise  up  as  well.  'The  spiritual  development  of  each  
leads  towards  the  spiritual  development  of all.'  Our  own  ascent  
therefore   will   depend   on   the   spiritual   development   of   our   
brethren. 
On   several   occasions   Kostas   had   mentioned   to   me   that   
Daskalos,  Iacovos,  Theophanis  and  he  were  part  of  the  same  
holy    monad.    Hence    they    were    in    continuous    telepathic    
communication.  Whatever  happened  to  one,  the  others  felt  it.  
When  Daskalos  had  a  minor  accident  Kostas  claimed  to  have  
automatically  felt  the  pain  right  at  the  spot where Daskalos  was  
hurt.  Kostas  had  to  quit  his  job  and  lie  in  bed  all  day.  There  
was  no  evident  medical  reason  for  his  pains.  
When   the   formal   presentation   ended   there   followed   a   
vigorous  two-hour  discussion  about  holy  monads  and  man's  
relationship  to  the  Absolute.  I  asked  the  last  question.  
'Since  the  Absolute,   as  you   said,   is  all-knowing,   It  must  
know  in  advance  what  our  choices  and  actions  will  be.  Where,  
then,  is  our  freedom  of  choice?'  
My  question  created  an  uproar.  It  seemed  as  if     almost  all  the  
members  in  the  circle  faced  this  dilemma.  Kostas  insisted  that  
man  is  free  and  fully  responsible  for  his  actions  and  for  the  
creation  of  his  own  karma,   if  we  change  the  elementals  we  
project,'  he  said,  'we  can  change  our  destiny.'  Any  projections  
about   the   future,   Kostas   went   on,   are   nothing   more   than   
probabilities   based   on   what   has   happened   so   far.   'Every   
moment  that  passes,  we  are  rewriting  the  history  of  the  future  
based   on   the  choices   we  make.'   Kostas   went  on  to  present  
argument  after  argument  in  support  of  the  notion  that  man  is  
fully  responsible  for  his  own  actions  and  thoughts.  Then  in  an  
earnest  attempt  to  make  us  understand  the  notion  of  free  will,  
he  shared  with  us  a  psychic  experience  he  had  had  sometime  in  
the  past  when  he  was  struggling  with  the  same  issue.  
'Quite  often  there  are  no  words  to  present  certain  truths.  
This  is  a  problem  even  for  Yohannan.  One  day,  in  order  for  
him   to   give   us   a   lesson   on   the   nature   of   the   relationship   
between  the  Absolute  and  the  future,  he  took  us  inside  the  
eternal  present.  We  found  ourselves  within  an  enormous  temple  
suspended  by  gigantic  pillars.  The  floor  of  the  temple,  and  the  
walls,  were  made  of  alabaster.  The  dome  was  made  of  silver.  

144 
COSMOLOGY 
We  looked  at  the  back  of  the  temple  and  we  saw  no  end  to  it.  
At  the  entrance  new  additions  were  constantly  being  created.  It  
appeared  as  if  the  temple  were  continuously  getting  bigger  at  
the  entrance.  As  we  proceeded  inside  the  temple  we  went  back  
into  time.  Yohannan  was  present  but  it  was  another  master  
who  was  giving  us  a  tour  of  the  temple.  On  both  sides  of  the  
walls  there  were  bas-reliefs  and  we  noticed  that  new  ones  were  
ceaselessly  being  engraved.  Daskalos  inquired  to  find  out  what  
they  were.  The  answer  was,  "It  is  the  Logos  which  records  the  
details  of  whatever  takes  place  within  the  universes,  within  the  
worlds  of  separateness."  Daskalos  was  then  given  permission  to  
touch  one  of  the  bas-reliefs   and  momentarily  experience  the  
events  as  they  were  recorded  there.  
'Within  this  temple  of  time  we  saw  nothing  engraved  in  the  
future.  We  were  given  a  lesson  to  understand  that  nothing  is  
pre-recorded   and  that  the  future  is   constantly  being  created  
within   the   eternal   present.   We   were   given   to   understand   
experientially   that   man's   freedom   is   a   reality   and   not   an   
abstract  notion.'  

10 
The  Guardians  of Planet  Earth  
We  were  having  lunch  with  Daskalos  and  Iacovos  at  our  home  
when  the  radio  announcer  reported  on  the  latest  news  about  
Skylab,  the  American  space  laboratory  orbiting  the  Earth.   It   
was  July  11th,  1979,  the  expected  date  of  its  reentry  into  the  
atmosphere,  and  the  world's   media  were  on  the  alert.  Even  
airlines  cancelled  flights  during  the  expected  hour  of  its  fall,  
and  there  was  a  general  feeling  of  uneasiness  and  apprehension.  
It   was  reported  that  the  Americans  lost  control  of  Skylab  and  
there  was  a  possibility  of  its  crashing  over  populated  areas.  
In   a  humorous  mood  Daskalos  described  how  a  few  days  
ago  a  villager  had  knocked  on  his  door  very  late  at  night  asking  
whether  Skylab  was  going  to  fall  on  his  house.  He  was  a  poor  
man  who  had  just  built  himself  a  three-room  home.  His  wife,  
frightened  of  the  news,  had  demanded  that  her  husband  visit  
the   'Magus   of   Strovolos'   to   find   out   what   would   happen.   
Daskalos  was  both  amused  and  annoyed  at  being  disturbed  so  
late  at  night  for  such  a  triviality,  if  it  is  your  kismet  [fate]  to  
have  Skylab  fall  on  you,  it  will  fall  on  you!'  he  said  to  the  
villager.  The  peasant's  fears  were  hardly  eased.  Daskalos  was  
not   always   tolerant   of   people   coming   to   him   for   what   he   
considered  foolish  issues  such  as  fortune  telling.  Poking  fun  at  
people  was  a  habitual  pasdme  for  Daskalos.  One  day  a  man  
came  looking  for  him  while  he  was  in  his  yard  watering  his  
plants.  The  visitor  apparently  took  him  for  the  gardener.  'I  am  
looking  for  that  fakirist,'  he  said.  'Do  you  know  where  he  is?'  
'Yes,'  Daskalos  replied.  'He  is  upstairs  lying  on  his  nails.  Go  
find  him  there.'  The  incredulous  man  walked  up  the  steps  and  
in    a   few   minutes   returned   stating   that   there   was   no   one   
upstairs.   'Was   the  window  open?'   Daskalos   asked,   feigning   
seriousness. 
'Yes.' 
'Oh,  well,'  Daskalos  shrugged,  'he  must  have  flown  away.'  
145 

146 THE  GUARDIANS  OF  PLANET  EARTH  
I   mentioned  casually  that  in  yesterday's  newspaper  I  had  
read  about  an  Indian  yogi  who  claimed  he  was  going  to  try  to  
turn  Skylab  into  ashes.  
'That   is   very   dangerous.   It   can   burn   his   body,'   Iacovos   
remarked. 
'That  Indian  yogi,'  Daskalos  joined  in  as  he  finished  his  last  
bite,  'is  not  the  only  one  who  is  working  on  Skylab.  There  are  
many  mystics  who  are  trying  to  divert  its  trajectory.  I  myself  
have  been   working  on   it  all  day.'   Then   he   turned   abruptly   
towards  Iacovos  and  said,  in  a  low  voice,  'That  rascal,  Loizos,  
was   in   my  house  this   morning  and   understood  what  I  was  
doing.  Sometimes  he  is  so  bright,  sometimes  he  is  like  a  log.'  
I  realized  that  something  significant  was  about  to  take  place  
and  I  searched  for  my  notebook.  Emily  had  already  shut  all  
doors  and  windows  and  spread  the  curtains  in  order  to  keep  
the July  heat out of the  house.  The  streets  were  quiet.  It  was  the  
siesta  period.  All  shops  and  offices  were  closed  between  one  
and  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  There  was  hardly  a  trace  of  
life  in  the  streets.  
Daskalos  said  it  was  time  for  him  to  check  and  see  how  
Skylab  was  doing  'up  there.'  
He  sat  on  the  couch  and  leaned  back  in  a  semi-reclining  
position.  I  was  facing  him,  pen  and  notebook  at  hand.  Emily  
was    sitting   next   to    me   with    a   look   of   puzzlement    and    
bewilderment  in  her  face.  Iacovos  was  on  Daskalos'  other  side,  
his  face  betraying  signs  of  anxiety.  
'Would  you  come  up  with  me?'  Daskalos  asked  him.  
'No,'  he  replied  wryly.  
Daskalos  closed  his  eyes  as  he  was  getting  ready  to  leave  his  
body.  Iacovos,  an  intense  expression  on  his  face,  focused  at  his  
master's  navel  as  the  latter  appeared  to  be  in  a  state  of  trance.  
We  silently  observed  what  was  taking  place.  There  was  an  eerie  
feeling  in  the  air.  In  ten  minutes  Daskalos  woke  up.  
it   is  very  dark  up   there,'  he  observed  somberly.  'There  are  
others   also.    I   saw    some   Indians,   Tibetans,    and   a   black   
American.  I  was  the  only  European.  They  seemed  to  be  afraid  
of    the  darkness  and they  stayed  far  away  from  Skylab.  I  tried  to  
get   as   close   as   I   could.   It   vibrates   demonically.'   Daskalos   
demonstrated  with  his  hand  how  Skylab  moved.  
'Daskale,  what  did  you  do  up  there?'  I  asked.  

147 THE GUARDIANS OF PLANET EARTH 
i  tried  to  push  it  to  the  southern  hemisphere  where  there  is  
more  water  and  there  are  fewer  people.'  
'Just  how  did  you  try  to  push  Skylab  towards  the  southern  
hemisphere?' 
i   created   with   my   mind   a  moonlike   disc   and   directed   it   
towards   Skylab   so  that   it  would   bounce  back   and   push   it   
towards  the  south.'  Daskalos   then  mentioned  that  his  Silver  
Cord  was  pulling  him  back  to  his  body.  
'That  was  the  reason,'  Daskalos  continued,  'that  the  space  
around   my   Solar   Plexus   was   vibrating   so   much,   as   you   
probably  noticed.'  We  had  not.  Only  Iacovos  had  noticed.  
'Why  don't  you  join  me  this  time,  to  help  push  it  south?'  
Daskalos   again   urged   him.   Iacovos   refused   once   more.   He   
preferred,  instead,  to  keep  a  watch  over  his  master's  body.  He  
apparently   considered   Daskalos'   adventure   quite   dangerous   
and  could  hardly  hide  his  anxiety.  
'As  long as  I  am  breathing,'  Daskalos  instructed him,  'do  not  
disturb  me.  Don't  repeat,'  he  said  laughing,  'the  slap  you  gave  
me on  the  face  last  time  to  force  me to  return.'  He  was  referring  
to   an  incident  when  Iacovos  had  'forced'  him  to  come  back  to  
his  body  while  in  a  state  of  exomatosis.  
Daskalos  closed  his  eyes.  He  appeared  to  be  in  a  state  of  
deep  trance.  Iacovos  kept  guard.  Emily  and  I  remained  silent,  
passive  spectators  to  the  strange  drama  that  was  unfolding  in  
front  of  our  eyes.  In  a  few  minutes  Daskalos  opened  his  eyes  
again. 
'Skylab  is  moving  with  tremendous  speed  and  vibrates  like  a  
drunkard,'    he    reported    and    once    more    demonstrated    its    
movements  with  his  hand.  He  then  closed  his  eyes  and  went  
into   an   even   deeper   trance.   Several   minutes   went   by   and   
Iacovos   appeared   more   anxious   than   before.   He   asked   me   
whether  Daskalos  had  been  up  for  more  than  ten  minutes.  
'No,   he   has   been   up   for   just  over   seven   minutes.'  Then  
Iacovos  took  Daskalos'  right  wrist  and  checked  his  heart  beat.  
it   is  time  for  him  to  return,'  he  murmured  and  looked  at  us  
as    if    we  had  a  say.  As soon  as he finished his  sentence, Daskalos 
opened  his  eyes.  He  was  fully  alert  and  very  excited  with  the  
experience  he  had  just  had.  
it    is   as   big   as   a   minaret   and   it   is   ready   to   reenter   the   
atmosphere.'  I  found  the  use  of  the  minaret  metaphor  rather  

148 
THE  GUARDIANS  OF  PLANET  EARTH  
amusing  and  despite  the  gravity  of  the  occasion,  had  a  difficult  
time  keeping  a  straight  face.  
Daskalos  paused  for  a  moment  and  looked  at  us.  He  must  
have  perceived  our  incredulity.  He  smiled,  saying that  perhaps  I  
should not talk publicly  about what  we had  just witnessed.  One  
can  easily  get  'scandalized.'  Daskalos  was  concerned  that  the  
great  messages  and  teachings  coming  through  Yohannan  may  
not  be  taken  seriously  if     incidents  that  appear too  'fantastic'  are  
reported.  I  confess  that  I  have  succumbed  to  the  temptation  to  
narrate  this  extraordinary  experience  during  that  hot  day  in  
July.   I   was   certain   that   their   experience   was   genuine   and   
authentic,   regardless   of   the   fact   that,   to   us,   it   appeared   
extraordinary,  to   say  the  least.   Of  course   I  had  no   way   of   
testing  the  'objective  reality'  of  their  experience  since  I  could  
not  'go  up'  myself.  
'Did  you  change  your  mind?'  Daskalos  urged  Iacovos  once  
more. 
'No.'   The   apprentice   preferred   to   monitor   his   master's   
physical  condition   like  an   attentive   medic.   Daskalos  entered  
into  a  trance  again.  There  were  stillness  and  silence in  the  room  
as    we  waited  for  Daskalos'  next  move.  When  he  opened  his  
eyes  he  appeared  more  excited  than  ever.  
'I   just  saw  three  flying  saucers.  The  entities  inside  communi-
cated  with  me  and  asked  me  to  stop  sending  the  moonlike  discs  
against  Skylab  because  they  disturbed  its  balance.  Their  method  
was  better,  they  said,  and  they  invited  me  to  move  onto  their  
side   and   observe   their  work.'   He   then  explained  that  these  
beings  beamed   rays  of  light  against  Skylab  and  then   moved   
south  in  an  attempt  to  pull  it  along  with  them.  Daskalos  took  
Iacovos'    hand    and    urged    him    once    again    to    join    him.    
Meanwhile  1  turned  my  transistor  on  softly  to  hear  the  latest  
BBC  news.  The  announcer  reported  that  the  Americans  hoped  
the  spaceship  would  fall  in  the  south  Atlantic  or  in  the  Indian  
Ocean.  They  still  had  no  control  over  it  and  worried  that  it  
might  fall  over  populated  areas.  When  Daskalos  came  out  of  
his  trance  once  more,  he  continued  in  an  animated  voice  to  
narrate  his  experiences  with  the  extraterrestrials.  
'These  entities  are  really  advanced.  They  live  in  the  higher  
noetic  world  and  have  no  form.  They  asked  me  to  abandon  the  
image  of  myself  and  join  them.'  

149 THE GUARDIANS OF PLANET EARTH 
'Must  you  really?'  Iacovos  muttered,  knowing  full  well  that  
it   was  hopeless  to  dissuade  his  master.  
'Oh  yes,'  Daskalos  said  stubbornly,  and  explained  what  he  
was  about  to  do.  
'Now  I  must  leave  behind  the  image  of  myself  and  ascend  
formless  with  only  my  self-awareness.'  
While  he  explained  his  new  adventure,  Emily  hastily  stepped  
out  of  the  house  to  receive  our  two  children  whom  my  sister  
had  just  brought  over.   Constantine,  my  two-and-a-half-year-
old  son,  moved to  another  room  and  played  by  himself  whereas  
Vasia,  our  six-month-old  daughter,  crawled  noisily  on  the  floor  
in   front  of  Daskalos.  I  asked  whether  the  baby  talk  interfered  
with  what  he  was  doing.  He  reassured  us  that the  noise  was  no  
problem  and  that  we  could  even  play  music  if  we  so  wished.  
Then,  after  his  brief  rest,  he  got  into  his  self-induced  trance  
once  more.   I  noticed  that  this  time  his  hands  were  shaking  
violently   and   he   was   making   spasmodic   facial   movements.   
Iacovos   continued   to   be   on   the  alert.  Ten  minutes  later  he  
checked  Daskalos'  pulse.  In  a  whispering voice he  reported  that  
it   had  reached  one  hundred  and  ten  beats  per  minute.  Daskalos  
soon  opened  his  eyes.  
'They  are having problems pushing it.  It    whistles demonically, 
making  a  deafening  noise.  These  superintelligences  are  working  
very  hard.  We  are  so  insignificant  in  comparison  to  them.  If  
they   fail   to   change   its   trajectory,   it   is   going   to   fall   over   
Canada.'  He  then  got  ready  to  'go  up'  again.  
'Let  my  heartbeat  go  as  high  as  one  hundred  and  forty.  It  
will  be  easier  for  me,'  he  instructed  his  disciple.  
'Are  you  sure  what  you  are  doing  is  not  dangerous?'  I  re-
marked,  as  I  noticed  Iacovos'  face  drop  in  almost  total  despair.  
it   will  be  more   dangerous  if  we  do  not  manage  to  push  
Skylab  south.  This  is  the  first  time  I  have  done  such  a  thing,'  
Daskalos  added  and  then  closed  his  eyes.  Eight  minutes  passed  
while  Iacovos  monitored  his  master's  pulse.  
it   got  to  the  desired  trajectory,'  Daskalos  remarked  as  he  
came  out  of  his  trance,  fully  satisfied  about  a  job  well  done.  
'Daskale,  could  someone  see  those  beings  with  naked  eyes?'  
'No,  they  live  in  the  noetic world.  They  have  no  form.'  Then  
he  proceeded  to  relate  his  experience  with  the  extraterrestrials  
in   greater  detail.  

150 THE  GUARDIANS  OF  PLANET  EARTH  
4
  "We  are  the  guardians  of  garden  Earth,"  they  said.  "Your  
Earth  is  like  a  nursery  school  of  noisy  infants."  "It  is  a  garden  
full  of  parasites  and viruses,"  I  replied.  "No,  it  is  an  expression  
of    Life,"  they  answered  back.  
'They  seemed  as  if  they  were  working  in  groups  which  gave  
me  the  impression  of  flying  saucers.  I  asked  them  whether  they  
in    fact   were   flying   saucers   but   they   seemed   to   ignore   my   
question.   Their   response   instead   was   that   they   are   "space   
people."   They   live   around   our   planet.   The   Earth   looks   a   
beautiful  ball  from  up  there.  
i  communicated  with  these  beings  by  coordinating   myself   
with   them.   I   was   inside   them   and   they   were   inside   me.   I   
expressed  a  wish  to  meet  them  again  and  invited  them  to  come  
down  to  Earth.  They   refused.  They  preferred,  they  said,   to   
watch  us  from  afar.  "You  know  the  way,  come  and  meet  us  
here,"  they  replied.  
'Perhaps  it     is  not  pleasant  for them  to  visit the  Earth.  When  I  
was  about  to  return  to  my  body  they  advised  me,  "Come  pass  
through  us  so that  you  may  go  down  rested."  I  felt  very  relaxed  
after    that.    They    truly    love    us.'    Daskalos    expressed    his    
amazement and  ruminated  upon  the  nature  of these superintelli-
gences. 
'I   felt  as  if  they  were  a  form  of  light  with  vibrating  intensity.  
They   are   innumerable.'   There   was    a   pause    as   Daskalos   
pondered   over   his    experience.    'Thought    is    something   so   
beautiful!  I  was  receiving  their thoughts  and  I  could  understand  
them.  I  had  the  impression  that  whatever  I  knew  they  knew.  
They  are  probably  archangelic  forces.'  
'Do  you  think  they  have  self-consciousness?'  
'Apparently  they  do.'  
'But   is   this   not   contrary   to   what   you   told   us   about   
archangelic  forms  which  are  Holyspiritual  entities  rather  than  
Logoic?' 
'Perhaps  what  is  valid  on  Earth  may  not  apply  on  higher  
levels  of  consciousness.   Holyspiritual  entities,  therefore,   may   
also  have  self-consciousness.  I  must  study  this.'  
It   was  four-thirty  in  the  afternoon  and  the  streets  were  alive  
again.  The  heat  had  subsided  and  the  afternoon  breezes  from  
the  sea  were  bringing  relief.  Daskalos  asked  me  to  drive  him  
home.  On  our  way  he  marveled  at  this  unique  and  exhilarating  

151 THE GUARDIANS OF PLANET EARTH 
experience  which  he  dearly  cherished.  
At  nine  in  the  evening  1  listened  to  the  BBC.  The  announcer  
reported   that   the   American   scientists   began   to   have   limited   
control   over   Skylab.   However,   it   could   still   crash   over   the   
northeast  United  States  or  over  Canada.  Later  on  that  night  the  
BBC  announced  that  parts  of  Skylab  had  fallen  in  the  Indian  
Ocean  and  in  an  uninhabited  region  of  Australia.  Everybody  
was  relieved.  
I   met   Iacovos   the   following   day   and   chatted   about   the   
unusual   event.   I   asked   him   whether   he   actually   witnessed   
Daskalos  coming  out  of  his  body.   Iacovos  explained  that  he  
saw  Daskalos  leave  his  body  like  a  smoke  going  up  through  the  
top  of  his  head.  What  appeared  like  a  smoke  was  actually  part  
of    Daskalos'  etheric.  He  used  the  etheric-double  of  his  gross  
material  body  because  he  was  working  on  the  etheric-double  of  
the  material  Earth.  Skylab  was  not  on  the  psychic  but  on  the  
material  Earth.  Iacovos  pointed  out  that  Daskalos'  heartbeat  
reached  up  to one  hundred  and  forty.  It was for  this  reason  that  
he  repeatedly  refused  to  join  him.  He  had  to  keep  an  eye  on  his  
physical    condition    because    that    kind    of   work   was   very   
dangerous. 
Later  in  the  day  we  met  with  Daskalos  and  continued  our  
discussion   about  Skylab.   He   mentioned   that   as   soon   as   he   
reached  home  he  went  'up  again'  to  keep  a  watch  on  Skylab.  
The  moment  it     entered  the  atmosphere  it  began  moving  up  and  
down  like  a  fast  speed  boat  over  the  surface  of  the  sea.  
'The   Americans,'   Iacovos   remarked   with   irony,   'reported   
that  they  were  unable  to  control  Skylab  and  were  worried  that  
it   was  going  to  fall  over  Canada  and  Maine.  Then  all  of  a  
sudden  they  beamed  a  signal  and  moved  it  south.'  
'Had   it   not   been   for   these   superintelligences,'   Daskalos   
added,    'Skylab    would    most   probably    have    crashed    over    
Canada.  I  saw  them  three  times  trying  to  pull  it  south.  They  
waited  until  it  appeared  on  the  horizon  and  then  beamed  rays  
of    light  towards  it.  The  Americans  should  learn  how  to  build  
Skylabs  that  disintegrate  once  they  enter  the  atmosphere.'  
It   was  early  evening  and  Daskalos  seemed  to  be  in  a  relaxed  
and  talkative  mood.  Uncharacteristically  we  had  no  telephone  
interruptions  or  visitations.  After  Iacovos  brewed  three  cups  of  
Turkish  coffee  we  continued  chatting  until  late  in  the  evening.  

152 
THE  GUARDIANS  OF  PLANET  EARTH  
I  asked  Daskalos  whether  he  had  any  prior  contacts  with  
extraterrestrial  beings  other  than  those  he  encountered  while  
working  on  Skylab.  
'Yes,'  he  said,  and  began  to  narrate  another  encounter  he  
had  had  with  such  a  being  some  time  in  the  past.  
i  felt  him  somewhere  near  Petra  Tou  Romiou  [a  spot  on  the  
southern  shore  where,  according  to  Homeric  legend,  Aphrodite  
was  born.  According  to  Daskalos  it  is  one  of  the  energy  or  
magnetic   centers   of   the   planet],   I   was   in   exomatosis   with   
Iacovos  and  Theophanis.  After  I  escorted  them  back  to  their  
bodies  I  returned  to  the  same  place  in  search  of  him.  "But  I  
have  seen  you,"   I  muttered,  "where  are  you?"   "I  am  inside  
you,"  he  whispered.  "I  am  inside  you  so  that  we  can  have  a  
common  center  for  communication.  How  would  you  like  me  to  
give  you  some experiences?  Spread out,"  he  commanded  me.  "I  
can  do  this,"  I  responded.  "I  know  that  you  can  do  it,  but  now  
it   is  going  to  be  through  a  different  method."  "What  do  you  
mean?"   "Just  wait  and  you  will  see."   For  a  moment  I   felt   
everything  was  inside  me  and  that  I  spread  over  a  large  area.  
"Become the pulsation  of  Life.  Forget  who  you are."  "No,  I  am  
afraid,"  I  told  him.  "Forget  that  you  are  a  separate  entity.  No  
matter   how    much   you    imagine   you   have   stripped   your   
personality,  you  are  still  bound  to  it."  "What  do  you  mean?"  I  
asked.  "Stop  feeling  that  you  are  an  entity."  "Are  you  asking  
me  to  become  annihilated  inside  God?"  "Why?  Do  you  think  
you  get  annihilated  when  you  become  the  breath  of  Life,  here,  
everywhere,  inside  everything?"  "Yes,"  I  said.   "And  yet  you  
become more,  you expand more, you do not become annihilated. 
Without  losing   your   beingness   you  can   emancipate  yourself  
from  its  limitations,  you  are  not  transformed  into  zero.  Take  
this  space.  Become the  breath  of this  place,  the  breath  of  water,  
of    Life,  everywhere.  You  will  see  how  beautiful  it  is!"  "I  am  
afraid."   "Just   a   moment,"   he   replied,   "you   will   see   that   
through  me  you  will  not  be  afraid."  For  a  moment  I  turned  
around  and  I was able to  see him.  He  was  absolutely  beautiful!'  
'Did  he  have  a  human  form?'  
'The  idea  of  man,  not  the  form.  He  was  a  human  idea.  
'  "I   am   confused,"    I   said,   "but   I   do   know   I   exist."   
"Whenever  you  look  at  yourself  in  the  mirror  and  say  I  exist,"  
he  replied, "it is  an  illusion.  When  you  talk about the self,  what  

153 THE GUARDIANS OF PLANET EARTH 
do    you    understand?"    "Love."    "Now    we   are    in    perfect    
agreement.  When  you  say  Love  you  imply  the  image  of  persons  
you  love.  You  become  one  with  them.  It  is  not  you."  "Do  you  
know,"  I  replied,  "that  I  understand  and  feel  what  you  say  but  
that   you    are   creating   confusion   in   me?"    "It   is   through   
confusion  that  you  will  enter  into  Knowledge.  Because  if  you  
do  not  get  confused  you  will  not  focus  your  attention  toward  
discovering  the  Truth  and  you  will  not  find  it.   You  will   be   
content   with   situations   that   are  not  the  Truth."   "I  am  not  
ready,  for  the  time  being  Daskale,  to  follow  you."  He  began  
laughing.  "Ha,  ha,  ha.  How  much  you  are  enchanted  with  this  
word  and  you  pass  it  on  to  me  like  a  lollypop  that  you  give  to  
your  grandson  to  lick.  This  'Daskale'  ..."'  
Daskalos  laughed  heartily  as  he  reminisced  over  the  ironical  
comments  of  the  extraterrestrial  and  continued.  
'  "I   cannot   understand  you,"   I   said   to  him.   "In   spite   of   
everything  you  do  understand  me  perfectly.  But  you  get  tired  
because  you  do  not  want  to  rid  yourself  of  certain  illusions.  
However,   you   are   ready   to   overcome   them   without   pain   
whenever  you  wish."   "Are  you  perhaps  guiding  me  to  some  
form  of  annihilation,  universalism?"  I  asked  him.  "Aren't  you  
using  nice  words!  What  do  you  understand  by  universalism?"  
"Well,   to  feel   everything   and  not  feel  that  I   am   a   separate   
entity."  "How  can  that  be?  It  simply  means  that  instead  of  you  
being    Iacovos,    Marios    [grandson],    Nina,    Yianna    [grand-
daughters]   you   become  that  and  more.   Do  you  understand?  
Vibrate  less."  "No,  I  will  not  vibrate  less."  "Go  back.  You  are  
not  ready  yet."  "Do  you  have  a  family?"  I  asked  him.  "Do  you  
love   your   father,   mother   and   children?"    "What   did   your   
Master   say,   the   Great   and   Most   Beloved   One?   Whosoever   
abandons  father,  mother  and  children  for  my  sake  I  shall  give  
him  one  hundredfold  from  that,  and  father  and  mother  and  
children.  Christ  said  that  in  the  New  Testament  did  he  not?  
Have   you   thought   out   the   meaning  of   His   words?"   "I   am   
tired,"  I  replied.  "We  shall  continue  the  lesson  later."  '  
'He  is  powerful!  And  what  jolts  he  was  giving  you!'  Iacovos  
exclaimed  in  the  midst  of  laughter.  
'He  looked  at  me,'  Daskalos  added,  and  said  "Love,  do  you  
know   that   you   are  me?"   "No.   I   don't   want   this,"   I   said.   
"Whether  you   like  it  or  not  you  are."   "When   you  say  me,  

154 
THE  GUARDIANS  OF  PLANET  EARTH  
which  me  are  you  talking  about  since  you  wish  to  annihilate  
myself?"  I  asked  him.  "I  want  to  put  you  into  the  great  Self  
into  bigger  frames."  '  
'Was  this  conversation  carried  on  in  Greek?'  I  interjected  
and  immediately  realized  that  my  question  was  irrelevant.  
'He  talks  to  you  the  way  you  will  understand.  Besides,  if  1  
want  him  to  draw  me  only  with  thoughts,  communication  is  
much  easier.  You  lose  the  meaning  of  time  and  space  and  you  
enter  into  the  Present  inside  Reality,  into  the  Life  of  things.'  
'Did  you  have  this  dialogue,'  I  continued,  'right  at  the  Petra  
Tou    RomiouV    
'That  was   the  focal  point,   but  we  spread  out  within   the   
psychic  plane  of  the  area.  How  much  of  Cyprus  I  am  not  sure.  
It   is  not  easy  to  make  you  understand.  How  am  I  going  to  
make  you  see  all  those  infinite  pictures?'  
'Daskale,  was  he  a  theosized  human  being?'  
'I   don't  know.  I  did  not  ask  him.'  
'Was  he,  perhaps,  an  archangel  like  Michael  or  Gabriel?'  I  
persisted. 
'Perhaps  he  is  one  of  a  higher  class.  A  mart  is  superior  to  
those  archangels  that  are  so  monolithic.  They  know  their  job  
and  nothing  else.  They  simply  obey  the  command  of  the  Lord.  
'I   am  telling  you,'  Daskalos  continued,  'it  is  not  painless  to  
give  up  what  we  hold  onto.'  
'I   have  thought  about  this  before,'  Iacovos  remarked.  
'And  who  told  you  that  they  don't  work  on  you  subcon-
sciously  without  your  realizing  it?'  
'Now  that  you  mention  it,'  Iacovos  added,  'I  am  beginning  
to   suspect  that  it  is  so.'  
'He talked  to  me  a  lot  about him,'  Daskalos  said,  pointing  at  
Iacovos.  'At  one  moment  he  said  "It  is  he  that  you  are  afraid  
you   will   lose."    Then   he   revealed   to   me   certain   matters   
concerning  my  family  that  shook  me  up.'  
'Did  he  tell  you   anything  about  Nicos   [Daskalos'  son-in-
law]?'  Iacovos  asked.  
'  "If  you  withdraw  yourself  from  him  he  is  lost.  He  suffers  
when he is   away from you. But now he is   getting an experience." 
"I    want   to   move   away,"   I   said.   "What   does   move   away   
mean?"  he  answered  back.  "The  more  you  try  to  move  your-
self  away  from  him,  the  more  attached  you  become  to  him."  

155 THE GUARDIANS OF PLANET EARTH 
'Can  you  explain  this  to  me?'  Daskalos  asked  Iacovos  with  
intense  inquisitiveness.  'He  talked  to  me  about  so  many  matters  
that  I  could  not  understand.'  
'I     wish    you    could    think    like   him,'    Iacovos    remarked    
teasingly. 
'But   how   could   I   think   like   him?'   Daskalos   responded   
apologetically.  'Do  you  know  what  else  he  said  to  me?  "We  
shall  discuss  what  Love  is  because  you  only  imagine  what  it    is." 
"What  do  you  mean?"  I  asked.  "You  focus  your  attention  on  
the   molecules   of   Love   and   you   think  you   know   Love.   The   
material  body,"  he  said,  "no  matter  how  perfect  it  is,  and  how  
much  the  very  Beloved  One  sanctified  it,  is  not  absolute  Love."  
"I   know  what  you  are  driving  at.  But  are  you  calling  this  evil?"  
I   replied.   "No.   I   would   not   call   it   evil.   I   would   call   it   
incompleteness.  Can  you  see  the  beloved  person  from  a  higher  
perspective?"  "But  it     is  beautiful  right  from  here,"  I  pleaded.  "I  
did   not   say   it   is   not   beautiful,   but   does   it   stop   being   an   
enchantment?"  "It  is  Love,"  I  replied.  "Do  you  see  that  you  do  
not  know  what  Love  is  really  all  about?  Suppose  at  this  very  
moment  the  beloved  person,  because  of  Karma,  loses  his  body  
and  you  are  deprived  of  him,"  he  said.  "Karma  caused  that  to  
happen  and  gave  him  [Iacovos]  back  to  me."  "Fine,"  he  said,  
"Karma  gave  him  back  to  you  because  you  wanted  him.  But  
can  you find Love  beyond  the  form?"  "Yes,"  I  said.  "Then  why  
don't  you  focus  your  attention  there?  Why  do  you  need  the  
form?"  "Because  the  form  is  beautiful,"  I  replied.  "I  did not  say  
that  it  is  not  beautiful,  it  is  imperfect.  You  are  too  small  for  a  
God.  You  are  too  big  for  a  man."  "Thank  God,"  I  said,  "I  am  
not   a   small   man,"  '   and   Daskalos   burst  with   laughter   and   
continued   narrating   his   psychoanalytic   encounter   with   the   
extraterrestrial. 
'He  was  sending  me  thoughts.  "Abandon  the  image.  Cease  
to    be  enamored  by   the  image  of  the  material   body.   Spread   
inside  Love.  When  I  show  you  those  you  love  inside  Love  you  
will  not  care  whether  they  have  material  bodies  or  not."  "Why  
did   you   not   show   me  when   he   left  then?"   "You   were  not  
mature    enough    and    you    would    not    have    been    able    to    
understand  at  the  time."  '  
'Who  left  when?'  I  asked  quickly.  
'That's   who,'    Daskalos   said   after   pointing   at   Iacovos.   

156 THE  GUARDIANS  OF  PLANET  EARTH  
Daskalos  referred  to  Iacovos'  death  in  his  previous  life.  
'He  had   such   a  fine  sense  of  humor,'  Daskalos  remarked  
laughing. 
'Did   anything   stay   with   you   of  what   he   had   told  you?'  
Iacovos  chuckled.  
'How  can  I  know?'  Daskalos  replied  shrugging  his  shoulders.  
'I   wish  you  thought  about  all  the  things  he  told  you  on  your  
own,'  Iacovos  said.  
'Have  you  thought  about  such  matters  yourself?'  Daskalos  
fired  back.  
'Not  about  all  of  them,'  Iacovos  said  laughing.  
'And   who   told   you   that   you   actually   came   across   such   
thoughts    on    your    own?    Perhaps    you    got    them    through    
reflection?' 
'I   cannot  know  that,'  Iacovos  continued,  giggling.  'Perhaps  I  
got  them  through  you.'  
'Next  time,'  Daskalos  added  playfully,  'I  will  not  put  you  
back  in  your  body.  I  will  tell  him  "grab  this  fellow  from  the  
hair  and  let  him  have  some  experiences."  '  
'I   would  love  that,'  Iacovos  replied  and  his  eyes  sparkled.  
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  'have  you  met  any  of  these  superintelli-
gences  here  on  Earth,  among  other  human  beings?'  
'You  mean  while  walking  in  the  street?'  
'Yes.' 
'Several.  They  move  and  look  like  ordinary  people.  I  can  
spot   them   through   their   aura   and   communicate   with   them   
through  thought.  One  day  I  was  walking  on  Ermou  Street  right  
in   the  heart  of  the  bazaar.  It  was  the  first  time  I  encountered  
such  a  being.'  
'Did  he  have  a  name?'  
it   is  possible  that  when  such  a  superintelligence  comes  down  
he  acquires  a  name.  The  one  I  met  is  a  great  master.  The  Logos  
blinded  him  temporarily  when  he  appeared  in  front  of  him  like  
fire.  Now  do  you  understand  who  I  am  talking  about?'  
Iacovos  nodded  affirmatively  but  it  required  further  probing  
on  my  part  to  realize  to  whom  he  was  referring.  
'Was  he  a  Cypriot?'  I  asked  rather  naively.  
'No,' Daskalos  replied  lowering his  voice.  'He was  Saint  Paul  
who  in  his  present  incarnation  lives  as  Father  Hilarion  down  
in    the   Sudan.   Some   friends   of   mine   met   him   there.   He   

157 THE GUARDIANS OF PLANET EARTH 
materializes  and  dematerializes  like  a  great  master.  
'He  came  with  a  material  body,'  Daskalos  continued  with  a  
serious  look  in  his  face,  it  was  at  the  time  when  my  wife  was  
still  alive.  I  was  at  the  market  when  I  suddenly  felt  him.  After  a  
few    moments    1    spotted    him    walking    in    the    street   and   
communicated  with  him  by  thought.  "Master,  is  that  you?"  He  
turned  around,  smiled  at  me  and  continued  walking.  At  that  
moment  there  was  a  cart  coming  from  behind  him.  "Watch  out  
you  stupid  idiot  or  I'll  run  you  over,"  shouted  the  driver.  He  
looked  back  and  talked  to   him  in  impeccable  Greek,   "I  am  
sorry,   sir,"   and   moved   to   the   side   of   the   street.'   Daskalos   
laughed  as  he  recounted  the  incident.  
'Why  did  he  materialize  himself?'  Iacovos  asked.  
'I   have  no  idea.  But  I  did  see  him  with  a  material  body,  with  
clothes.  I  tried  to  come  near  him  and  suddenly  I  lost  him.  Kyrie  
Eleison,  I  muttered.  On  my  return  home  I  found  him  chatting  
with  my  wife.  "Do  you  know  who  he  is?"  I  asked,  pointing  at  
the  visitor.  "I  saw  him  sitting  on  the  side  of  your  bed  the  day  
you  were  sick.  That  is  Father  Hilarion,"  she  said.  He  joined  us  
for  dinner  and  we  had  a  long  talk.  He  was  in  a  material  body.  
He  even  ate  beans  and  onions.  As  he  was  getting ready  to  leave  
he  mentioned  that  he  was  on  his  way  to  various  parts  of  the  
island   to   place   talismans.   I   could   not   understand   what  the  
purpose  of  his  visit  was.  He  disappeared  from  our  midst  as  my  
wife  went  to  the  kitchen  to  fetch  something.  A  few  days  later  I  
met  him   again.   "Do  not   mention   anything  about  what  you  
have  just  experienced,"  he  said  to  me.  
'Now  you  may  ask  why  is  he  doing  all  these  things?  I  do not 
know.  It  is  a  Divine  Plan  that  we cannot  comprehend.  At least  I  
cannot  comprehend.   Other  masters  do  not  materialize  them-
selves.  They  remain  in  the  psychic  world  and  work  from  up  
there.  They  work  in  different ways.'  Daskalos  suddenly  stopped  
his  narration  and  gazed  at  me  in  the  eyes.  
'Now   we    have   completely    confused   you,   Kyriaco,'    he    
cracked  and  roared  with  laughter.  
He  was  not  far  from  the  truth.  These  'fantastic'  stories  were  
part  of  his  daily  reality.  For  my  ordinary  conventional  mind  
they  were  not  easy  to  digest.  Yet  what  was  puzzling  to  me  was  
that  Daskalos  was  neither  trying  to  fool  me  nor  was  he  trying  
to   impress  me.  In  every  other  respect  he  was  like  any  mortal,  

158 
THE  GUARDIANS  OF  PLANET  EARTH  
yet  a  man  extraordinarily  gifted  who  could  accomplish  feats  of  
healing   that   were   truly   miraculous   and   seemed   to   defy   a   
conventional  scientific  explanation.  

11 
Tales  of Possession 
It    was   already   midsummer.   The   thermometer   showed   41   
degrees  Celsius  and  the  weatherman  threatened  that  the  heat  
was  to  reach  43  degrees.  The  streets  of  Nicosia  were  deserted.  
The  populace,  in  spite  of  the  energy  crisis,  headed  en  masse  
towards  the  coast  for  a  refreshing  splash  in  the  Mediterranean.  
But  going  to  the  sea  on  Sunday  was  a  tortuous  odyssey  in  itself  
as     access   to  the  northern   shore  was   cut  off  by  the  Turkish  
forces  of  occupation.  Only  the  southern  coast  was  accessible  
and   there   was   only   one   crowded   highway   left   linking   the   
capital  with  that  part  of  the  island.  
I  preferred  to  stay  home,  work  on  my  notes  and  listen  to  the  
sad  tunes  of  the  radio.   It  was  July   15th,   an  official  day  of  
mourning   for   Greek   Cypriots.   On   that   date   in   1974   the   
military   junta   that   ruled   Greece   at   the   time   carried   out   a   
disastrous  coup  against  the  Cyprus  government  that  provoked  
the  Turkish  invasion.  
I  made  arrangements  to  meet  Daskalos  and  Iacovos  late  in  
the  afternoon.  Kostas  telephoned  that  he  could  not  come.  As  
a  volunteer  in  civil  defense  he  had   to   attend  a  special  drill  
session. 
Iacovos    spent    the    day    assisting    his    brother    with    the    
construction  of  his  new  house.  When  he  came  to  our  place  he  
consumed  large  quantities  of  water.  Laboring  all  day  under  a  
merciless  sun  had  dehydrated  him.  
We  arrived  at  Daskalos'  at  seven  o'clock  but  found  nobody  
there.  The  door  was  unlocked  and  we  sat  inside  waiting.  In  a  
few  minutes  Daskalos  arrived  with  Loizos.  He  was  pleased  to  
see  us  but  looked  tired.  He  went  straight  to  the  refrigerator  for  
a  glass  of  cool  water.  He  had  spent  the  entire  day  at  Larnaca  
visiting  patients  and  trying  to  help  a  couple  who  were  facing  
marital  problems.  He  was  satisfied  because  he  helped  save  the  
marriage   and   went   on   narrating   the   day's   events.   Iacovos   
159 

160 
TALES  OF  POSSESSION  
seemed   somewhat   impatient   and   after   a   while   interrupted   
Daskalos'  monologue.  
'This   is   not   why   we   are   here,'   he   said   somberly.   The   
inference  was  that  we  had  come  to  continue  a  discussion  we  
started  earlier  on  mental  illness.  
'But  I   thought   you   came   here   just   to   see   me!'   Daskalos   
responded  playfully,  feigning  disappointment.  'My  dear  Iacovo,  
please  make  me  a  cup  of  coffee.'  Daskalos  was  in  a  teasing  
mood  and  Iacovos  responded  in  kind.  
'Iacovos,'  Daskalos  said  to  me  after  taking  a  sip  of  coffee,  'is  
not  as  tolerant  as  he  ought  to  be.  I  noticed  for  example  that  he  
finds  it  hard  to  tolerate  Niciforos.'  
'That's  right.  I  cannot  tolerate  him  to  the  same  extent  that  
you  do,  going  there  night  after  night....'  
'But   he   needs   me!'   Daskalos   pleaded.   'That   idiot   could   
commit  suicide  if  I  were  to  abandon  him.  I  have  to  be  very  
patient  with  him  and  not  expect  him  to  meet  our  standards.  
If   he  commits  suicide  I  will  have  him  on  my  neck  day  and  
night.' 
in   what  way?'  I  asked  curiously.  
Daskalos  explained  that  those  who  commit  suicide  may  find  
themselves  in  a  difficult  situation  when  they  enter  the  psychic  
world.  Occasionally  such  persons  may  be  trapped  in  the  etheric  
of     the   gross   material   world,   unable   to   move   to   the   higher   
psychic  planes.   The  individual   may  vibrate  too  close  to  the  
material  world  which  will  not  allow  him  to  find  rest.  
'So,'  Daskalos  continued  by  turning  to  Iacovos,  'we  have  to  
watch    Niciforos    very    carefully.'    Apparenty    he    felt    that    
Niciforos  was  a  potential  victim.  I  mentioned  that  I  was  not  
sure  whether  I  understood  what  he  meant  when  he  said  that  a  
person  after  death  may  continue  living  in  the  etheric  world  and  
be  attached  to  the  gross  material  plane.  
'Perhaps,'  Daskalos  said  thoughtfully,  'a  better  way  to  make  
you  understand  is  to  describe  certain  cases  that  I  have  encoun-
tered.'  I  started  getting  ready  to  set  up  my  tape  recorder.  'No  
taping  for  these  stories,'  Daskalos  said  categorically.  I  realized  
that  die  'stories'  which  he  was  about  to  discuss  must  have  been  
highly  unusual  or  controversial  and  one  way  of  protecting him-
self was to forbid taping. I picked up my writing pad instead and 
got  ready  to  note  down  everything  he  was  about  to  say.  

161 TALES OF POSSESSION 
'Many  years  ago,'  he  began  slowly,  'an  engaged  couple  lived  
together  without  being  married  for  four  years.  Throughout  this  
period  the  girl   remained  a  virgin.   She  would  not  allow  her  
fiance  to  consummate  their  relationship.  In  the  fourth  year  he  
got  tuberculosis  and  the  doctor  isolated  him  in  a  tent  outside  of  
Nicosia.  The  girl  promised  him  that  they  would  get  married  as  
soon  as  he  got well.  His  great torment  was  that  during the  four  
years  of  their  relationship  she  would  not  allow  him  to  have  
intercourse  with  her.  He  died  with  this  unfulfilled  craving.  This  
overwhelming  yearning  for  her  kept  him  floating  in  the  etheric  
world  from  where  he  began  harassing  her.  The  girl  was  going  
mad.  Each  night  before  she  would  go  to  bed  he  would  semi-
hypnotize  her  and  induce  her  to  keep  the  window  of  her  room  
open.  He  would  then  enter  inside  a  bat  and  would  come  to  her.  
"Hie  bat  would  wedge  on her  neck  and  draw blood  and etheric.' 
'Why  blood  and  etheric?'  I  asked.  
'An  individual  in  such  a  state  needs etheric matter  in  order  to  
sustain  himself  there.  The  girl  was  losing  a  lot  of  blood  and  
became  extremely  weak.   Her  parents   brought  her  to  me   in   
despair.  "Daskale,"  they  implored  me,  "our  daughter  is  dying  
and  the  doctors  cannot  help  us.  Look  at  her  and  see  how  weak  
she  is."  I  noticed  that  although  it was  high  summer  she  had  her  
neck  covered.  When  I  inquired  about  it  she  mentioned  that  it  
was  due  to  some  pimples  that  appeared  there.  I  asked  her to  let  
me  look  at  them.  She  opened  her  collar  and  I  saw  clearly  the  
teeth  of the  bat  in  twos,  right  at  the  spots  of her  arteries.  It  was  
the   first   time   that   I   had    encountered   such   a   case   and,   
inexperienced  as  I  was,  I  sought  help  from  Father  Dominico  
who  lived  on  the  other  side.  He  explained  to  me  that  the  dead  
man,  by  using the bat,  lived  more intensely in  the  etheric world. 
Father  Dominico  instructed  me  on  how  to  treat  such  a  case.  
"Stay in  their home  for awhile,"  he  said.  "The  girl  will wake up 
at    night  to  open  the  window.  Have  a  brasier with  burningcoals  
in   it  in  the  next  room.  When  the  bat  arrives  grab  a  broom,  
enter  into  her  bedroom  and  then  shut  the  window.  Be  careful  
because  the  bat  will  attack  you.  Hit  it     with  the  broom  to  make  
it   dizzy.  Then  wrap  it  in  a  towel.  You  should  then  go  to  the  
next  room  and  throw  the  bat  inside  the  brasier.  Shut  the  bat  
inside  and  let  it     burn."  '  Daskalos  leaned  back  in  his  chair  and  
continued. 

162 
TALES  OF  POSSESSION  
'Well,   this   is   exactly  what   happened.   When   I  closed   the   
window  the  bat  attacked  me.  At  that  moment  the  girl  woke  up  
and  assaulted  me.  Her  father,  who  was  present,  grabbed  his  
daughter  and  held  her  tight.  She  was  groaning  and  screaming  
hysterically  while  the  bat  was  dying.  Then  she  calmed  down  
and  became  serene.  "What  are  you  doing  to  me?"  she  asked.  
"Were  you  trying  to  burn  me?"  I  advised her  parents  to  bring  a  
priest  in  order  to  bless  the  house.'  
'What  happened  to  the  fiance?'  I  inquired.  
'We  helped  him  disentangle  himself  from  the  etheric  worlds  
so    that  he  could  go  higher.  Do  you  understand  now  what  it  
means  when  someone  gets  trapped  in  the  etheric  world?'  
I  had  hardly  finished  writing  Daskalos'  last  comments  when  
he  began  to  narrate  another  similar  case.  
'Thirty  years  ago  1  was  on  a  journey  to  the  Peloponnese  in  
southern  Greece.  I  spent  a  few  days  in  a  town  where  there  was  
a  girl  suffering  from   a  serious  psychological  problem.   I  was  
asked  whether  I  could  help.  She  was  about  twenty-five  years  
old  and  single.  A  shepherd,  twenty-five  years  older  than  the  
girl,   fell   in   love   with   her   and   asked   her   parents   for   their   
daughter's  hand.  They  refused.  The  shepherd,  Loizos  was  his  
name,  died  in   an  auto  accident.   Five  years   passed  after  his  
death  and  nothing  happened.  But  one  day  this  girl  claimed  that  
while   she   was   looking   after   her   two   goats   she   saw   Loizos   
calling  her.   Frightened   she   began   running  to  her  house.   He   
followed  her.  "You  are  dead.  What  do  you  want  from  me?"  
While  saying  this  she  started  feeling  very  sleepy  and  sat  under  
an  olive  tree.  He  hypnotized  her.  The  girl  confided  to  me  that  
under  that  olive  tree  she  experienced  for  the  first  time  sexual  
pleasure.  When  examined  she  was  found  a  virgin.  Three  days  
after  this  incident  the  dead  man  visited  her  at  home.  He  came  
at    night  through  the  walls.  She  got  used  to  him  making  love  to  
her.  When  she  was  examined  once  more,  she  was  no  longer  a  
virgin.   The    doctor,    however,    insisted    that    she    was    not    
deflowered  by  a  penis  but  by  her  fingers.  I.    noticed  that  on  her  
neck  there  were  two  reddish  spots.  I  asked  about  them.  "He  
kisses  me  there  but  his  kisses  are  strange.  They  are  like  sucking  
and  I  like  them,"  she  replied.  
'I   spent  the  night  with  them.  He  did  not  appear.  Nor  did  he  
on  the  second  night.  But  late  in  the  afternoon  of  the  third  day  I  

163 TALES OF POSSESSION 
saw  him  coming  from  the  orchard.  When  he  entered  the  house  
and  noticed  me,  he  behaved  as  if  he  had  known  me  for  years.  
"Hey,  friend Loizo,"  I  said,  "are  you  aware  of  your  situation?"  
He  explained  that  he  had  craved  the  girl  for  many  years  and  
that  he  had  never  experienced  sexual  relations  with  a  woman  
before.  The  only  sexual  relations  he  had  were  with  animals  like  
donkeys,  shegoats,  and  even  with  chickens  which  died  after  the  
act.  Now  that  she  had  become  his  he  wanted  her  and  was  not  
about  to  let  her  go.  I  tried  to  explain  to  him  that  he  was  not  
alive  like  the  rest  of  us.  He  could  not  understand.  "What  are  
you  talking about,  mister?"  he  protested.  "Here  I  am  talking  to  
your  I  fuck,  and  you  are  telling  me  I  am  not  alive?"  
'Exorcism  could  not  work  on  him  because  he  was  not  afraid  
of    the  Cross.   He  was,   let  us  say,   an   immoral   believer.   He   
accepted  Jesus.  Therefore,   it  was  necessary  to  persuade  him  
with   logical   arguments   that   he   had   to   leave.   Fortunately   I   
succeeded.   "I  am  leaving,"  he  promised  me,  "and  I  will  not  
return.   But   I   do   not   want   to   die."   "Should   you   continue   
bothering  this  girl  you  will  remain  in  this  narcotized  state  like  a  
vampire,"  I  warned  him.  He  turned  around  and  walked  away.  
The  dogs  in  the  yard  felt  him  and  began  barking.  When  the  
priest  and  the  doctor  asked  me about what  happened,  I  avoided  
telling  them  the  truth  because  I  assumed  they were  not  likely  to  
believe  me  anyway.  I  mentioned  that  the  girl  was  under  the  
influence  of  illusions  and  that  through  psychoanalysis  I  helped  
her overcome  her problem.  At  night the  doctor  gave  a  lecture  to  
the  villagers,  sitting  in  the  coffeehouse,  on  psychoanalysis.  He  
spoke  about  Freud,  the  unconscious,   and  so  on.  I  was  in  a  
corner  listening  and  laughing  to  myself.'  And  Daskalos  roared  
with  laughter  as  he  recollected  the  incident  with  the  doctor.  
'I   left  the  following  day.'  As  if  he  anticipated  what  I  was  
about  to  ask,  Daskalos  continued.  'I    never  found  out  whether  it  
was  the  dead  shepherd  who  deflowered  the  girl  or  whether  he  
made  her  break  the  hymen  with  her  fingers.  
'People  get  possessed  by  elementals  which  they  themselves  
create  as  a  result  of  their  weaknesses.  Only  in  rare  cases  do  I  
encounter  possession  by  beings  who  reside  in  the  etheric world. 
For  example  many  young  men  in  Cyprus  end  up  in  the  asylum  
after  creating  powerful  elementals  from  obsessive  masturbation  
over  the  image  of  a  woman.  Such  an  elemental  sucks  from  the  

164 
TALES  OF  POSSESSION  
etheric  of  the  individual  in  order  to  prolong  its  life  within  the  
etheric  counterpart  of  the  gross  material  world.  This  may  lead  
to   insanity.  The  "sucking of  blood"  of  the  so-called  vampires  is  
in   reality  etheric  matter.  The  same  situation  occurs  more  rarely  
when   human   entities   behave  as   if  they  were  vampires.   One   
should  not  be  hostile  and  narrow-minded  with  these  beings.  
Even   in   cases   of   demonic   elementals,   one   should   also   be   
tolerant.  Demons  also  know  how  to  love.'  
I  pointed  out  that  I  found  Daskalos'  last  remark  incompre-
hensible  and  I  asked  for  clarification.  In  his  customary  manner  
he  proceeded  to  answer  my  query  by  narrating  another  yarn.  
'After  the  civil  war  in  Lebanon,  when  many  refugees  came  
to   Cyprus,  there  emerged  an  epidemic  of  black  sorcery.  Among  
the  refugees  there  were  several  powerful  sorcerers  who  made  
their  living  by  offering  their  services.  These  black  magicians  
posed  a  formidable  challenge  to  us.  My  concern  was  that  they  
were  training  local  people  in  the  secrets  of  their  craft.  
'One  such  sorcerer  was  asked  to  kill  a  young  couple  for  the  
price   of  three  hundred  pounds.   He   knew  how  to  carry  out  
invocations   of   satanic   powers   and   succeeded   in   trapping   a   
demon  inside  a  bottle.  He  used  rubber  from  a  tire  to  carve  the  
image  of  the  demon.  He  then  managed  to  place  the  bottle  with  
this   demon-elemental   under   the   mattress   of   the   newlywed   
couple.  On  their  wedding  night  both  of  them  began  to  bleed  
from  their  ears  and  noses.  They  began  to  lose  their  strength.  
They   came   to   see   me   but   I   was   in   Paphos   that   day   with   
Theophanis.  They  left  and  returned  the  following  day.  Still  I  
had  not  come  back.  Meanwhile  I  cut  short  my  visit  to  Paphos  
because  I  felt  somebody  needing  me  desperately.  I  was  back  on  
the  fifth  day  and  found  both  of  them  sitting  at  my  doorstep  
waiting.  They  held  handkerchieves  in  front  of  their  mouths  to  
hide  the  bleeding.   I   knew  what  happened  right  away.   They   
were  both  exhausted  and  showed  me  the  bottle  with  the  demon  
which  they  discovered  under  their  bed.  I  immediately  cut  off  
the  connection  between  the  demon  and  this  young  couple  and  
they  both  breathed  with  relief.  The  bleeding  stopped  and  they  
could  now  lead  a  normal  life.  
'I   deliberately  kept  the  demon  inside  the  bottle  and  waited  
for  Iacovos  and  Theophanis  to  arrive  so  that  we  might  discuss  
the  matter  and  decide  what  to  do.  When  they  arrived  I  showed  

165 TALES OF POSSESSION 
them  the  bottle  and  related  the  incident.  I  explained  that  my  
plan  was  to  try  to  put  him  inside the Sanctum.  As  an emanation 
of    Lucifer,   the  demon  could  not  tolerate  the  Cross  and  the  
holiness  of  the  altar.  Therefore,  as  I  tried  to  force  him  into  the  
Sanctum,   he  broke  his  bonds   and   got  away.   There  was   an   
explosion  like  a  small  bomb.'  
'I    also   heard  this  explosion,'   Iacovos   added,   it  was  very  
loud.' 
i  reassured  both  Theophanis  and  Iacovos  that  they  should  
not  worry  and  that  the  demon  could  do  no  further  harm.  He  
had   escaped   but   I   could   bring   him   back   any   time.   I   was   
protected  by  Yohannan.  Even  if    the  demon  were  to  attack  me,  I  
would experience  some  pains  for  a  few  days  and  nothing more. 
When  Iacovos  and  Theophanis  left,  I  became  engrossed  with  
other  cases  and  forgot  the  episode  with  the  demon.  But  he  did  
not  forget.  The  demon  came  back  on  his  own.  "Holy  Virgin!  
You   are   so   ugly.   Why   do   you   keep   pestering  people?"   He   
replied,  "Because  I  get  great  pleasure  from  it.  I  love  people."  
He  appeared  to  me  like  a  mythological  satyr.  His  color  was  
dark  green.  His  eyes  were  red  and  he  had  protrusions  on  his  
forehead  that  looked  like  horns.  He  gazed  into  my  eyes  and  
said,  "I  could  have  harmed  you  had  I  so  wished.  If  I  did  not  it  
is   because  I  love  you."  "You  really  oblige  me,"  I  said.'  And  
Daskalos  burst  with  laughter  as  he  was  reporting  his  dialogue  
with  the  demon.  
'  "I  love  you, too,"  I  said,  "but  you  must promise  me that no 
matter  how  intensely  they  invoke  you,  you  shall  never  do  any  
harm  to  anybody  ever  again."  He  gave  me  his  word.  After  that  
I  encountered  him  seven  times.  I  noticed  that  he  was  gradually  
becoming  less  ugly  and  the  protrusions  on  his  forehead  began  
to   recede.  He  acquired  a  more  tolerable  appearance.  I  invited  
him  to  enter  with  me  into  the  Sanctum  so  that  he  could  get  
used  to  the  holiness  of  the  place.  One  day  during  a  meeting  I  
had  in the Stoa  with  the members  of the  inner circle I  felt him in 
the    Sanctum.    He    entered    with    courage.    "Come,    I    have    
something  to  offer  you,"  he  said.  I  excused  myself  from  the  
other  brothers   and   rushed  to  the  Sanctum.   As   I  entered  he  
materialized  an  image  of  himself  in  the  form  of  a  small  statue  
of    baked  clay.  When  1  took  it  in  my  hands  it  was  very  hot.'  
'The   change   from   one   dimension   to   another,'    Iacovos    

166 
TALES  OF  POSSESSION  
explained,  'always  generates  heat.'  
'Using  a  towel,  I  took  the  statue,'  Daskalos  went  on,  'and  
brought  it  to  brother  Theophanis.  One  of  my  students  was  so  
frightened,'  Daskalos  said  laughing,  'that  he  refused  to  come  
near  it.  Some  of  the  other  brothers  only  touched  it.  I  then  took  
it   back  to  the  Sanctum  and  covered  it  with  a  black  cloth.'  
'Why  the  black  cloth?'  I  interrupted.  
'So  that  the  statue  would  not  dematerialize.  When  something  
dematerializes  it  gives  away  energy.  The  black  color  does  not  
give  away  energy.   It  only  absorbs  it.  I  wanted  to  keep  that  
statue  for  awhile  in  that  state.  
'As  I  walked  into  the  Sanctum  I  saw  the  demon  sitting  cross-
legged  focusing  his  gaze  on  the  Cross.  He  sat  at  the  very  spot  
where  I  found  the  statue.  He  was  with  his  etheric  body.  "I  did  
what  you  expected  of  me,"  he  said  to  me,  "but  it  was  a  hard  
fight.  It  was  painful.  I  love  you."  
'I   felt  that he  loved  me  like  a  faithful  dog  loves  his  master.  It  
was  not  human  love.  A  few  days  later  I  destroyed  the  statue.'  
i  wish  I  had  taken  a  picture  of  it,'  Iacovos  muttered.  
'What  are  you  talking  about!'  Daskalos  said  severely.  'To  
take  a  picture  of  him  is  to  prolong  his  existence  in  that  state.  I  
had  to  destroy  the  statue  so  that  he  would  not  be  able  to  use  it  
and  become  fixated  in  that  condition.  Now  I  see  him  often.  He  
has  become  quite  good.'  
Suddenly   Daskalos   turned   abruptly   towards   Iacovos   and   
gave  him  a  cryptic  signal.  The  latter  responded  with  a  similar  
excitement.  1  had  no  idea  what  was  going  on.  Iacovos  began  to  
giggle.  I  nervously  demanded  that  they  let  me  know  what  was  
happening  between  them.  
'He  is  sitting  next  to  you,'  Daskalos  said  slowly  and  with  a  
wide  smile  on  his  face.  
'Who  is  sitting  next  to  me?'  I  asked  with  alarm  as  I  turned  
around  and  saw  nobody.  
'The  demon,'  Daskalos  said  softly.  'He  just  entered the  room  
and  sat  next  to  you.'  
I  felt  butterflies  at  this  unexpected  turn  of  events.  I  became  
conscious  that  I  was  sweating  heavily  but  I  tried  to  reassure  
myself  that  my  misery  was  from  the  high  temperatures  rather  
than  from  any  fear  of  demonic  powers.  I  found  refuge  in  my  
scientific  composure  and  detachment  and  kept  furiously  noting  

167 TALES OF POSSESSION 
down  what  Daskalos  was  saying.  Deep  down  I  felt  uneasy  as  
well  as  intrigued.  
'He  even  has  a  charming  smile,'  Iacovos  added  laughing.  
'I   hope  I  will  be  able  to  turn  him  into  a  benevolent  spirit,'  
Daskalos  went on.  'He  can no  longer do  any  harm.  I  asked  him  
to  adopt  a  name.  He  wants  to  be  called  Baalbook  which  in  
Assyrian   language   means   "the   purified   from   God."   "Baal"   
means  God  and  "Book"  means  someone  who  is  being  purified.  
I   hope   that   some   day   he   will   become   dissolved   into   the   
Absolute. Just as humans evolve, so do evil spirits. Consequently, 
one   of   our   activities   as   Researchers   of   Truth   is   to   be   of   
assistance  in  all  the  realms  of  Creation.  When  this  demon  will  
evolve  he  will  carry  along  with  him  many  others  of  his  kind  
towards  holiness.   He   is   still  unable  to  differentiate  between  
good  and  evil.  He  does  no  evil  only  because  he  wants  to  please  
me.  I  strictly  forbade  him  to  materialize  himself  or  materialize  
objects.  He  promised  not  to.  I  also  forbade  him  to  descend  into  
the  vibrations  of  fire  because  he  has  the  power  to  start  one.  I  
encouraged   him   to   have   as   much   contact   with   water   as   
possible.  He  considers  human  sex  as  a  game  between  children.  
His  intelligence  is  very  low.  He  can  evolve,  not  in  terms  of  
human knowledge,  but in  habits  and  instincts.  I don't think  it     is  
possible  to  do  much  more  with  him.  Let  him  become  dissolved  
within  an  archangel  of  a  particular  species.  He  already  guards  
my  flowers  and  assists  animals  like  cats,  dogs,  and  rabbits  to  
give  birth.  Some  time  ago  he  said  to  me,  "Should  I  strike  those  
who  bother  your  flowers?"  "You  do  nothing  of  the  kind,"  I  
ordered  him.  
'One  day  when  you  cut  some  flowers,'  Daskalos  addressed  
Iacovos,  'he  came  to  me  and  said,  "Why  did  he  have  to  cut  
them?"  He  has  speech  but  no  intelligence.  He  has  great  powers  
but  he   is   unaware   of  them.   Humans   are:  afraid  of   demons   
because  they  are  invisible.  Had  they  not  been  so,  men  would  
have  exploited  them  like  other  animals.  This  demon  has  no  tail  
and  he  is  very  ugly.  He  is  fat,  short  and  has  similarities  with  
pigs.  The  time  will  come  when  he  will  dissolve  within  the  Holy  
Spirit.  Demons  acquire  the  shape  of  human  beings  because  they  
adapt  themselves  to  whatever  they see.  They  are  the  chameleons  
of    forms.  I  have  so  much  more  to  learn  about  them,'  Daskalos  
concluded. 

168 
TALES  OF  POSSESSION  
i  find  the  notion  of  demons  evolving  into  the  Holy  Spirit  
quite  consistent  and  in  harmony  with  the  view  that  only  God  
exists,'  I  commented.  
'Exactly.  Had  demons  not  evolved,  it     would  have  meant  that  
there  is  evil  inside  the  Absolute.  This  demon  told  me  once,  
"You  know  you  are  not  as  handsome  as  I am."  Another  day  he  
narcotized   a   snake.   I   ordered   him   to  wake  it   up.   He   just   
laughed.   He   cannot   differentiate   my   moods,   whether   I   am   
angry  or  whether  I  am  not.  He  perceives  all  of  us  as  being  part  
of    the  animal  kingdom.   Demons  have  no  genitals.  They  are  
usually  dark  and  sometimes  even  handsome.  Do  you  know  how  
he    calls    Iacovos?    "The    dark-complexioned    beloved   one."   
"What  does   he  look  like?"   I   asked  the  demon.   He  replied,  
"Like  a  worm  that  crawls  on  a  leaf,"  '  and  Daskalos  chuckled.  
Responding   to   my   question   on    the   difference   between   
demons  and  angels  Daskalos  went  on  to  say  that  they  are  both  
emanations  of  archangelic  forces.  In  themselves  neither  demons  
nor  angels  are  eternal  beings.  They  are  the  elementals  of  the  
archangelic  force  which  projects  them.  Humans  are  capable  of  
creating  both  demonic  and  angelic  elementals.  
'Demons  are  archangelic  emanations  in  the  opposite  side  of  
existence    in    order   to    create    the    realms    of    separateness.    
Archangel  Lucifer  in  the  noetic  world  is  no  different  than  all  
the  other  archangelic  systems.  But  his  work  down  here  is  to  
create  the  opposite  side  of  energy  and  power  in  order  to  bring  
the  balance.  I  believe  this  must  be  part  of  the  Divine  Plan.  It  is  
that  which  we  call  Evil.  The  purpose  of  this  Evil  is  to  create for 
us  more  sharply  the  meaning  of  the  Good.'  
'How,'  I  asked,  'are  demons  different  from  the  elementals  
that  men  create  daily?'  
'The  elementals  that  human  beings  create  are  either  angelic  
or    demonic.  Man  is  allowed  to  create  both  kinds.  An  arch-
angel,  on  the  other  hand,  can  create  only  angelic  elementals,  
with  the  exception  of  Lucifer  who  can  only  emanate  demons.  
'Demons,' said Daskalos,  'possess  a  form  of subconsciousness 
that  enables  them  to  converse  with  humans.  I  am  telling  you,'  
he  continued,  'you  may  reason  with  a  demon  but  not  with  an  
angel  because  an  angel  is  an  unshakable  law.  An  angel  cannot  
deviate  from   his   divine  purpose.   But,   although   a   demon   is   
something  analogous  to  the  angel,  he  opposes  the  work  of  the  

169 TALES OF POSSESSION 
angel  and  can  influence  man.  Once  a  demon  attaches  himself  to  
a  human  being,  he  acts  along  with  him,  using  the  logic  of  man  
regardless  of  the  fact  that  it  may  be  a  form  of  unreason.  An  
angel   cannot   do   that.   He   works   monolithically   within   the   
realms  of Creation.  Do  you  understand  now what is happening? 
An  angel  has  no  choice  but  to  do  good.  A  demon  cooperates  
with  man  and  therefore  absorbs  part  of  his  experience,  like  the  
ability   to   logicalize.   The   angel   expresses   the   love   of   his   
archangel  uncolored.  A  demon  expresses  within  the  realm  of  
separateness  the  love  of  his  own  archangel  which  is  sentimen-
tality.  It  is  very  similar  to  human  sentimentality.  That  is  why  a  
demon  can  more  easily  get  attached  to  a  human  than  an  angel.  
The  only  work  of  the  angel  in  the  plant  and  animal  kingdom  
and  in   man  is  to  create  blindly  and  beautifully  through  the  
Holy  Spirit  cells  and  tissues  and  to  assist  in  cures.  The  demon  
on  the  other  hand  does  everything  that  man  does.  He  lives  fully  
with  man's  sentiments.'  
'So,'  I  said,  'a  demon  is  much  more  human  than  an  angel.'  
'Of  course.  You  rarely  see  an  angel  assume  a  human  form.  
They  remain  most  of  the  time  as  powers,  as  a  system.  A  demon  
takes  up  human  form.'  
'Therefore,'   I   said,   'in   cases   of   schizophrenia   and   other   
mental  disturbances  it  is  usually  the  work  of  Lucifer.'  
'Precisely.  Cure,  on  the  other  hand,  is  the  work  of  the  angel.  
There  is  something  else.  Angels  and  demons  are  not  in  conflict.  
They  appear  to  be  so  in  human  consciousness.  I  have  noticed  
this  but  it  is  too  bold  to  make  such  a  statement  openly.  In  
Nature  you  do  not  see  demons  and  angels  fighting one  another.  
They  cooperate.'  
'I   have  noticed  the  same  thing,'  Iacovos  said  thoughtfully,  
'they  work  together.'  
'I   suppose,'  I  added,  'had  it  been  otherwise,  it  would  have  
implied  that  there  are  two  Gods,  one  good  and  one  evil.'  
'Right,'  Daskalos   replied.  'However,  I  have  observed  that  
they   take   different  positions   within  the   subconscious  of   the   
individual  in  order  to  make  possible  for  us  the  meaning of  good  
and  evil.'  
Our  discussion  on  demonology  went  on  for  some  time.  I  
almost  forgot  that  what  triggered  it  was  our  uninvited  guest,  
the  little satan  sitting  at  my  right side.  I  presumed  he  must  have  

170 TALES  OF  POSSESSION  
felt  good  with  all  the  attention  he  had  attracted.  
iacovo,'  Daskalos  said  suddenly,  'why  do  you  suppose  our  
little  visitor  is  examining  your  toe?  Do  you  think  he  is  planning  
to   imitate  your  leg?'  
I  never  did  find  out  whether  Daskalos  was  serious,  with  that  
last  remark,  or  whether  he  was  joking.  But  I  felt  somewhat  
relieved  that  his  sentimental  friend  left  my  side  and  moved  on  
to   examine  Iacovos'  feet!  

12 
Healing 
My   relationship   with   Daskalos  was   beginning  to  be  known  
among  friends  and  relatives  in  spite  of  my  efforts  to  maintain  a  
certain   amount   of   secrecy   about   it.   However,   the   growing   
awareness  on  the  part  of  an  expanding  circle  of  people  on  the  
nature  of  my  research  had  an  unexpected  positive  effect.  One  
such  outcome  was  the  role  in  which  I  was  increasingly  cast  to  
act  as  liaison  between  Daskalos  and  persons  who  sought  his  
services.  I  had  played  that  role  so  often  that  I  was  beginning  to  
accept   it  as  part  of  my  routine  activities   in   Cyprus.   I  must  
confess  I  fully  enjoyed  it.  Without  others  knowing  what  I  was  
doing,   perhaps   my  research  itself  might  have  suffered,  since  
some  of  the  most  important  occurrences  that  I  witnessed  might  
not  have  taken  place.  
One   such   case   was   the   healing   of   a   woman   who   was   
suffering   from   her   spine   and   was   completely   paralysed   for   
several  weeks.  It  was  in May  of  1981  that  this  event took place. 
I   had   just   returned   to   the   island   after   a   two-year   absence,   
during which  time  I  was  trying,  as  much  as  my  academic  duties  
permitted,  to  work  on  my  field  notes.  As  in  earlier  instances,  I  
was   contacted   by   a   friend   who   asked   me  whether   I   could   
approach  Daskalos  and  inquire  whether  or  not  he  would  be  
willing to  visit this  patient  in  her home.  I  was  told  that it    would  
be  very  difficult  to  bring her  to  his  place  as  she had  to  lie  in  bed  
continuously.  Moving  about  caused  her  excruciating  pain.  The  
patient  had  previously  visited  all  the  leading  doctors  on  the  
island  and  found  no  relief.  In  addition,  she  had  spent  some  time  
at     an   Israeli   hospital   but   to   no   avail.   Her   spinal   problems   
worsened.  It  was  at that  desperate  point  that  Daskalos'  services  
were  sought.  
When  I  telephoned  Daskalos  he expressed  a  readiness  to  visit  
the  woman  that  very  day.  Without  delay  I  drove  to  Strovolos,  
along  with  the  patient's  daughter-in-law.  We  picked  Daskalos  
171 

172 
HEALING 
up  and  in  fifteen  minutes  arrived  at  the  patient's  home.  It was  a  
pleasant   house,   with   a   yard   and   the   usual   vegetation   that   
abounds  in  Cyprus,  jasmine,  rose  bushes  of  all  colors,  lemon  
trees  and  a  large  shady  grapevine.  It  appeared  that  the  family  
was  well  off.  I  learned  later  that  the  patient's  husband  was  a  
successful  businessman,  an  importer  of  electronics  equipment.  
There  were  a  couple  of  women  relatives  in  the  house,  and  
the  patient's   son  who  was  on  a  visit  to  the  island.  He  was  
studying  at  a  New  England  university.  Daskalos  seemed  to  be  
in    a   jovial   mood,   as   he   so   often  was,   in   spite   of  his   own   
personal  problems.  Just   before  we   entered  the   bedroom,   he   
stood  for  a  few  seconds  gazing  at  a  painting  hanging  on  the  
wall  outside  the  patient's  room.  It  was  a  reprint  of  El  Greco's  
Saint Jerome.  Daskalos  identified  the  painting  and  expressed  his  
admiration.  He  then  entered  the  bedroom.  The  woman  seemed  
to   be  in  her fifties  and  distinguished  looking.  I learned later that 
she  spoke  fluent  French  and  English.  
'What  is  the  matter  with  you?'  Daskalos  exclaimed  feigning  
surprise.   His  playful  tone  'broke  the  ice'  right  away  and  the  
woman,  with  a  smile  on  her  face,  said  that  her  vertebrae  were  
constantly  moving  from  their  place  and  the  doctors  could  not  
do  anything  to  help  her.  We  were  told  that  she  had  undergone  
very   painful   treatments   in   both   Cyprus   and   Israel   where   
doctors   would   literally   twist   her   spine   in   order   to   put   the   
vertebrae   back   into   place.   Her   situation,   however,   did   not   
improve.   In  fact  it  got  worse.   We  were  told  that  a  famous  
specialist  in  Israel  had  advised  her  that  she  had  to  learn  to  live  
with  her  pains  as  her case  was  incurable.  It was  the  same  advice  
she  had  heard  from  the  local  doctors.  
Without    hesitation    and    without    any    further    questions    
Daskalos  asked  the  two  women  who  were  present  to  turn  her  
around  and  undress  her  from  the  waist  up.  I  was  standing  near  
the  door  determined  to  witness  the  entire  operation  as  closely  
as    I  could.  Daskalos  then  placed  his  hands  on  the  woman's  
back  and  began  stroking  and  softly  massaging  her  spine.  
'Don't  tighten up,'  he  commanded,  'just  relax.  It won't hurt.' 
While  he  was  passing  his  hands  up  and  down  the  woman's  
spine  Daskalos  looked  at  us  and  began  offering  his  diagnosis  of  
the  problem.  
it   is  serious,'  he  said.  'Her  whole  spine  is  out  of  place.  Her  

HEALING 
173 
vertebrae   are   completely   disjointed   and   there   is   a   lot   of   
porosity.'  He  said  he  was  going  to  make  the  bones  soft  and  
malleable  so  that  he  could  put  them  back  in  their  right  place  
and  then  resolidify  them.  
'Come  and  see,'  he  said,  after  a  few  minutes  of  continued  
stroking.  'Her  bones  are  now  completely  soft.  Come  and  test  
them  with  your  own  hands.'  The  two  women  who  were  next  to  
Daskalos,    including    the    patient's    daughter-in-law,    moved    
forward  and  pressed  their  fingers  on  her  spine.  Regretfully  I  
declined  to  do  likewise  as  I  had  never  met  the  woman  before  
and  felt  somewhat  embarrassed  at  the  thought  of  pushing  my  
fingers  on  her  bare  back.  But  I  noticed  the  astonishment  in  the  
faces   of   the  others   who   had   taken   up   Daskalos'   invitation.   
Later  they  told  me  that  her  bones  felt  like  a  sponge.  
'Now,'  Daskalos  announced,  as  if  giving  instructions  to  a  
group  of  interns  in  the  operating  room,  '1  will  put  the  bones  in  
their    proper    places    and    resolidify    them.    I    have    already    
dematerialized  the  crystals.'  With  a  few  more  minutes  of  gentle  
stroking,  his  treatment  ended.  The  entire  procedure  had  taken  
about  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.  
'You  are  fine  now,'  he  said  to  the  woman,  fully  confident  of  
what  he  had  done.  'Turn  around  and  get  out  of  bed.  You  are  
completely  cured.  Your  spine  is  straight  and  all  the  vertebrae  
are  in  their  proper  places.'  
To  the  amazement  of  everyone  present,  the  patient  got out  of  
bed  and  began  walking  without  any  help  and  without  any pain. 
Her  face  lit  up  with  excitement.  
'Now,'  Daskalos  continued,  'bend  down  a  few  times.'  She  
followed   his   instructions   with   great   ease   and   without   any   
apparent  discomfort.  She  looked  ecstatic,  stretched  her  elbows,  
and  sighed  with  relief.  The  atmosphere  in  the  bedroom  was  
euphoric. Daskalos looked pleased but not particularly impressed 
with  his  accomplishment.  He  took  it  matter-of-factly,  just  like  
an  obstetrician  after  a  successful  delivery,  a  routine  matter.  
The  patient  was  now  walking  about  freely  and  offered  to  
make  us  coffee.  We  accepted  and  sat  in  the  living  room.  In  a  
few  minutes  the  coffee  was  ready  and  Daskalos,  in  between  
jokes,  drank  it  with  great  pleasure.  He  was  particularly  fond  of  
Turkish  coffee.  
Before  we  left,  Daskalos  instructed  Mrs  Katina,  the  patient,  

174 HEALING 
what  foods  to  avoid.  She  listened  attentively  while  he  gave  her  
a  lecture  on  proper  nutrition.  'You  should  also,'  he  said,  'get  
vitamin  B  complex  on  a  daily  basis.  And  you  must  do  simple  
exercises  like  bending  up  and  down  a  few  minutes  every  day.'  
As  we  were  getting  ready  to  leave,  Mrs  Katina  rushed  to  the  
back  of  the  house   and   in   a  few  moments  returned  holding  
El    Greco's  Saint  Jerome.  
'Please,'  she  said  to  Daskalos,  'accept  this  as  a  token  of  my  
appreciation  for  what  you  have  done.'  
'No,   no,'   Daskalos   said   emphatically,   waving   his   hands.   
'Thank  you  but  we  are  not  allowed  to  take  money  or  gifts.'  
'Please  take  it,'  Mrs  Katina  insisted,  and  tried  to  hand  over  
the  painting  to  Daskalos.  it  is  not  a  gift,  only  a  token  of  my  
appreciation.' 
'Daskale,'  I  said,  trying  to  rescue  Mrs  Katina  from  Daskalos'  
intransigence,  'the  lady  is  right.  You  should  consider  it  as  a  
token  and  nothing  more.  After  all  it  is  only  a  reprint.'  
Apparendy   my   intervention   worked.   Daskalos   shook   his   
head  and  reluctantly  took  the  painting.  But  seemingly  uncertain  
whether  he  did  the  right  thing,  he  murmured  to  himself  that  he  
was   not   supposed   to   accept   gifts.   Mrs   Katina,   meanwhile,   
beamed  with  pleasure.  
Later  on  that  day,  just  after  the  astonished  husband   and   
other  relatives  learned  of  the  'miracle,'  a  feast  was  held  that  
lasted  until  the  early  hours  of  the  morning.  In  the  meantime  
Mrs  Katina,  incredulous  herself  over  her  cure,  paid  a  visit  to  
her   radiologist   that   very   afternoon.   To   the   surprise   of   the   
doctor,  the  new  X-ray  plates  showed  marked  differences  from  
the  ones  taken  only  a  week  earlier.  The  new  X-rays  showed  a  
normal  spine.  
I  visited  Mrs  Katina  again  several  days  later.  She  appeared  to  
me  in  excellent  health,  without  any  trace  of  her  former  ailment.  
It  was hard  to  imagine  that this  woman  could not  even  sit  up  in  
bed prior to  Daskalos'  arrival.  Mrs  Katina  was  more  than  eager  
to   talk   to   me   in   detail   about   her   medical   history   and   her   
experience  with  Daskalos.  
'What  did  you  feel,'  I  asked,  'when  Daskalos  touched  you?'  
'I   felt  something  very  strange  along  my  spine,'  she  said,  it  
was  like  an  electrical  current,  like  little  ants  moving  up  and  
down  my  spine.  At  first  I  tightened  up  because,  having  in  mind  

HEALING 
175 
how  much  pain  I  had  suffered  before  with  the  twisting  of  my  
spine,  I  was  afraid  that  1  was  going  to  feel  the  same  way  again.  
When  Daskalos  noticed  my  fears  he  asked  me  to  let  myself  
loose.' 
I  was  curious  to find out  to  what  extent  Mrs  Katina  believed  
that  Daskalos  could  heal  her.  I  wanted  to  know  whether  the  
element  of  autosuggestion   played   any  role  in  her  miraculous  
recovery.  So  I  asked  her  whether  she  had  had  any  contact  with  
Daskalos  before.  
'Yes  I  did,'  she  said,  'many  years  ago.  I  went  to  him  when  
my  son,  who  at  the  time  was  two  years  old,  was  full  of  pimples  
all  over  his  body.  We  went  to  many  specialists,  we  followed  all  
kinds  of  diets,  we  had  all  kinds  of  analyses  done,  we  used  all  
kinds  of  ointments.  Nothing.  Until  a  friend  of  ours  took  us  to  
Daskalos.  As  soon  as  he  looked  at  my  son  he  said  to  me  that  
there  was  nothing  wrong  with  him.  He  said  the  child  was  just  
allergic  to  milk  and  the  sweets  he  eats.  Stop  them  both  he  said.'  
'Did  he  say  this  by  just  looking  at  the  child?'  I  asked.  
'Yes,  just  by  looking  at  him.  I  went  back  to  the  doctor  and  
told  him  about  it.  The  doctor  said,  "Why  don't  we  try  it  and  
we'll  see."  We  stopped  the  milk and sweets,  and in  four  days  all  
the  pimples  were  gone.  On  the  fifth  day  the  doctor  said,  "Let's  
give  him  milk  again  and  see  what  happens."  In  two  days  the  
pimples  returned.  Then  we  stopped  giving  him  milk  for  good  
and  the  pimples  disappeared.  
'I   went  once  more  to  Daskalos,'  she  continued,  'when  my  
mother  got  sick  with  leukemia.  We  were  not  even  aware  that  it  
was   leukemia.   She   had   had   it  for   a   long  time.   Her  spleen  
expanded  so  much  that  it     caused  a  kidney  to  fail.  They couldn't 
do  anything  for  her  here  in  Cyprus  because  in  those  times  there  
were  no  specialists  on  the  island.  The  doctors  advised  us  that  
we  should  send  her  either  to  Greece  or  to  England.  I  went  to  
Daskalos  after  my  mother  was  already  in  Greece.  He  said  to  me  
the  moment  he  touched  my  mother's  picture,  "Your  mother  
suffers  from  her  spleen.  It  is  her  spleen  that  creates  the  white  
blood  corpuscles."  He  told  me  not  to  worry.  Here  in  Cyprus  
the  doctors  had  given  us  no  hope.  They  found  that  the  white  
blood  corpuscles  were  187,000.  Normally  they  range  between  
8,000  to  10,000.  Daskalos   said,   "Your  mother  will  undergo  
therapy  in   Athens   and   she   will  come  back."   And  that  was  

176 
HEALING 
exactly  what  happened.  She  lived  eight  more  years.  She  then  
suffered   a   psychological   shock   when   my   brother-in-law   got   
sick.   Again  her  spleen  expanded  very  quickly.   We  took  her  
back  to  Greece  for  therapy  but  the  doctors  there  told  us  that  
nothing  could  be  done.  I  went  to  Daskalos  again.  He  said  to  
me,  "I  am  sorry.  I  believe  this  will  be  her end."  In  two  days  she  
died.  Whatever  he  told  us  came  to  be  true.'  
'So,'  I  said,   'when  Daskalos  came  here  that   day  did  you  
believe   that   he   had   the   power   to   cure   you?'   Mrs   Katina   
hesitated  for  a  moment  as  she  pondered  my  question.  
'Actually  I  can't  say  that  I  did  believe  completely  because  
when  they  mentioned  his  name  to  me,  1  assumed  that  he  was  
good  only  in  diagnosing  illnesses,  but  I  did  not  know  that  he  
was  also  a  healer.  So  I  said  to  myself,  "What do  I  have  to  lose?  
Let  us  try  and  see.  Why,  I  said  to  myself,  hadn't  I  thought  of  
him  before?"  '  
Mrs  Katina  brought  the X-ray  plates  and  we  examined  them  
together.  I  asked  her  whether  I  could  keep  them  for  a  few  days.  
She  was  so  confident  that  her  ordeal  was  over  that  she  even  let  
me  keep  them.  She  also  gave  me  all  the  medical  documents  in  
regard  to  her  illness.  I  promised  to  return  them  in  case  she  ever  
needed  them.  As  far  as  I  know,  Mrs  Katina  has  had  no  relapse  
of    her  problem.  The  last  time  I  saw  her  was  at  Daskalos'  one  
month  after  her  cure.  She  brought  a  friend  of  hers  who  also  
suffered  from  a  spinal  ailment.  Although  I  was  not  a  witness  to  
that  episode,  I  was  told  that  Daskalos  cured  her,  too.  She  was  
an    English    woman    who    was    unable    to    coordinate    her    
movements  and  could  not  walk  straight.  Again  doctors  had  not  
helped,  in  spite  of  several  operations.  
I  had  witnessed  earlier  a  similar  impressive  case  of  healing  
performed  on  a  seventy-year-old  woman.  The  doctors  gave  up  
on  her  as  in  the  case  of Mrs  Katina.  The  contact  with  Daskalos  
was  again  made  through  me.  As  the patient was unable  to  walk  
we  had  to  carry  her  in  our  arms.  After  her  cure  she  began  to  
move   about   freely   without   assistance.    Although    complete    
recovery,   Daskalos   stated,   was   impossible   because   of   her   
advanced  age,  80  percent  of  her  problem  was  gone.  From  an  
almost  total  paralysis  she  now  found  herself  able  even  to  go  
swimming  at  the  beach.  
Such   healing   phenomena,   although   well   documented,   are   

HEALING 177 
often   ignored  by   scientists.   There   seems   to   be  no  available  
scientific  theory  to  explain  them,  or  to  explain  them  away.  I  
began  to  realize  that  what  I  had  observed  in  Mrs  Katina's  case  
could  not  be  understood  within  the  existing  scientific  frame-
works.   For  example,   the   element  of   autosuggestion   did  not  
seem   to   be   a   powerful   and   determining  component   in   her   
sudden  recovery.  
Students   of   non-medical   healing   have   argued   that   such   
phenomena  could best  be  explained  as  a  form  of  suggestion  and  
autosuggestion,  operating within  a  common  cultural  framework  
of    understanding  and  belief  shared   by  the  therapist  and  his  
client.  Most  traditional  or  faith  healers  usually  operate  within  a  
supportive   cultural   environment   and   healing   ceremonies   are   
charged  with  high  drama  and  emotion.  Daskalos  acted  more  
like  a  maverick within  a  cultural  setting that  was  far from  being  
supportive  to  his  work  or  world  view.  Quite  often  the  patients  
themselves  would  hide  from  their  friends  and  relatives  their  
visits  to  the  'Magus  of Strovolos.'  Daskalos  once  complained  to  
me  that  sometimes  he  felt  as  if  he  were  plowing  on  a  barren  
rocky  terrain.  
From   my   point   of   view   the   case   of   Mrs   Katina   was   
exceptional,   not   only   because   of   the   circumstances   of   her   
sudden  recovery,  but  most  importantly  because  I  had  in  my  
possession  her  case  history  and  the  X-rays.  It  was  the  type  of  
empirical  evidence  that  could  undermine  even  the  most  devout  
skepticism.  I  thought  Mrs  Katina's  case  would  qualify  to  be  
classified   among  those   few   instances   that  Jerome  Frank,   an   
authority  on  non-medical  healing,  calls  'truly  miraculous.'  In  
his   Persuasion   and   Healing   he   argues   that   some   individuals   
seem  to  have  a  gift  of  healing  that  defies  scientific  explanation.  
He  goes  on  to  say  that  one  should  not  discount  the  possibility,  
as    the  evidence  is  ample,  that  some  healers  may  serve  as  a  kind  
of    conduit  for  a  healing  force  in  the  Universe  sometimes  called  
the  'life  force.'  For  lack  of  a  better  term,  he  proposes  that  it  
must  be  called  'supernatural.'  
I  met  Daskalos  the  day  after  I  had  the  encounter  with  Mrs  
Katina  during  one  of  his  regular  meetings  with  his  students.  
Coincidentally  the  topic  was  on  healing  and  the  role  of  the  
psychotherapist. 
'All  illnesses,'  Daskalos  began  after  he  conducted  the  short  

178 
HEALING 
prayer,  'are  the   result  of  psychonoetic  conditions.   You   may   
wonder  about  the  effects  of  viruses.  As  medical  science  shows,  
microorganisms  and  viruses  exist  in  abundant  supply  within  the  
body  of  every  human  being.  Why  then  are  some  of  us  more  
immune  to  these  organisms  whereas  others  are  so  vulnerable?  
The  etheric  energy  needed  to  keep  the  body  in  balance  drops  
considerably  when  we  vibrate  improperly.  A  certain  amount  of  
etheric  vibrations,  say  one  hundred,  is  required  for  the  Holy  
Spirit   to   create   the   cells,   tissues   and   various   organs   of   the   
material  body.  Our  etheric  energy  is  depleted  when  our  desires  
and   thoughts   are   such   that   create   in   us   the   vibrations   of   
anxiety,   depression,   stubbornness,   anger,   hatred   and   similar   
morbid  emotions.  Therefore,  we  may  only  have  eighty  or  sixty  
units  out  of  the  one  hundred  that  we  hypothetically  need  as  
etheric  vitality  to  keep  the  body  in  balance.  Automatically  we  
notice   that   the   most   sensitive   parts   of   our   body   begin   to   
manifest  the  lack  of  an  adequate  supply  of  vitality.  When  an  
individual   gets   sufficient   amounts   of   etheric   energy   through   
proper  nutrition,  breathing  and  way  of  living  his  personality  
should   enjoy   full   health.   The   aura   of   such   an   individual   
radiates  over  a  large  area  and  gets  absorbed  often  by  those  who  
need  it.  Such  individuals  benefit  from  the  mere  presence  of  a  
Researcher  of  Truth.  
'You  are  probably  aware  that  certain  people  generate  in  us  
positive   vibrations   whereas   others   may   generate   the   exact   
opposite.   The   joy   we   experience   in   the   presence   of   certain   
people  is  the  result  of  an  abundant  supply  of  etheric  vitality  
they  emanate.  Others  who  lack  in  vitality  draw  from  our  own  
reservoir  or  etheric  energy.  A  Researcher  of  Truth  who  wants  
to   be  of  service  must  keep  his  aura  clear  and  radiating.  Even  
when  he  feels  drained  by  a  fellow  human  being  who  absorbs  
from  his  vitality  he  should  not  reject  him.  These  are  the  people  
that  need  our  help  most.  
it   is  etheric  vitality  that  keeps  us  in  good  health  and  we  
must  be  ready  to  provide  it     for  those  in  need.  When  we  pray  to  
God  and  ask  for  "our  daily  bread"  in  reality  we  are  asking  for  
life-giving  ether.   It  is  not  bread  we  are  praying  for.  Etheric  
vitality  is  required  not  only  to  keep  the  material  body  in  good  
health   but  also  to  maintain  our  psychic  and  noetic  bodies.'  
There   was   a    moment's    pause   while   Daskalos   waited    in    

HEALING 179 
anticipation  of  questions  from  the  audience.  
'What    is    the    role    of    prayer,'    someone    asked,    'as    a    
preparation  for  therapy?'  
'I   am  not  underestimating  the  importance  of  prayer.  It  could  
be  a  method  of  self-concentration  in  order  for  the  therapist  to  
enter into  the  state  of  mind  which  will  permit him  to  be  of  help.  
As  for  myself  it  is  sufficient  to  think,  "Thy  Will  be  done ..." 
and  proceed  with  the  therapy.  However,  a  Researcher  of Truth 
must   pray   uninterruptedly.   His   every   thought   must   be   a   
continuous   thanksgiving   to   the   Absolute.   Every   one   of   his   
actions  must  be  an  expression  of  prayer.  This  is  what  Saint  Paul  
had   in   mind   when   he   admonished   that   we   should   "pray   
unceasingly."  The  psychotherapist,  Researcher  of  Truth,  must  
pray   unceasingly   through   his  actions,   thoughts   and  feelings.  
When  we  are  attuned  to  the  Divine  we  need  not  spend  time  in  
prayer  before  therapy.  Pay  attention.  Real  prayer  is  not  words.  
By  themselves  words  mean  nothing.  It  is  actions  and  readiness  
to   be  of  service  that  count.  When  we  promise  as  Researchers  of  
Truth  to  spend  a  few  minutes  each  night  in  self-analysis  is  this  
not  in  essence  a  form  of  prayer?  Our  self-analysis,  however,  
must   not   be   accompanied   by   masochistic   tendencies    and    
feelings  of  guilt.  The   moment  the   Researcher  of  Truth   feels   
guilty  and  sinful  he  is  in  no  position  to  help  others.  I  am  telling  
you  such  masochistic  tendencies  that  we  see  in  many  super-
stitiously  religious  persons  are  nothing  more  than  a  form  of  
mental  malady.   During  our  self-analysis  we  must  be  able  to  
identify  such  tendencies  and  eradicate  them.  We  must  use  our  
reason  and  fight  such  illusions  and  prejudices.  For  if  you  as  
present  personalities  do  not   reach  a  certain  state  of  balance  
within  life,  how  do  you  expect  to  help  a  troubled  fellow  human  
being  who  lives  in  a  chaos  of  despair  and  illusion?  Our work  as  
therapists   is   not   only   on   the   etheric-double  of   the   material   
body.  We  should  also  be  ready  to  alleviate  pain  that  exists  on  
the  psychonoetic  level.  
'Many   healers   assume   that   they   can   help   only   a   certain   
number   of   people   per   day.   They   believe   that   their   etheric   
energy  is  limited  and  could  be  depleted.  This  is  an  illusion.  
They  simply  create  through  autosuggestion  an  elemental  which  
obstructs  their  road  to  healing.  I  assure  you  the  more  people  
you  help,  the  more  you  fill  up  with  vitality,  assuming  that  you  

180 
HEALING 
have  love  in  your  heart.'  
Daskalos  went  on  to  say  that  a  clairvoyant  can  'see'  on  the  
aura  of  the  person  where  the  deficiency  in  vitality  exists.  Then  
with  appropriate  concentration  the  healer  can  fill  up  the  space  
on   the   etheric-double   of   the   patient   that   exemplifies   the   
deficiency.  He  stated  that  it     is  possible  for a  healer  to  see  such  a  
deficiency  on  the  etheric-double  of  the  patient  even  though  the  
problem  has  not  as  yet  manifested  itself  on  the  gross  material  
level.  Consequently  it  becomes  possible  to  foresee  and  prevent  
the  manifestation  of  a  physical  ailment.  A  problem  may  appear  
on  the  aura  of  a  prospective  patient  long  before  it  expresses  
itself   on   the   material   body.   Daskalos   then   recounted   an   
experience  he  had  with  a  sufi  who  was  on  a  visit  to  Cyprus  to  
see  him.  
'We  were  chatting  in  my  living  room  when  he  stopped  the  
conversation  and  mentioned  that  a  cat was  outside  in the  street.  
He  concentrated  and  with  his  thought  brought  the  cat  next  to  
my  doorstep.  Then  with  a  sudden  movement  of  his  head  he  
caused  the  cat  to   drop   dead.   I  protested  and   demanded  an  
explanation   of   why   he   had   killed   the   poor   animal.    He    
explained   that   on   the   aura   of  the  cat  he   saw   a   dangerous   
infectious  disease.  By  killing  it     he  prevented  the  spreading  of  an  
epidemic.  What  particularly  impressed  me  was  his  power  in  
foreseeing  the  evil  potential  resting  on  the  aura  of  the  cat.  The  
body  of  the  cat  itself  showed  no  signs  of  disease.  I  admired  this  
sufi.  We  learned  a  lot  from  each  other.'  
I   asked   Daskalos   whether   he   can   ascertain   in   advance   
whether  a  specific  case  is  amenable  to  cure  or  not.  I  asked  this  
question  because  I  was  particularly  impressed  with  his  healing  
successes.  I  wondered  whether  he  would  claim  that he  was  able  
to   foresee  whether  the  Karma  of  a  patient  would  permit  cure  
and   then   act   accordingly.   I   do   not   recall   any   case   when   
Daskalos  intervened  without  at  least  partial  success.  In  the  case  
of    Mrs  Katina,  for  example,   I  was   certain  that  he  knew  in  
advance  that  she  would  be  on  her  feet  that  very  morning.  On  
other  occasions  Daskalos  would  flady  state  that  the  case  was  
hopeless  but  that  he  would   still   try  anyway.   As   a   rule   his   
predictions  were  valid  in  both  instances.  
'You  must  always  bear  in  mind  that  every  feat  of  healing  
presupposes  coordination  with  the  Holy  Spirit.  We  are  simply  

HEALING 181 
the  conduit  of the  Divine  Plan.  Success  is  not  in  our  hands.  The  
Researcher  of  Truth  must,  therefore,  overcome  the  egotisdcal  
tendency  of  expecting  cure  whenever  he  lays  his  hands  on  a  
patient.  All  we  can  do  is  try  to  help  and  carry  on  with  our  
duties    and   responsibilities.    Occasionally   you    may   witness   
healing  phenomena  that  could  shake  you  out  of  your  wits.  By  
simply  laying  your  hand  on  a  wound,  for  example,  you  may  be  
able  to  speed  up  the  healing  process  and  cure  a  wound  in  a  
matter  of  moments.  It  is  possible,  however,  that  we  may  not  be  
allowed  to  accomplish  the  most  simple  form  of  cure.  To  have  a  
cure  is  more  natural  than  not to  have  one.  It  is  easier  to  succeed  
because  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Absolute  and  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  
When  cure  does  not  take  place  it  implies  that  there  is  a  karmic  
debt  that  cannot  be  overcome.'  
is   it  not  possible  to  know  right  from  the  beginning  whether  
Karma  will  permit  a  cure  and  then  act?'  I  probed  further.  
'No,  this  is  not  permissible.  As  I  have  already  explained,  the  
decision   as   to   whether   cure   will   take   place   is   beyond   our   
power.  We  as  therapists  should  always  be  ready  to  offer  our  
etheric  energy  to  help  someone  in  need.  By  our  mere  wish  to  be  
of    help  we  automatically  create  a  therapeutic  elemental  which  
remains  on  the  aura  of  the  patient.  He  may  not  perceive  any  
immediate  results  but  the  elemental  will  stay  on  his  aura.  The  
karmic  debt  may  be  overcome  at  any  moment  in  the  future.  
When  this  happens  the  elemental  will  be  activated  and  bring  
about  the  cure.  For  this  reason  no  matter  how  many  times  a  
patient  comes  to  you  for  help  you  must  never  refuse.  We  must  
be  willing  to  repeat  the  same  work  without  any  concern  as  to  
whether  therapy  will  take  place  or  not.  In  our  readiness  to  help  
the  person  we  provide  extra  etheric  energy  that  strengthens  the  
therapeutic  elemental   resting  on  his  aura.   At  no  time   did  a  
therapist  with  a  genuine  wish  to  help  another  human  being  fail  
to   do  so  physically  or  psychically.'  
'Skeptics  would  say  that  healing  is  possible  only  because  the  
patient  himself  believes  in  the  healer  and  that  cure  results  from  
powerful    suggestions    and    autosuggestions.    How    do    you    
confront  this  issue?'  I  asked  again.  
'They are right to a certain extent.  Suggestion and autosugges-
tion  are  often  the  necessary  conditions  that  can  lead  to  therapy.  
The  state  of  our  health  is  after  all  the  product  of  our  thoughts  

182 
HEALING 
and  emotions.  I  am  currently  faced  with  great  difficulties  trying  
to   help  a  policeman  suffering  from  polio  for  the  last  twenty-five  
years.    His    indulgence    in    fantasies    often    become   noxious   
autosuggestions  which  undermine  his  physical  well  being.  We  
meet  every  week  but  whatever  I  create  he  destroys  with  his  ill  
temper.  I  try  to  impress  upon  him  that  his  attitude  burns  his  
etheric  energy  and  prevents  his  cure.  He  doubts  whether  he  can  
recover   quickly.    The    doubt   acts    as    a    form    of    negative    
autosuggestion  that  retards  his  recovery.  
'Let  me  now  compare  his  case  to  that  of  an  illiterate  farmer.  
He  claimed  that  one  day  as  he  was  riding  his  tractor  he  was  
touched   by   something   evil.   As   a   result  of  this   self-induced   
negative suggestion he  became paralyzed. The doctors diagnosed 
his  problem  as  multiple  sclerosis.  Nonsense.  Whenever  they  fail  
to   find  the  real  cause  of  a  problem  they  cook  up  a  word  and  
leave   it   at   that.   For   three   years   this   man   remained   in   a   
wheelchair.  He  was  a  psychological  ruin.  He  had  five  children  
to   feed  and  his  brother,  who  took  over  his  tractor,  gave  him  
very  little  money.  Eventually  this  farmer  rebelled.  One  night  
while  he  was   asleep   his  subconscious  came  in   contact  with  
mine.  He  saw my  face and  a voice  in  the dream  urged  him to go 
to   the  "Magus  of  Strovolos"  who  could  cure  him.  I  remember  
it   was  one  o'clock  in  the  morning  when  I  heard  knocks  on  my  
door.  He  came  in  his  wheelchair  along  with  his  wife,  brother  
and  oldest  son.  He  kept  staring  at  me.  "It  is you!"  he  said  with  
a  stupefied  look  on  his  face.  "What  do  you  want  from  me?"  I  
responded.  "This  son  of  a  bitch  brother  of  mine,"  he  replied,  
"has  been  exploiting  me  for  the  last  three  years.  He  uses  my  
tractor  and  gives  me  bread  crumbs.  I  want to work  for the  sake  
of    my  children.  I  want  to  mount  my  tractor  like  before  and  go  
to   work.  I  want  to  give  him  employment  and  not  have  to  rely  
on  his  charity.  I  will  get well.  I know I  will  get well.  That's  why  
I  came  here."  He  was  full  of  confidence  and  enthusiasm  that  he  
was  in  fact  going  to  get  cured.  A  healer  must  never  allow  such  
an  opportunity  to  pass  by.  So  I  said,  "Of  course  you  will  get  
well.  Can  you tell  me  how?  I know,  myself,  but I  also want you 
to   tell  me."  "Come  near  me,"  he  said.  "Put  your  left  hand  on  
my  shoulder  and  the  other  hand  underneath  and  order  me  to  
stand  up  and  I  will  stand  up."  Without  losing  a  single  moment  
I  did  exactly  what  he  asked  me  to  do.  When  I  said,  "Stand  up  

HEALING 
183 
and  walk,"  he  got  out  of  his  wheelchair  and  began  walking.  He  
took  a  few  steps  straight toward  his  brother  and  hit  him  on  the  
knee  with  his  fist.  "I  am  walking  now,  you  son  of  a  bitch,"  he  
said   to   him.   "Tomorrow   I   will   be   riding   the   tractor."   He   
looked  at  me  and  said,  "What  do  you  want  me  to  do  now?"  
"Listen  friend,"  I  said,  "tonight  before  you  go  to  sleep  I  want  
you  to  go  to  church  and  light  a  candle  in  front  of  the  icon  of  
the  Holy  Virgin  and  that  of  Christ."  "Why,  is  it     necessary?"  he  
asked   in   surprise.   "Yes.   They   made   you   well,"   I   said.   I   
preferred  that  his  faith  rest  upon  something  beyond  the  human,  
beyond   me,   upon   something   transcendental.   It   would   be   
beneficial  for  his  subconscious.  In  reality  this  is  the  Reality.  The  
next  day  he  mounted  his  tractor.  He  has  been  working for three 
years   now   without   any   problems.   Where   is   the   multiple   
sclerosis?'  Daskalos  concluded  with  irony.  
is   it  possible  to  heal  someone  who  does  not  believe  or  has  
doubts?'  I  asked.  
'Yes,   assuming  that  his  subconscious   does   not  interfere.   I   
prefer  that  such  a  person  be  unaware  of  my  attempt  to  heal  
him.  When  he  is  in  a  peaceful  and  receptive  state  of  mind  I  can  
have  influence  over  him  in  the  same  way  that  the  Holy  Spirit  
has  an  influence  over  his  body  in  healing  a  wound.  You  will  
learn  that  as  a  rule  those  who  suffer  do  not  help  you  at  all  
during  the  healing.   In  the  great  majority  of  cases  they  have  
doubts.  "How  can  this  be  possible?"  is  their  first  reaction.  Do  
not  give  them  time  to  indulge  in  such  doubts.  You  will  often  
have  to  carry  on  the  healing  without  their  being  aware  of  what  
you  are  doing.'  
Daskalos  mentioned  that  when  the  individual  is  not  in  a  
receptive  mood  he  fortifies  himself  with  elementals  around  him  
that  prevent  the  healing  energy  from  penetrating  his  aura.  He  
advised  his  students  that  whenever  they  do -healing,  they  should  
make  sure  that  non-believers  are  not  present  because  with  their  
thoughts   such   people   create   negative   elementals   that   may   
interfere  with   the  cure.   Contrariwise,   persons   in   attendance   
with  a  supportive  frame  of  mind  can  create  vibrations that  may  
assist  the  healer  with  the  therapy.  When  the  psychotherapist  
has   sufficient   power  he   may   be   in   a  position   to   neutralize   
negative  elementals  created  either  by  the  patient  or  those  in  
attendance.  It  is  always  better,  however,  that  the  patient  enter  

184 HEALING 
into  a  receptive  mood  through  appropriate  suggestions  by  the  
healer  and  through  autosuggestions  on  the  patient's  part.  I  had  
been  earlier  informed  of  an  episode  as  to  how  Daskalos  healed  
a  cripple  whom  he  accidentally  met  at  a  sea  resort.  Daskalos  
and  Theophanis  spent  a  day  at  the  beach.  As  they  were  sun  
bathing   they   noticed   a   man   in   a   wheelchair   gazing   at   the   
horizon.  They  approached  him  and  engaged  him  in  a  prolonged  
conversation.  After  they  convinced  him  of  their  power  to  cure  
him,  they  proceeded  right  there  and  they  were  able  to  get  him  
out  of  the  wheelchair.  His  handicap  was  gone  and  he  walked  
home. 
Daskalos  went  on  to  argue  that  to  become  an  effective  healer  
you   must   become   master   of   the   different   properties   of   the   
etheric-double.  Unless  one  does that,  he  said, one  can  only  have  
limited  success.  Many  healers  are  not  aware  of  what  they  do  
and  often  appear  to  behave  hysterically  in  a  healing  session.  
They   work   in   the   dark.    Daskalos    did   not   discount   the   
importance   of   'blind   faith'   in   healing.   But  we,   he   said,   as   
Researchers  of  Truth  must  know  what  we  are  doing.  
'Let  me   tell  you  of  an  experience   I  had  with   an  English  
woman,  a  practicing healer in  London, who visited me  recently.  
She  was  present  when  someone  suffering  from  acute  arthritis  
came  to  see  me.  She  asked  whether  I  would  let  her  take  care  of  
that  case.  1  said,  "Fine,  go  ahead.  You  can  do it."  The  hand  of  
the  patient  was  swollen  and  his  fingers  were  hurting  a  lot.  She  
closed   her   eyes   and   began   moving  her  hand   up   and   down   
hysterically.  Perhaps  that  was  her  way  of  gaining  confidence  
and  faith.  "Move  away,  Daskale,"  she  demanded,  "because  I  
will  shake the  evil off."  She  believed  that  she  was  "shaking"  the  
evil  off  from  his  hand.  She  did  succeed  in  curing  the  man.  After  
he  left  I  asked  her  to  explain  to  me  what  she  had  done.   "I   
removed  the  evil,"  she  said.  She  was  unaware  that  in  reality,  
through   the   kinetic   property   of   ether,   she   had   transferred   
etheric   energy.   She   placed   herself   in   a   semihypnotic   state   
without   being   aware   of   it.   Perhaps   the   patient,   who   was   
watching  with  his  mouth open,  was  also  semihypnotized.  "Why  
did  you  shake  your  hand?"  I  asked.  "Oh,"  she  replied,  "I  had  
to    throw   the   evil   away."   "Where?   On   the   floor,   on   the   
marbles?"  She  was  successful  but  she  did  not  know  why.  
'As  Researchers  of Truth  we  must  be  fully  conscious  of what 

HEALING 
185 
we  are  doing.  It  is  a  much  more  powerful  and  effective  way  to  
healing  than  such  hysterical  methods  that  may  cause  healing  
phenomena    to    happen    but    may    also    create    unnecessary    
disturbance  within  the  subconscious.  Most  healers  in  Europe  
and  elsewhere  are  not  familiar  with  the  nature  and  functions  of  
the  etheric-double.  Their  work  is  through  blind  faith.  That  is  
why  their  healing  successes  are  often  limited.  For  example,  to  
be  able  to  heal  a  broken  spine one  has  to  know not only  how to 
master  the  various  properties  of  ether  but  one  must  also  learn  
human  anatomy.  Just  today  1  took  care  of  the  spinal  problems  
of    a  patient.  Two  sisters  [students]  were  present  and  helped  me  
out.' 
Apparently  Daskalos  was  alluding  to  another  case  similar  to  
the  one  I  had  witnessed.  The  two  sisters  he  referred  to  were  
present  at  the  meeting  and  nodded  affirmatively.  
'This  patient's  vertebrae  were  out  of  position  and  she  had  
terrible  pains  in  her  legs.  In  such  a  case  the  most  a  faith  healer  
could  do  would  probably  be  to  remove  the  pain  for  a  few  days.  
It   would  be  very  difficult  to  handle  such  a  problem  through  
blind  faith.  It  would  be  impossible  to  place  the  vertebrae  in  
their  right  place  unless  one  knows  consciously  how  to  employ  
etheric  vitality  and  also  have  a  knowledge  of  the  structure  of  
the  spine.  
in   this  case,  through  the  imprinting  property  of  ether,  we  
could  create  two  etheric  hands  and  place  them  inside  the  body  
of    the  patient.  By  mastering  the  sense  property  of  ether,  we  
could  then  feel  on  the  edges  of  our  etheric  fingers  the  spinal  
problem  and  move  the  vertebrae  into  their  proper  place.  Four  
hands  are  now  at  work,  the  material  hands  outside  the  body,  
and  the  etheric  hands  inside.'  
Daskalos  has  repeatedly  elaborated  that  etheric  energy  has  
four  properties   working  simultaneously:   the  kinetic,  sensate,  
imprinting   and   creative.   The   kinetic  property   is   that  which  
makes  possible  the  ability  of  movement,  such  as  blood  flow,  
heart    beat,    pulsation    of    the    lungs,    movement    of   limbs,   
metabolism  and  so  on.  The  sensate  property  is  that  part  of  the  
ether  that  makes  possible  the  existence  of  sense  experience,  
feelings  and  sentiments.  The  imprinting  property  enables  us  to  
construct noetic  images,  that  is,  it  makes  possible  thought  itself  
as     well   as   phenomena   such   as   telepathy,   telekinesis   and   

186 
HEALING 
exomatosis.   The   creative   property   of   ether   is   what   makes   
possible  the  construction  and  maintenance  of  the  body.  
Without  the  creative  property  of  ether,  Daskalos  went  on  to  
argue,  no  therapy  could  take  place.  He  advised  his  students  not  
to   be  preoccupied  with  this  property  of  ether for  the  time  being  
which,  according  to  him,  comes  under  the  direct  supervision  
and   control   of   the   Holy   Spirit.   Instead,   he   urged   them   to   
become   masters,   first,   of   the   imprinting,   kinetic   and   sense   
properties  of  etheric  vitality.  
'You  should  master  these  properties  of  ether  by  exercising  
with  the  construction  of  live  and  powerful  visual  images  that  
can  be  applied  in  therapy.  The  moment  you  create  such  benign  
elementals    they    become    automatically    charged    with    the    
creative  properties  of  ether  which  are  the  province  of  the  Holy  
Spirit   and  of   the   Christ   Logos.   For   the   next   fifteen   days   I   
would  like  you  to  do  the  following  exercise.  Close  your  eyes  
and  see  with  your  etheric  eyes  that  you  hold  in  your  right  hand  
a  luminous  ball  of  white  light  the  size  of  a  tennis  ball.  You  are  
now  exercising  the  imprinting  property  of  ether.  Feel  it  in  your  
hand.  It  is  alive  and  it  vibrates  with  luminosity.  This  will  train  
you  in  mastering  the  sense  property  of  ether.  What  you  have  
created  is  an  elemental  of  thought-desire  that  can  be  used  for , 
therapy  at  a  distance.  Think  of  a  person  who  is  suffering  from  
some  illness  and  send  this  ball  of  light  to  cover  his  entire  body.'  
Now   you   are   exercising   the   kinetic   property   of   ether.   The   
greater   your  ability  to   concentrate  on   the  formation  of  this,  
elemental,   the   greater  its   therapeutic  value.   The   Holy   Spirit   
will  automatically  fill  this  ball  of  light  with  creative  energy.'  
Daskalos  then   went  on  to  argue  that  mastering  the   sense   
property  of  ether  is  crucial  to  determining  a  patient's  problem  
from  a  distance.  By  holding  his  photograph  one  can  come  in  
contact  with   his   magnetism   and   'feel'   the  vibrations  of  that.  
individual.  A  diagnosis  of  his  problem  can  then  follow.  
Daskalos  ended  his  talk.  The  tape  recorders  went  off  and  
everybody  in  the  room  began  getting  ready to  leave.  I  had  a  last  
question  and  the  tape  recorders  went  on  again.  My  query  was  
in    reference   to   the  role  of  colors   in   therapy.   Daskalos   had   
repeatedly  argued  that  therapy  from  a  distance  is  possible  by  
creating   elementals   of   various   colors   that   can   be   sent   to   
padents.  Presumably  for  each  disease  there  is  an  appropriate  

HEALING 
187 
color  that  a  healer  could  project  through  thought.  
'Do    colors,'    I    inquired,    'have    therapeutic    qualities    in    
themselves  or  do  they  bring  about  therapeutic  effects  because  
the  healer  himself  imbues  them  with  healing  power?'  
'First  of   all,   colors  do  not  exist,'   Daskalos   replied  in   no   
uncertain  terms.  'There  are  only  etheric  vibrations  that  offer  us  
the  impression  of  colors.  Color  is  also  sound,  light,  movement,  
and  a  number  of  other  things.  
'When  I  say,  for  example,  this  color  is  red,  it  simply  means  
that   my    eye    absorbs    the    irritation    of   this    frequency   of   
vibrations   which   hits   a  part  of  my   brain.   The  present  self-
conscious  personality  then  interprets  this  irritation  as  red  color.  
Whatever  gives  us  the  same  vibration  in  our  environment  will  
create  for  us  exactly  this  feeling  of  redness.   Everything  that  
exists  is  the  result  of  frequencies  of  vibrations,  including  the  
composition  of  matter.  
'We  have  observed  that   specific  vibration   frequencies   and   
corresponding  centers  of  the  brain  bring  about  certain  results,  
say   tranquility   and   calmness.   We   then   conclude   that   this   
particular   color   has   these   qualities.   We   have   noticed,   for   
example,  that  there  is  a  correspondence  between  the  sentiment  
of     altruistic   love   and   that   vibration    which    gives   us   the   
impression   of   the   white-rose   light.   If   you   ask   me   why   the   
vibrations  that  give  me  the  feeling  of  white-rose  light  calm  me  
down,  I  could  not  answer.  I  don't  believe  anyone  can  answer  
such  a  question.  But  I  have  this  to  add.  A  color  that  may  calm  
one    person    could    have    the    opposite    effect    on    another.    
However,  we  can  say  that  in  general  a  color  like  the  white-rose  
can  have  a  soothing  effect  on  most  people.  But  if  you  cover  a  
room  with  a  white-rose  color  and  place  there  a  very  nervous  
individual,  that person  may  become  more  intense.  I  remember  a  
case  of  a  married  couple  that  almost  divorced  because  the  wife  
painted  the  bedroom  with  such  a  color.  Why  did  that  color  
upset  her  husband?  I  was  aware  that  earlier  in  his  life  he  had  
fallen  in  love  with  a  girl  who  habitually  used  to  offer  him  a  
fragrant   rose.   Later   they   broke  off   the   relationship.   So   the   
white-rose  color  subconsciously  reminded  him  of  a  pain  he  had  
experienced  in  the  past.  
'In  answer  to  your  question,  therefore,  I  have  to  add  that  in  
reality  it  is  not  only  the  vibrations  that  are  responsible  for  a  

188 
HEALING 
certain  effect,  but  also  the  way  we  perceive  things.  In  general  
terms,   however,  we  have  noticed  that  specific  colors  have  a  
corresponding effect on  the  majority of individuals.  In  situations  
when  you  are  not  certain  as  to  what  color  to  project,  simply  
send  a  ball  of  white  light  to  the  patient.  That  ball  can  envelop  
parts  of  his  body  or  the  entire  body.  When  we  deal  with  a  
specific  disease  and  we  know  the  appropriate  color,  then  we  
employ  that  color.  For  example,  in  cases  of  anemia  we  could  
project  with  our  minds  white-rose  or  orange  color.  Never  send  
red.   Red  will  cause  nervousness,  confusion  and  despair.  We  
should   also   never  send   red  to  someone  suffering  from   high   
blood  pressure.  Deep  red  is  permitted  only  on  certain  occasions  
and  in  small  doses.  In  cases  of  cancer  we  will  project  a  ball  
radiating   violet   color   and   place   it   inside   the   center   of   the   
tumor.  We  will  keep  it  there  until  it  destroys  the  tumor.  Then  
we   must   remove   this   color   elemental   and   destroy   it.   As   a   
general  rule  of thumb,  you  should  know  that  white  is  the  safest  
color  to  use  in  any  therapy.  We  never  harm  anybody  when  we  
project  a  vibrant  white  ball  of  light.'  
Daskalos  ended  the  lesson  by  urging  his  students  to  practice  
their  meditation  exercises  and  to  systematically   spend  a  few  
minutes  every  night  in  self-analysis.  'You  must  kill  every  trace  
of    egotism  from  your  personality.'  It  was  an  admonition  that  
Daskalos  repeated  with  monotonous  frequency.  
I  made  arrangements  to  meet  with  him  the  following  day  to  
continue  the  discussion  on  healing.  I  had  many  more  questions  
to    ask   on   the   subject,   particularly   as   it   pertained   to   Mrs   
Katina's  case.  Daskalos  was  always  willing  to  offer  me  'private  
lessons.' 

11 
Materialization and 
Dematerialization 
When  1  visited  Daskalos  it  was  nine  in  the  morning.  I  found  
him  watering  his  plants.  He  probably  had  the  most  varied  and  
exotic  collection  of  cacti  on  the  island  and  he  was  very  fond  of  
them.  'This  cactus,'  he  told  me  with  pride,  'comes  from  the  
Amazon,  a  gift  from  an  anthropologist  friend  of  mine.  This  one  
is    from   Arizona,  that  one   from  Africa....'   I   followed   him   
about  listening  to  his  botanical  lecture  on  the  many  varieties  
and  attributes   of  cacti.   'This  cactus,'   he  said,   pointing  at  a  
large,  round  and  menacing-looking creature,  'could  harm  you  if  
you   touch   it   unless   you   show   it   affection.'   Daskalos   then   
humorously  described  how  one  day  he  took  it  to  a  florist  in  
order  to  find  a  special  nutrient  for  it.  The  shopkeeper  warned  
him   never   to   touch   that   cactus   because   it   is   alive   and   the   
moment  one  lays  a  hand  on  it  its  prickles  penetrate  the  flesh.  
Daskalos  deliberately  grabbed  the  cactus  with  his  palm  in  front  
of    the  stupefied  florist  and  kept  it     there for  a  couple  of  minutes.  
With  a  soft  voice  he  then  asked  the  plant,  'Let  me  go  now,  my  
love,'  and  the  cactus  opened  up  and  let  Daskalos  remove  his  
hand  unharmed.  
With  the  plants  watered,  we  sat  down  and  I  began  asking  
questions  about  the   miraculous   healing  I  had   witnessed   the   
other  day.  
'You   must   understand,'   he   said,   'that   there   was   nothing   
miraculous  about  that  case.  If  you  call  that  a  miracle,  then  all  
life  should  be  considered  a  miracle.  I  simply  mastered  certain  
forces  in  Nature  and  applied them  for  healing  purposes.  I  have  
become   the   cable   through   which   that   superintelligence,   the   
Holy  Spirit,  works.'  Daskalos  then  mentioned  that  the  case  I  
had   witnessed   the   other   day   involved   materialization   and   
dematerialization.  'Materialization  means  harnessing  and  con-
solidating  the  substance  by  which  matter  is  formed.  What  is  
this  substance?  The  scientists  call  it  energy,  we  call  it  vitality,  
189 

190               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
the  Hindus  call  it  Prana.  Conversely,  dematerialization  means  
the  transmutation  of  solid  matter  into  energy  or  vitality.  It  is  
the  release  of  harnessed  and  solidified  vitality.   Scientists  can  
now  transform  matter  into  energy.  We  mystics  have  our  own  
methods.  We  accomplish  such  feats  by  the  sheer  force  of  the  
will. 
'Materialization  and  dematerialization  have  been  experienced  
all  through  the  ages  in  every  corner  of  the  Earth.  Throughout  
the  centuries  mystics  were  able  to  materialize  and  dematerialize  
objects.  We  find  such  cases  in  the  Bible,  in  the  Old  Testament,  
in   the  sacred  books  of  Asia,  of  America,  of  the  Aztecs ...  It  
means   that  these  phenomena  are   not  the   result  of  fraud  or  
superstition.  They  are  part  of  Reality.  Most  of  the  miracles  of  
Jesus  Christ were  cases  of materialization  and  dematerialization.  
One  such  case  is  when  He  harnessed  energy  from  the  universe  
and   solidified   it   into   fish   and   bread   in   order   to   feed   the   
multitude.' 
'When  you  say Jesus  harnessed  energy  from  the  universe,  do  
you  imply  the  universe  of  the  three  dimensions?'  
'No.  I  mean  all  the  universes.  We  must  not  confine  energy  
into   invisible   matter   or   substance   of   the   three   dimensional   
world.   Because   even   invisible   matter   belongs   to   the   three-
dimensional  world.  We  have  also  the  fourth-dimensional,  fifth-
dimensional,  the  sixth-  and  seventh-dimensional  universes.  The  
mystic   is   working   with   his   superconsciousness   from   these   
higher  dimensions.  Therefore  to  become  master  of  materializ-
ation   and   dematerialization,   one   must   develop   and   become:   
master  of  his  superconsciousness.  To  affect  gross  matter  you  
must  work  from  a  higher  dimension.'  
'Are  you  saying  that  to  harness  this  vitality  and  transform  it  
into   solid   matter  one   has  to   work   from  within   the   fourth-
dimensional,  or  psychic  world?'  
'Not  exactly.  Vitality  exists  in  all  the  dimensions  of  Reality.'  
You  can  get it    from  everywhere  and  then  transmute  it     into  hard  
solids.' 
'How?' 
'You  must  start  working  from  the  highest  dimensions  and  
descend   through   the   lower   levels   until   you  reach   the   gross   
material  plane.  You  must  begin  from  the  higher  noetic  world,  
the  world  of  ideas,  laws,  causes,  the  world  of  noumena.  From  

191 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
there  on  you  proceed  to  lower  the vibrations.  You  pass  through  
the  lower  noetic  world,  the  world  of  images  and  forms.  Then  
you  reach  the  psychic  plane  and  further  down  you  arrive  at  
solid  matter.'  
Daskalos   mentioned   that   he   himself   brought   his   abilities   
from  previous   incarnations.   He   did  not  acquire  them  in  his  
present  life.  However,  the  first  step  in  mastering  such  abilities  
presupposes  learning  how  to  concentrate  and  how  to  overcome  
one's  egotism.  
'One   must   set   aside   his   present   personality   expressed   as   
egotism  and  discover  the  real  self  within.  He  must  also  become  
master  of  his  material  body  and  its  etheric  counterpart.  He  has  
to    learn   how   to   work   on   the   etheric-double,   which   is   the   
invisible  material  part  of  oneself.  The  Researcher  of  Truth  must  
become  master  of  the  various  properties  of  ether  or  vitality,  
that  is  the  kinetic  property,  the  sense  property,  the  imprinting  
property  and  the  creative  property,  the  latter  being  the  most  
difficult.  For  example,  you  must  learn  how  to  create,  through  
the  imprinting  property  of  the  etheric-double,  noetic  images.  It  
implies   learning   how   to   transform   the   formless   vitality   or   
substance  of  Mind  which  is  everywhere  within  the  universes  
into   thought   forms.   Unless   you   master   thought   you   can   
accomplish  nothing.  It  means  in  reality  mastering  the  power  of  
concentration.  If  you  are  to  materialize  an object,  you  must  first  
construct   it  in   your   mind   and  through   undistracted   intense   
concentration  you  charge  it  with  etheric  vitality.  But  with  the  
slightest   distraction   the   materialization   vanishes.   You   must   
understand that the  key to  mastering matter is in concentration.' 
it   is  the  most  important  quality  of  the  mind,'  I  commented.  
'Without  concentration  you  cannot  achieve  anything  in  this  life,  
period.' 
'Good.   This    is   particularly   so   in   other   dimensions   of   
existence  and  is  a precondition for becoming a psychotherapist.' 
Daskalos   then   went   on   to   elaborate   on   the   differences   
between  clairvoyance,  exomatosis,  and  'expansion'  as  various  
abilities   of   the   mystic   important   in   healing.   I   had  had   the   
opportunity   to   discuss  with   him  on   an   earlier  occasion   the   
subject    of    clairvoyance    and    exomatosis    but   not   that    of    
'expansion.'  I  asked  for  clarification.  
'Clairvoyance   means  receiving  vibrations   from  somewhere  

192               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
which  are  then  translated  as  "seeing."  One  may,  for  example,  
perceive  clearly  some  event  that  takes  place  in  London.  That  
event  is  perceived  in  a  similar  manner  as  a  television  program  
from  London.  Clairvoyance  means attuning oneself to vibrations 
of    noetic  or  astral  lig^it,  making  possible  perception  of  scenes  
from  distant  places.  
'A    more    advanced    mystic   has   other   means   of   getting   
information.  He  can  expand  in  space.  Everything  takes  place  
within  his  consciousness.  Whatever  he  receives  and  perceives  is  
from  himself.  This  is  what  we  call  expansion.'  
'How  is  expansion  different  from  exomatosis?'  I  probed.  
'Expansion  is  a  form  of  exomatosis  but  of  a  different  quality.  
In   ordinary  exomatosis  a  master  transports  his  consciousness  to  
the   place   where   he   wants   to   work   or   get   experiences.   In   
expansion,   however,   a  master   spreads   out  his   consciousness   
and  brings  everything  within  himself.  Though  he  may  cover  a  
distance,   still   that  distance   is   within  him.   We   could   call   it   
exomatosis  in  the  absence  of  a  better  term  but  I  would  rather  
call  it  expansion.  In  such  a  state  of  consciousness  a  mystic  can  
receive vibrations simultaneously from  several places, experience 
them   all,   feel   them   all,   without   confusion.   It   is   a   form   of   
superconsciousness. 
'Clairvoyance,     exomatosis     and     expansion,'     explained     
Daskalos,  'are  different  abilities  and  stages  in  the  development  
of    the  mystic.  Some  mystics  can  use  all  three  forms  of  psychic  
experience,  others  the  first  or  second.  The  most  difficult  and  
most   advanced   of   the   three   stages   is   expansion.   To   affect   
animate  or  inanimate  matter  presupposes  the  development  of  
the  third  stage  of  psychic  mastery.'  
Many  years  back  Daskalos  had  tried  through  expansion  to  
experiment  with  the  transmutation  of  metals.  I  assumed  that  it  
was  a  form  of  alchemy  but  Daskalos  denied  it.  
'I   wanted  to  transmute  the  twenty-karat  gold  wedding  ring  
of    my  wife  into  silver.  I  placed  the  ring on  the  table  and  next to 
it   a  piece  of  silver,  specifically  a  two-shilling  coin.  I  then  came  
out   of   my   body   and   disconnected   the   link   between   my   
psychonoetic  body  and  my  material  body.'  
'Why  was  it  necessary  to  do  that?'  
'Because  the  vibrations  created  through  my  will  power  were  
so    intense that  my  body  could  have  been  burned.  That  is  why  I  

193 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
had  to   temporarily  suspend   the  communicadon   between   the   
material   body   and   the   psychonoetic.   In   addition   I   had   to   
abandon  my  psychic  body  and  work  only  with  the  noetic.  I  had  
no  need  to  go  any  higher,  I  was  still  in  the  world  of  forms  and  
images.  Through  my  noetic  body  I  implanted  my  consciousness  
within  the  ring  and  observed  the  behavior  of  atoms.  This  is  a  
form  of  expansion  in  consciousness;  it  is  another  ability  of  the  
mystic.  He  can  come  out  of  his  body  and  rest  on  the  petal  of  a  
flower  and* perceive  it  as  a  lawn,  a  long  road  or  the  runway  of  
an  airport.  He  may  become  smaller  than  an  atom  and  observe  
its    behavior  yet  it  is  always  he,  full  and  complete.  Similarly  he  
can  expand  within  a  city  and  be  aware  of  whatever  goes  on  
within  it.  He  can  even  expand  within  the  entire  solar  system  
and  beyond  it,  losing  nothing  of  himself.  He  will  not  become  
bigger  or  smaller.  There  is  no  fear,  therefore,  of  losing  oneself,  
of    becoming  larger  or  smaller.  By  concentrating  on  a  grain  of  
sand  it     is  no  different  than  perceiving  or  expanding  on  a  planet.  
Do  you  understand  now  what  is  implied  when  they  chant  in  
church  "in  His  Universes"?  The  Pan-universal  Logos  is  perfect  
and  complete  in  His  absolute  superconsciousness within  a  grain  
of    sand  as  well  as  within  a  galaxy.  
'When  I  entered  inside  the  ring  I  observed  the  behavior  of  
the  atoms.  I  saw  the  nucleus  of  the  atom  much  more  clearly  
than  any  scientific  instrument  could  ever  help  me  see.  I  noticed  
everything,  the  velocity  of  the  electrons,  their  number  within  
each  atom  of  gold  and  their  distance  from  one  another.  Then  I  
came  out  of  the  gold  ring  and  entered  inside  the  silver  coin.  I  
made  the  same  observations  and  noticed  the  difference  between  
the  atomic  structure  of  gold  and  that  of  silver.  Then  I  returned  
to   the  ring.  Through  my  will  power  and  concentration  I  was  
able  to  rearrange  the  atomic  structure  of  a  single  gold  atom  so  
that  it  conformed  with  that  of  silver.  By  transforming  a  single  
atom  a  chain  reaction  was  set  into  motion  and  eventually  all  
the other atoms changed  in  the  same  direction.  I then  re-entered  
the  silver  coin  and  changed  one  silver  atom  into  gold.  Believe  
me  it     is  not  through  fantasy  that  you  achieve  that.  It  is  through  
observation  and  the  power  of  creative  thought.  
'When  I  came  out  of  the  ring  and  returned  to  my  body,  the  
gold   ring  was   still  gold   and   die  silver  coin  was   still  silver.  
Several  of  my   students  were  present  during  the  experiment.  

194               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
They  pointed  out  that  nothing  had  happened.  "No,"  I  insisted,  
"the  gold  ring  is  now  turning  silver.  Just  wait  awhile."  They  
took  it  in  their  hands.  It  was  still  gold.  A  few  seconds  passed  
and  I  asked  them  to  throw  it  down  and  concentrate  on  the  
sound   of   the   ring.   They   followed   my   directions   and   after   
several  repetitions  they  began  to  distinguish  a  marked  change  in  
the  sound.  The  gold  ring  gradually  became  silver  in  their  hands  
and  the  silver  coin  was  transformed  into  gold.  The  following  
day  I  changed  them  back  to  their  original  state.  You  see,  the  
transmutation  of  gold  into  silver  or  vice  versa  is  a  temporary  
state.  Eventually  the  transmuted  metals  reverse  to  their  natural  
condition.' 
'Why  is  that  so?'  
'I   do not know.  Suppose  1 kept the  ring in  its  silver state.  In  a  
year  or  two  it  would  have  become  gold  again.  It  would  do  so  
because  it  obeys  the  laws  of  the  material  universe.'  
'But  you  said  before  that  you  were  working  within  the  laws  
of    the  universe?'  
'Exactly.  In  this  particular  case  the  law  means  that  if  you  
transmute  silver  into  gold  or  gold  into  silver,  it  will  eventually  
return  to  its  original  state.  Why?  I  have  no  idea.'  
Daskalos   then   added  humorously  that  someone  he  knew,  
after  learning  of  the  experiment,  knocked  at  his  door  carrying;  
along  several  bars  of  lead.  He  wanted  Daskalos  to  transform;  
them  into  gold.  Daskalos  got  angry  and  sent  him  away.  
'On  a  different  occasion,'  Daskalos  went  on,   i   wished  to  
experiment    with    living    substance    and    transmute    it    into    
inanimate   substance.   The   moment   that   is   achieved,   living;   
matter  can  no  longer  regain  its  original  form.  For  example,  if  a  
plant  is  transformed  into  brass  it  can  never  return  to  life  again.  
It   will  remain  brass.  I  got  a  small  branch  of  olive  tree  and  a  
piece  of  rose  bush.  I  placed  next  to  them  a  piece  of  brass,  a  
piastre  coin.  1  followed  the  same  method  as  before.  When  I:
!   
woke  up,  the  olive  branch  was  still  olive  branch  and  the  piece  
of   rose  bush  was  still  a  rose  bush.  But  within  minutes  they  were  
transformed    into    brass.    I    had    turned    living   matter   into   
inanimate  matter.  In  reality,  of  course,  there  is  no  dead  matter.  
Strictly  speaking,  all  matter  is  alive.  Anything  that  exists  and  
vibrates  is  alive.  
'A   few  days  later  a  student  of  mine  visited  me.  He  taught  

195 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
physics  at  the  gymnasium.  My  wife,  who  had  a  habit  of  talking  
too  much,  mentioned  to  him  what  happened  and  showed  him  
the  leaves  turned  into  brass.  He  lost  no  time.  He  booked  a  
plane  and  went  to  Athens  to  see  a  professor  of  chemistry  at  the  
university.  He  brought  the  leaves  along  with  him.  He  explained  
to   this  professor  what   he  had   seen   and  heard.  The  chemist  
responded:  "Your  master  is  a  good  hypnotist  and  a  trickster  
and  made  you  see  what  he  wanted  you  to  see."  That  professor  
thought  that  he   had  in   his   hands  the  evidence   to  expose  a  
vagabond.  He  decided  to  test  the  leaves  and  reasoned  that  if     his  
tests   proved   that  it  was   chlorophyll   transformed  into   brass,   
then   it   would   have   meant   that   the   leaves   were   genuine.   
Otherwise they would be nothing more than good craftsmanship. 
He   was   shocked   to   find   out   that   the   leaves   were   indeed   
genuine.  He  rushed  to  Cyprus  to  visit  me.  "Sir,"  he  said,  "in  
the  name  of  science  I  demand  an  explanation."  "And  I,  sir,"  I  
replied,  "show  you  the  door  and  ask  you  to  leave."  '  
'Why  did  you  do  that,  Daskale?'  I  protested.  
'  "You  are  blind  in  your  mind,"  I  said  to  him.  "In  spite  of  
your   pride   and   fame,   you   cannot   see   the   relevance   of   this   
phenomenon  to  the  Divine."  '  
'You   could   have   persuaded   him   with   your   arguments,'   1   
persisted. 
'He    would    have    manufactured    other   explanations    and    
idiocies.  "What  does  God  have  to  do  with  this?"  he  said.  "If  
you   cannot   understand   what   life   is,"   I   replied,   "I   cannot   
explain  to  you  what  happened."  I  could  have  offered  him  an  
explanation  which  he  would  most probably  have  misunderstood  
and  dismissed  as  nonsense.  I  just  did  not  like  his  arrogance  and.  
pomposity.' 
'Did  you  not  say  to  me  sometime  ago  that  you  would  rather  
discuss  such  matters  with  rational  and  well-intentioned  atheists  
than  with  religious  fanatics?'  
'With  well-intentioned  atheists  I  would.  He  was  not  one  of  
them.  He  was  a  fanatical  atheist  like  a  religious  zealot.  He  was  
not  in  a  position  to  understand.  I  could  not  have  convinced  him  
of    the  existence  of  God  even  if  I  had  presented  God  in  front  of  
him.  "Don't  talk  to  me  about  God,"  he  said.  "What  does  God  
mean?  These  are  mysteries  about  the  properties  of  matter  that  
eventually   will   be   explained   by   science.   Everything   else   is   

196               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
coincidence.  It  is  as  if  a  glass  breaks  by  itself  and  we  cannot  
explain why it   breaks."  Since he was incapable of understanding, 
he  could  not  perceive  the  nature  of  the  laws  at  work.  He  was  
blind.  He  should,  himself,  have  come  to  the  understanding  of  
the  reality  of  God  after  studying  the  phenomenon.  Had  he  been  
a  person  who  came  to  me,  not  with  humility  towards  me  but  
towards   the   phenomenon   he   had   witnessed,   I   would   have   
helped  him  understand.  I  could  not  demand  of  him  to  accept  a  
Christ  who  was  born  inside  a  stall  with  horses  or  to  espouse  a  
superstitious  form  of  religious  belief.  Neither  did  I  expect  him  
to    believe   in   an   anthropomorphic  God   enthroned   upon   the   
clouds.  But  given  what  he  saw,  I  expected  him  to  be  open  to  the  
possibility  of  an  absolute  intelligence  behind  the  phenomenal  
world.   That   is   why   I   had   to   send   him   away.   You   cannot   
convince  people  of  the  reality  of  the  Absolute  with  phenomena.  
A  mystic  should  avoid   demonstrating  his  powers.  Magicians  
can,  through  tricks,  duplicate  what  a  master  can  do.  But  no  
magician  can  heal  a  wound,  remove  a  tumor  or  fix  a  broken  
spine.  There  is  no  sense  in  approaching  a  person  unless  he  has  
reached   a   certain   stage   in   his   spiritual   evolution,   when   he   
himself  feels   the   need   for  knowing  the  Truth.   When  people  
reach  that  state  of  consciousness  they  will  come  to  you.  One  
does  not  chase  people  imploring  them  to  have  a  glass  of  water.  
When  they  are  thirsty  they  will  ask  for  it  themselves.  There  is  
no  need,  therefore,  to  explain  to  people  who  have  no  other  
motivation  than  simple  curiosity  about  such  phenomena.  Those  
who  are  merely  curious  1  send  away. Those who have  a  genuine  
desire  for  knowledge  I  take  by  the  hand  and  guide  them  into  
the   mysteries   in   accordance   with   their  abilities   and   level   of   
understanding.' 
After  a  half-hour  break  when  Daskalos  was  giving  advice  to  
someone  on  the  phone,   we  resumed  our  discussion.   I   asked   
Daskalos  whether  the  case  of  Mrs  Katina  involved  a  form  of  
materialization  and  dematerialization.  
it   was  that  and  more,'  he  replied.  
Daskalos   made   use,   in   her  case,   of   his   etheric   hands   to   
dematerialize excessive tiny bones  (exosteosis)  that had accumu-
lated  around  her  spine  causing  extreme  pain.  
'By  creating  the  etheric  hands  I  was  able  to  feel  these  little  
bones  and  then  dematerialize  them.  I  also  had  to  create  a  new  

197 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
bone  because  as  you  may  have  seen  on  the  X-ray  plate,  her  
spine   was   full   of  porosity   at  different  spots.   The  bone   was   
falling  apart.  Through  materialization  I  created  solid  bone,  a  
form  of  living  matter.'  
'Before  you  could   accomplish  this   type  of  materialization,  
did  you  have   to   have  an  exact  vision  of  what  to  create?'  I  
asked. 
'Definitely.  I  also  had  to  first  see,  through  her  skin,  what  her  
problem  was.  In  what  way,  you  may  ask,  did  I  see,  using  my  
eyes?  No.  If  I  so  wish  I  can  see  into  your  body  with  closed  eyes.  
I  can  expand  myself,  enter  inside  the  patient,  and  see  everything  
in   that  person  from  all  sides  at  the  same  time.  1  can  close  my  
eyes,  for  example,  touch  my  hands  to  his  side  and  examine  the  
conditions  of  his  kidneys.  Are  the  molecules  of  my  hands  eyes  
to   see?  No.  Yet  I  can  see  through,  at  any  point  1  concentrate  
on,  the  patient's  body  or  the  body  of  any  person.'  
'Every  molecule  of  your  body  becomes  an  eye,'  I  added.  
'Exactly.  But  not  only  that.  I  can  concentrate  my  eyes  and  
enter  inside  you.  I  can  expand  and  bring  you  within  myself.  I  
can  expand  in  this  room  and  whatever  is  here  will  be  within  me  
and  I  can  observe  it  in  me  from  every  side.  People  come  to  me  
and  tell  me  their  problems.  They  sit  on  a  chair  in  front  of  me,  
they  talk,  and  I  listen.  While  they  do  so  I  expand.  I  bring  them  
within  me  so  that  I  can  feel  and  observe  anything  I  want  within  
their   bodies   and   discover   what   their   problems   are.   This   is   
precisely  how  I  cured  your  friend  who  had  the  accident.'  
Stelios,  a  close  friend  of  mine,  had  an  auto  accident  that  
almost  cost  his  life.  When  I  visited  him  with  Daskalos  he  was  
already   out   of   the   hospital   and   recuperating   at   home.   He   
complained  of  persistent  pains  on  the  right-hand  side  below  the  
navel.   While   Stelios   was   explaining   his   problem   Daskalos   
appeared   to  focus  his   gaze  on  him.  Then  he  explained  that  
what   caused   the   pain   was   a   crushed   gland   that  had   to   be   
removed  lest  it  become  carcinogenous.  Then  Daskalos  abruptly  
stood  up  and  asked  me  to  follow  him  to  the  next  room.  'Since  
you  are  eager  to  witness  phenomena,'  he  said  with  mischief  in  
his  voice,  'let  me  show  you  one.'  He  unbuckled  his  belt,  pulled  
up  his  shirt,  pushed  his  pants  low  on  his  right  side,  and  asked  
me  to  touch  him  on  the  spot  where  Stelios  complained  of  pains.  
I  saw  and  felt  an  inflated  gland  below  the  navel  on  Daskalos'  

198               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
right  side.   It  was  Stelios'  gland,  he  explained,  which  he  had  
dematerialized   from   my   friend's   body   and   transferred   into   
himself.   'He   is   freed   of   his   problem   now,'   he   said.   'His   
cancerous  gland  is  in  me  now.  I  will  get  rid  of  it  gradually  at  
my  own  pace.'  
I  was  in  no  way  able  to  determine  whether  my  friend's  gland  
was   actually   transferred   into   Daskalos'   body!   Unlike   Mrs   
Katina's  case,  for  which  I  had  held  the  empirical  evidence  in  
my  hands,   there  was   no   way  to  test  and   ascertain  whether  
Daskalos'  diagnosis  of  Stelios'  problem  was  valid  and  whether  
cure   had   actually   taken   place.   Daskalos   was   not   the   least   
concerned  as  to  whether  I  was  convinced  or  not.  I  must  admit  
the  thought  crossed  my  mind  that  perhaps  the  inflated  gland  
was  already  in  Daskalos'  body  before  we  arrived  at  my  friend's  
home,  that  it  was  pure  coincidence.  But  one  thing  was  clear.  
My  friend  was  relieved  of  his  pain  after  our  visit.  Furthermore,  
I  had  no  doubt  that  Daskalos  was  not  trying  to  fool  or  deceive  
me   with   'phenomena'   so   that   I   might  be   impressed.   I   had   
observed  him  in  many  instances  of  healing  not  to  be  unduly  
suspicious  as  I  had  been  at  the  beginning  of  our  acquaintance.  
By  this  time  I  had  developed  great  respect  for  and  admiration  
of    Daskalos'  healing  powers.  
Daskalos   went   on   as   he   referred   to   my   friend's   case,   'I   
noticed  the   cancerous   gland   during  our  conversation.   While   
talking  to  you,  part  of  my  consciousness  was  focused  on  you.  
But  at  the  same  time  another  part  of  my  consciousness  was  
within   his   body   observing   and   examining   everything.   How   
many   people   know   what   is   taking   place   inside   their   own   
bodies?  Once  I  expand  I  can  be  not  only  in  my  own  body  but  
also  in  your  body,  in  everybody's  body.  When  1  noticed  the  
gland,  I  had  to  dematerialize  it  in  his  body  and  then  transfer  it  
into  myself  so  that  I  can  gradually  dissolve  it.'  
'Why  was  it  necessary  to  take  in  into  yourself?'  I  wondered.  
'Had  I  dematerialized  it     that  very  moment  when  I  noticed  it,  
I  would  not  have  been  able  to  dissolve  it  completely.  It  would  
most  probably  have  reappeared  later  on.  I  had  to  transfer  it  
into   myself   and   quietly   dematerialize   it   completely.   Many   
healers  do  not  know  the  appropriate  method  of  dematerializing  
cancerous  tumors.  They   may  bring  about  a   cure  but  in  the  
course  of  time  the  problem  could  reappear.  One  has  to  learn  

199 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
the   right  way  of  healing.  This   is  what  we  try  to  teach   the   
would-be  psychotherapist.   As  I  mentioned,  the  most  difficult  
but  most  successful  method  of  healing  is  through  expansion,  
namely   bringing   the   entire   body   of   the   patient   within   my   
consciousness   and   working   from   within   myself.   The   other   
method  is  to  project  an  etheric hand,  implant  it    within  the  body  
of    the  patient,  and  then  proceed  with  dematerialization.  This  is  
not  the  safest  and  most  effective  method.  1  prefer  to  expand  my  
consciousness   and   work   from   all   sides   at   once.'   Daskalos   
leaned  back  in  his  chair  and  paused  for  a  few  moments.  
I  was  told  by  an  eye  witness  that  on  one  occasion  Daskalos  
removed  a  cancerous  tumor  from  the  body  of  a  woman  and  
transferred  it     to  the  thumb  of  his  left  hand.  His  relatives  wanted  
to   rush  him  to  the  hospital  and  have  the  thumb  amputated.  He  
reassured  them  that  in  a  few  days  the  cancer  would  disappear.  
Indeed,  in  two  days  the  tumor  on  his  thumb  was  gone.  
Daskalos  claimed  that  one  of the  preconditions  for  mastering  
healing   through   expansion   is   the   ability   to   truly   love   your   
fellow  man.  'You  must  reach  that  state  of  consciousness,'  he  
said,  'whereby  you  may  "love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  When  
you  reach  that  state,  healing  is  easy.  Unless  you  genuinely  love  
you  cannot  heal  and  you  cannot  accomplish  much  in  the  area  
of    what  people  call  the  paranormal.'  
'I   suppose,'  I pointed out,  'this  is  a  safety  valve  on how  much  
evil  a  black  sorcerer  can  inflict.'  
'The  word   "evil"   means   little  to  me,'   Daskalos   answered   
sharply.  'Who  is  really  a  black  sorcerer  but  an  ignorant  fellow  
who  has  mastered  certain  forces  in  nature  and  misused  them?  
What  is  considered  as  evil  is,  in  reality,  the  wrong  utilization  of  
divine    forces.    That    is    why    I    consider    the    word    "evil"    
inappropriate.   When  we  speak  of   evil  I  prefer  to   imply  the  
expression  of  oneself  in  an  ignorant  manner.  In  the  course  of  
time  one  learns  through  the  law  of  cause  and  effect.'  
'I   suppose,'  I  ventured  to  add,  'this  is  what  Socrates  had  in  
mind  when  he  argued  that  nobody  does  evil  knowingly.'  
'Precisely.  Evil  is  ignorance.'  
'Daskale,'  I  asked,  shifting  the  conversation  back  to  the  topic  
of    materialization,   'is   it  possible   for   an   advanced  mystic  to  
dematerialize  himself  or  rematerialize  at  another  place?'  I  raised  
this  question   because  the  notion   of  teleportation,   no  matter  

200               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
how  bizarre  it  may  sound,  is  considered  a  fact  in  the  literature  
on    occultism.    For    example,    Castaneda    reported    that    he    
experienced  such  a  phenomenon  while  he  was  an  apprentice  to  
Don Juan.  I  also  met  an  Indian  professor  of  music,  the  husband  
of    the  Indian  ambassadress  to  a  European  state,  who  confided  
in   me  in  all  seriousness  that  he  had  witnessed  teleportadon  
performed  by  an  Indian  yogi.  
'Yes  it  is  possible  to  dematerialize  and  rematerialize  your  
body  somewhere  else,'  Daskalos  went  on,  'but  why  do  it  that  
way?   Why   not   construct   and   materialize   another   body   by   
drawing  energy  from  the  universal  ether?'  
'You  mean  you  can  suddenly  appear  in  front  of  me  "just  like  
that"?'  I  replied  smiling.  
'Exactly,'  Daskalos  replied  seriously,  as  if  this  were  a  most  
common  phenomenon.  'You  can  see  me  and  shake  hands  with  
me,  talk  to  me  as  if  I  were  physically  present.  But  I  can  only  
materialize   myself   when   the   masters   from   above   permit   it.   
There  has  to  be  a  serious  reason.  I  would  not  even  have  to  
interrupt  what  I  might  be  preoccupied  with  at  the  moment.  
When  you  reach  a  certain  stage  of  superconsciousness  you  can  
express  yourself  in  several  places  simultaneously.'  
'Have  you  had  such  experiences?'  
'Yes,  many  times.'  
'How  were  you  able  to  verify  to  yourself  that  they  were  real  
experiences?' 
'People  saw  me  and  then  came  to  ask  me  questions.  I  have  
had   repeated   experiences   of   this   type.'   Upon   my   probing,   
Daskalos  proceeded  to  narrate  such  an  experience.  
'One  day  I  was  writing  a  letter  when  I  felt  that  someone  in  
Karpasia,  seventy  miles  away,  was  in  distress  and  was  planning  
to   commit  suicide.  I  received  his  vibrations  subconsciously.  I  
saw  him  leave the  coffeeshop  and  walk  slowly  towards  the  pier.  
His  intention was to  throw  himself into  the  sea.  It  was  a  stormy  
day.  High  winds  were  blowing  and  waves  were  crashing  over  
the pier.  In the  few  minutes  it    took  him  to  reach  his  destination,  
I  learned  everything  about  him  and  the  reasons  that  drove  him  
to   the  brink  of  suicide.  By  coordinating  myself  with  his  mind  I  
discovered   that   he   was   married   to   a   Greek   woman   from   
another  island   and  had   three  children   by  her.   Her  younger  
sister,  who  was  on  a  visit  to  Cyprus,  began  having  an  affair  

201 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
with  him.  She  was  prettier  and  more  seductive  than  his  wife.  
The  younger  sister  had  no  scruples  that the  man  she was  having  
the  affair  with  was  her  sister's  husband.  In  fact  she  wanted  him  
to   divorce  his  wife  and  then  marry her.  She  persuaded  him  to  
abandon  his  wife  and  children  and  follow  her  to  Greece.  His  
wife  knew  of  the  affair  and  of  their  plans  to  elope.  She  was  
desperate.  The  man,  not  knowing  what  to  do,   since  he  still  
loved  his  family,  decided,  like  a  fool,  to  put  an  end  to  his  life.  
This  is  what  came  to  me  in  those  few  moments.  You  see,  one  
must  first  develop  the  ability  to  feel  and  get  information  in  a  
single  moment  that  would  normally  require  hours  of  conver-
sation.   As   an   invisible   helper   you   know   instantly   what   is   
happening  to  a  person  and  you  act  with  speed.'  
'Had   you   never   seen   nor   met   these   people   before   this   
episode?'  I  asked.  
'Never.' 
'Why  should  these  impressions  come  to  you?'  
'I   am  not  sure.  Most  likely  other  forces  implanted  them  so  
that  I  would  intervene  and  save  his  life.  I  had  to  act  quickly.  
There  was  no  time  to  waste.  I  materialized  myself  at the  edge  of  
the  pier  and  suddenly  appeared  in  front  of  him.  I  stood  there  
dressed  in  my  white  robe.  I  raised  my  hands  and  cried  out,  
"What  are  you  doing?"  He  looked  at  me  in  a  state  of  shock  
and  turned  pale.  He  could  not  believe  his  eyes.  How  could  a  
man  appear  from  the  middle  of  nowhere  on  the  edge  of  the  pier  
splashed  by  waves  in  that  most  tempestuous  night?   "I  don't  
know  what  to  do,"  he  muttered.  "Go  back  to  your  wife  and  
children,"  I  commanded,  "and  send  the  other  woman  away."  
He  covered  his  eyes  with  his  hands,  turned  around  and  walked  
away.  I  then  dematerialized  instantly.  He  soon  sent his  sister-in-
law  back  to  Greece  and  lived  peacefully  with  his  family.  
'Several  months  later  some  friends  asked  the  man  to  drive  
them  to  Nicosia  to  visit  the  "Magus  of  Strovolos."  His  friends  
were  afraid  their  child  had  epilepsy.  They  were  wrong.  The  
child  had  worms  in  the  bowels.  We healed  the  child.  When  they  
came  to  the  house  my wife  opened  the  door.  I  was  sitting  in  my  
study  when   they  brought  the  child  there.   I   happened   to   be   
wearing  my  white  robe  that  day.  When  he  saw  my  face  he  
started  to  choke  and  began  to  tremble.  "What  is  it?"  I  said.  
"Was  it  you?"  he  asked.  I  told  him  to  keep  silent  and  that  we  

202               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
would  talk  later  privately.  When  I  finished  with  the  child  I  took  
him  by  the  arm  and  we  went  into  another  room.  "Now,"  I  
said,  "you  are  with  your  wife  and  children.  Everything  is  fine,  is  
it   not?  You  sent  the  other  woman  away."  He  embraced  me  and  
began  to  cry.  "I  thought  you  were  an  angel  sent  by  God  to  save  
my   life   for   the   love   of   my   children,"   he   said   in   tears.   1   
explained  the  nature  of  our  work  and  talked  about  the  invisible  
helpers.   "If   God,"   I   added,   "sends   angels   to   assist   human   
beings,  why  can  he  not  also  send  human  beings  to  assist  their  
own  brethren?"  That  fellow  became  one  of  our  most  dedicated  
students  in  the  circles  for  the  Research  of  Truth.  He  is  now  
living  with  his  family  in  South  Africa.  Their  children  are  grown  
up. 
'Based  on  my  own  experience,'  Daskalos  began  after  a  half-
hour's  break,  'I  could  identify  three  types  of  materialization.  
First,   the   invisible   and   tangible   materialization.   Second,   the   
visible   but   intangible   materialization.   Third,   the   visible   and   
tangible,  or  solid,  materialization.  The  first  type  involves  the  
construction  of  solid  but  invisible  substance.  It  is  the  form  of  
materialization  that  has  the  greatest  force  when  working  within  
the  three  dimensions.  You  can  move  objects,  for  example,  that  
would  normally  require  the  combined  strength  of  several  men,  
such  as  a  very  heavy  piece  of  furniture.  Yet  the  hand  or  the  
force   which   causes   the   movement   remains   invisible   to   the   
material  eye.  It  is  this  type  of  materialization  that  I  used  in  the  
case  that  you  know  about,  of  the  scissors.'  
in    that   episode,   Daskale,   could   someone   have   seen   your   
hand  pushing  the  scissors  from  the  top  of  the  chest?'  
'Probably  not.  It  was  invisible  but  tangible  materialization,  
the  type  which  is  at  work  in  the  seance  rooms  in  Europe.  The  
second  type  of  materialization,  that  is,  visible  but  intangible,  
has   no  power   to   affect   solid  objects.   You   may   see   a   hand   
floating  or  a  person  appearing  in  ghostly  form.  It  might  look  
like  a  mist  in  the  image  of  solid  matter.  Yet  you  can  pass  your  
hand   through   it   and  not   even   notice   it.   The   third   kind   of   
materialization  is  visible  and  solid.  It  is  not  always  the  most  
appropriate  or  desirable  because  it     can  harm  the  material  body.  
For  example,  if  you  construct  a  visible  and  tangible  materializ-
ation  of  your  body  from  a  distance  and  someone  hits  it,  the  
wound  will  appear  on  your  material  body  no  matter  how  far  

203 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
away  you  may  be.  Whatever  you  inflict  on  the  materialization  
will  be  transferred  to  the  body.  Actually  such  a  risk  exists  to  
some  extent  in  the  case  of  invisible  but  tangible  materializadon.  
That  is  why  one  should  make  sure  that  one  disconnects  the  
communication   between   the   materialization   and  one's   body.   
For  example,  if  you  materialize  on  a  battlefield  and  you  are  
invisible   you   must   disconnect   that   materialization   from   the   
etheric  of  your  body  so  that  bullets  that  may  pierce  it  will  not  
inflict  wounds  on  the  material  body.  
'There  are  also  ways  that  one  can  employ  to  disconnect  the  
communication    between   one's   body   and   a   materialization   
which  is  visible  and  tangible.  Once  that  is  achieved  nothing  can  
happen   to   one's   body,   otherwise   it   is   very   dangerous.   On   
several   occasions   1   failed   to   disconnect   my   body   from   my   
materialization    and   consequently    I    suffered   from    wounds    
inflicted  on  the  materialization.  One  night,  for  example,  I  was  
sitting  with  my  wife  in  our  living  room.  It  was  midnight  and  I  
began  to  feel  uneasy.  I  saw  that  one  hundred  miles  away  there  
was  a  ship  in  trouble.  It  was  a  small  boat  carrying  cargo  to  
nearby  countries.  One  of  the  two  masts  was  broken  and  the  
propeller  was  not  working  properly.  The  crewmen  were  trying  
desperately   to   maneuver   their   ship   in   the   right   direction.   I   
found  myself   there  on   time   to  be  of  help.  The  captain   was   
unable  to  keep  his  hands  steady  at  the  helm  so  I  materialized  
two  hands  in  order  to  help.  The  man  saw  them  and  wondered  
whether he  was  asleep  or  awake.  I  had  much  more power in  my  
hands  than  the  captain  did.  In  that  particular  case  I  applied  
both  the  visible  and  invisible  but  tangible  materializations.  He  
saw  my  hands  appear  and  reappear  over  and  over  again.  In  
reality,  however,  my  hands  were  always  there,  steadily  holding  
the  helm.'  
'How   did   you   manage   that?'   I   asked,   and   my   question   
provoked  laughter  from  Daskalos.  
'I   managed  to  do  it,  but  don't  ask  me  how.  The  water  you  
drink  is  transmuted  within  your  body  into  blood  and flesh. Can 
you  tell  me  how  that  is  done?  Yet  it    is  done.  I  partly  know  how  
materialization   is   accomplished,   not   through   knowledge   but   
through  action.  I  instinctively  know,  just  as  you  know  how  to  
drink water which later becomes blood.  In the case of materializa-
tion  tremendous  will  power  and  concentration  are  required.  

204               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
'When  the  danger  was  over,'  Daskalos  continued,  'I     thought  
of    returning  to  my  body.  The  crew  was  now  in  a  position  to  
steer  the  ship  into  the  harbor.  Suddenly  the  other  mast  crashed  
and   fell   on   the   deck   with   a   tremendous   roar.   1   was   fully   
materialized  but  my  body  was  still  invisible.  The  mast hit  me  in  
the  face.   There   was   no   disconnection   between   my   physical   
body,  which  was  in  a  trance,  and  my  materialization.  When  I  
woke  up  I  realized  that  my  mouth  was  bleeding  and  I  had  a  
terrible  headache.  
'When  we  leave  our  bodies  and  we  materialize  somewhere  
else,  we  must  close  the  door  behind.  We  must  disconnect  the  
body  from  the  materialization.'  
'But if    you  do  that,  is  it    not  as  if    you  die  in  a  way?  Must  you  
not,  of  necessity,  have  the  connection?'  I  inquired.  
'No.    You    have   the   connection    but   not   the   conscious   
connection.  When  you  leave your  body  you carry  with you,  as  I  
believe,  part  of  the  etheric  matter,  but  not  the  etheric-double.  
The  etheric-double  cannot  leave  the  body,  otherwise  it  will  die.  
When  you  are  outside  of  the  body  you  always  carry  some  of  the  
etheric  substance  with  you.'  
'Why?' 
'So  that  your  mind  will  be  connected  with  your  body.  So  
that  you  will  be  able  to  remember  and  return.  As  we  have  said  
many  times,  it     is  through  the  etheric  that  we  are  able  to  project  
elementals  of  thought  and  desire.  However,  if  you  carry  more  
etheric   than   you   need   for   the   return   trip,   the   connection   
between your  body  and  the  materialization  remains  wide open.' 
'When  you  say  that  you  were  fully  materialized  on  the  boat,  
you  were  invisible  to  the  others.  But  you  were  there  and  what  
hit  you  was  the  etheric  part  of  the  mast,'  I  commented.  
'No.  The  mast  itself  hit  me.'  
'But  if  you  were  invisible,  why  could  it  not  go  through  you  
without  hitting  you?'  
it   is  of  no  consequence.  I  am  still  affected.  I  said  that  when  
you  are  in  a  state  of  invisible  but  tangible  materialization,  you  
will  have  the effects  of  the  physical  body  unless  you take  special  
precautions.   It   is   the   same   with   the   visible   and   tangible   
materialization.  Only  with  visible  but  intangible  materialization  
will  there  be  no  effect.'  
'What  kind  of  measures  can  you  take  to  protect  your  body?'  

205 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
'While    away    you    disconnect   it   by    only   thinking    and    
impressing  in  your  subconscious  that  nothing  will  happen  to  
your  material  body.  You  say  to  yourself,  "No  matter  what kind 
of     experiences   L  will   undergo,   nothing   will   happen   to   my   
material  body."  Everything  is  worked  out  on  the  subconscious  
level.   The   subconscious   is   the   ruler   of   the   material   body.   
Whether  you  are  inside  or  outside  your  material  body,  you  can  
exercise   your   subconscious   to   accomplish   acts   that   appear   
superhuman.   For   example,   a   heavy   object   may   require   the   
power  of  several  people  before  it     can  be  moved.  Yet  if   I  put  you  
into  a  certain  trance  or  hypnotic  state  (there  are  many  levels  of  
trance  states)  you  may  be  able  to  lift  it  with  only  one  hand.  
How  so,  you  may  ask.  I  believe  the  work  is  actually  done  not  
by  your  hand  but  by  a  materialized  force  inside  it.  The  bones  
and  muscles  of the  individual hardly  play  a  role.  I  need  to  study  
this  phenomenon  further.  I  tell  you,  there  is  a  great  fascination  
for  me  in  exploring  further.  Yet  the  cry  of  pain  is  so  intense  
around  us  that  I  cannot  afford  the  time  to  satisfy my curiosity.' 
is   it  possible  for  a  great  master  to  dematerialize  someone  
else  and  rematerialize  him  somewhere  else?'  I  asked,  having  in  
mind  an  incident  that  Carlos  Castaneda  allegedly  experienced  
during  his  apprenticeship  with  Don  Juan.  
'Yes.  But  only  a  great  master  can  do  that.  Not just  a  master.  
Anyhow,  I  cannot  do  such  a  thing  myself.'  
'And  you  cannot  do  it  on  yourself,'  I  stated.  
'I   can  do  it  on  myself  if     I  want  to.  But  what  for?  Only  in  an  
extreme  emergency  would  I  do  such  a  thing.  If,  for  example,  I  
need  to  materialize  somewhere  and  it  would  be  unsafe  to  leave  
my  body  behind  because  others  might  destroy  it,  then  I  could  
dematerialize  it.'  
'Have  you  ever  done  so?'  
'No.  I  never  faced  such  an  emergency.  Suppose  I  must  travel  
a  long  distance  instantly  for  a  particular  purpose.  There  is  no  
reason  to  dematerialize  my  body  here.  I  can  materialize  a  body  
at    the  spot  where  I  want  to  be  by  drawing  etheric  energy  from  
the  source  itself  which  is  everywhere  in  the  universe.  You  do  
not  need  to  deplete  the  reservoir  of  existing  vitality  within  your  
body.' 
I  briefly  talked  to  Daskalos  about  the  work  of  Castaneda.  I  
specifically   mentioned   the   incident   described   in   one   of   his   

206               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
books   when   Don  Juan   supposedly   gave   a   sudden   push   to   
Castaneda  and  the  latter  instantly  found  himself  walking  two  
miles  away,  is  that  possible?'  I  asked.  
'Yes.   But   what  makes   you   think   that  Don  Juan   actually   
dematerialized  Castaneda's  body  and  then  rematerialized  it     two  
miles  away?  What  may  have  happened  could  be  that  Don Juan 
transplaced   Castaneda's   consciousness   and   made   his   body   
invisible  to  the  passersby.  It  is  not  necessary  to  dematerialize  a  
body  in  order  to  make  it  invisible.  Perhaps  the  master  placed  
the  body  of  his  student  on  a  chair  and  created  for  him  a  new  
etheric  body  two  miles  away  within  which  he  transplanted  his  
self-consciousness.   There   are   ways   that   you   can   make   a   
material  object,  even  a  human  body,  invisible  to  others.'  
'How   is   it   done?'    I   asked   somewhat   incredulously.   In   
Daskalos'  customary  manner,  he  began  answering  my  query  by  
narrating  a  story.  
'An  English  scientist  visited  me  once.  "I  have  been  to  India  
and was greatly  disappointed  and disillusioned,"  he  complained.  
"Why?"  I  asked.  "I  met  in  the  streets  a  half-naked  fakir  and  a  
small  boy  who  had  in  front  of  him  a  piece  of  rope  and  a  plate  
for  throwing  money  into.  About  twenty  people  gathered.  The  
fakir  began  to  play  a  tune  on  his  flute.  Suddenly  the  rope  got  
loosened  and  stood  vertically  on  itself  like  a  pole.  The  boy  then  
climbed  up  the  rope.  He  stood  there  a  few  minutes,  smiled,  
moved  his  hands,  and  then  stepped  down.  The  rope  began  to  
come  down  and  bundled  itself  up  again.  The  next  day  I  visited  
this  fakir  with  a  friend  of  mine.  We  brought  along  a  camera.  
When  the  same  episode  unfolded  we  took  photographs.  But  
when  we  developed  the  pictures  they  showed  that  the  boy  was  
sitting  on  the  ground  and  the  rope  remained  where  it     was.  This  
fakir  deceived  us  but  could  not  deceive  the  camera."  
'I   laughed  when  I  heard  his  story.  "Is  that  the  reason  why  
you  were  disappointed?"  I  asked  him.  "Why  did  you  not  study  
the  phenomenon  which  you  had  witnessed  twice with  your own 
eyes?  Why  did  you  not  raise  the  question  'how  come'?  What  
did  actually  happen?"  "I'll  think  about  it,"  he  said.  
'I   told  him  that  had  that  fakir  been  a  much  more  powerful  
yogi  he  could  have  literally  made  the  rope  move  up  and  climb  
on  it.   And  there  have  been  such  phenomena  that  have  been  
photographed.  I  explained  to  him  what  must  have  happened.  

207 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
"The  fakir  spread  his  aura  around  and  put  the  audience  inside.  
Then  he  began  to  think  intensely  and  he  created  with  his  mind  
all  those  images  you  were  'seeing'."  '  
i  suppose,  Daskale,'  I  said,  'he  was  creating  the  elemental  of  
the  child  climbing  the  rope.'  
'Exactly.  "Seeing"  means  that  light  hits  something,  bounces  
back   at   our   eyes   and,   via   the   optical   nerve,   provides   an   
irritation  at  a  particular  center  of  the  brain.  Therefore,  that  
fakir  was  able  to  create   this  irritation  on  that  center  of  the  
brain  of  those   in   attendance  through   his   method  of  intense  
concentration.  "Why  not  study  this  phenomenon  carefully,"  I  
further  suggested  to  the  Englishman,  "instead  of  dismissing  it  
as    a  trick?  Why  not  study  the  nature  of  thought,  of  concrete  
thought?  That  fakir  did  something  substantial  which  deserves  
serious  attention."  '  
'Why  can't  we  say,  Daskale,  that  the  fakir  hypnotized  his  
audience  and  made  them  "see"  things  that  never  happened?'  I  
suggested. 
'Hypnotism  is  a  different  phenomenon  altogether.  In  hypnot-
ism  the  hypnotist  uses  powerful  suggestions  through  words  or  
the  help  of  some  instrument,  to  an  audience  which  is  receptive  
and  cooperative.  This  fakir  used  the  power  of  his  thought  to  
influence  his  unaware  audience  telepathically  and  made  them  
"see"  things  that  did  not exist on  the  gross  material  plane.  1  am  
not  aware  of  any  conventional  hypnotist  who  can  do that.  If we 
want to  call  that hypnotism, fine. But  it    is  not  hypnotism  as  it    is 
commonly  understood,  or  misunderstood.'  
Daskalos  then  concluded  that  just  as  it  is  possible  to  make  
people   'see'   things   that   in   reality   do   not   exist,   it   is   also   
possible  through  a  siipilar  procedure  to  make  people  not  see  
objects  or  human  bodies  that  do  exist.  
'I   wonder  what  happened  to  the  English  scientist,'  I  mused.  
'He  went  back  to  India for  further  study,'  Daskalos  said with 
a  loud  laugh.  
'I   tell  you,'  Daskalos  continued,  'thousands  of  such  phenom-
ena   take   place   all   the   time,   in   Asia,   in   India,   in   Tibet,   
everywhere,  even  in  Greece.  I  met  a  Lama  in  Athens  who  can  
make  a  body  invisible.  He  can  also train  people  to  levitate  after  
they  pay  a  certain  amount  of  money.  I  am  personally  against  
this.  A  student  of  mine  paid  three  hundred  pounds  in  order  to  

208               MATERIALIZATION  AND  DEMATERIALIZATION  
learn  how  to  levitate.  This  Lama  isolated  a  group,  including  my  
student,  for  fifteen  days  with  no  contact  with  the  outside.  They  
ate    and    drank    whatever   he    gave    them.    They    meditated    
continuously,  using  a  specific  mantra,  and  on  the  fifteenth  day  
most  of  them  levitated.  He  semi-hypnotized  them  during  this  
period  of  isolation,  cultivating  in  their  subconscious  the  belief  
that  they  could  succeed  in  levitating.  It  is  the  subconscious  that  
makes  levitation  possible.  This  Lama  succeeded,  but  in  what?  
Levitating  a  few  moments  on  the  air  and  then  down  again.  
What for?  I  told  my  student  that  she  just  wasted  three  hundred  
pounds.  She  could  have  helped  so  many  people  in  need  instead  
of    satisfying  her  curiosity.'  
I  commented  that  with  levitation  the  laws  of  the  material  
universe  are  reversed.  I  asked  Daskalos,  wondering  about  it,  
whether  what  is  involved  in  levitation  is  similar  to  the  manner  
with  which  a  rocket  is   being  propelled,  that  is,  through  the  
consumption  of  energy.  'No,'  he  said.  'In  levitation  the  body  
becomes  lighter  than  air.  
'When  you  implant  within  your  subconscious  that  kind  of  
faith,  you  literally  can  accomplish  so-called  miracles,'  Daskalos  
continued.  'That  was  what  Jesus  Christ  meant  when  he  said  
that  if     you  have  faith  equivalent  to  a  seed  of  mustard,  you  can  
move  mountains.  Believe  me  it  is  true.  "But  how  is  it  done?"  
someone  will  ask.  I  know  how  but  it  is  not  easy  to  teach  it  to  
others,  particularly  when  their  interest  is  nothing  more  than  
curiosity.' 
'You   mean,   Daskale,   you   can   move   mountains?'   I   said   
jokingly. 
'Why  should  I?  Why  not  go  over  the  mountains?  It is  a  more  
practical  way,'   Daskalos   replied,   laughing.   'All   I   am   really   
doing  is   harnessing   and   employing  certain  forces  in  Nature  
unknown  to  ordinary  people.'  
I  realized  that  I  had  been  talking  to  Daskalos  for  several  
hours.  His  eleven-year-old  granddaughter  came  into  the  room  
and   announced   that   her   mother   was   getting   impatient.   She   
expected  Daskalos  to  go  over  to  their  house  for  certain  errands.  
The  girl  sat  on  her  grandfather's  lap  as  I fired my  last question. 
Daskalos  had  jokingly  said  to  some  of  the  other  students  one  
day  that  I  was  an  incurable  interrogator.  I  never  stop  asking  
questions   even   in   the   psychic   plane   where,   he   said,   'We   

209 MATERIALIZATION AND DEMATERIALIZATION 
frequently  meet  and  have  lessons.'  
'I   often  wonder,'  I  said,  'how  enjoyable  and  fascinadng  it  
must  be  to  do  all  the  wondrous  things  you  say  you  are  doing;  
leaving  your   body,   materializing,   dematerializing....   Had   I   
been  able  to  have  such  experiences  myself,  the  world  would  
have   been   a   really   magical   place   to   be,   a   true   "enchanted   
garden."  '   Daskalos   was   silent   for   a   few   moments   as   he   
pondered    my    question    while    caressing    the    hair    of    his    
granddaughter. 
'When  I  was  a  young  man,  these  experiences  were  giving  me  
great  fascination,  great  pleasure.  I  remember  I  used  to  travel  to  
Africa  and,  from  the  other  side,  observe  and  study  beautiful  
exotic  flowers   and  trees.   One  day  I  spread   myself  over  the  
north  of  Canada,  near  the  Pole  and  I  saw  the  Eskimos  digging  
holes   into   the   ice   and   fishing.   I   had   never   known   that   
something   like   that   was   possible.    I   learned   about   it   in   
exomatosis.  When  1  was  younger  I  used  to  experiment  a  lot.  I  
wanted  to  learn  more  and  my curiosity  would  often  get me  into  
trouble.    These    experiences    were    fascinating    to    me.    But    
something  which  used  to  give  me  great  pleasure  as  a  young  
man   might  not   give   me   as  great  a   pleasure  now.  With   the   
course  of  time  one  realizes  new values  in  life.  Instead  of  finding  
satisfaction  in  seeing,  perceiving  and  enjoying  new  phenomena,  
I  now  find  great  joy  in  being  of  service  to  my  fellow  human  
beings.    I    now   set   aside   what   is   purely   pleasurable   and   
preoccupy   myself  primarily   with   what   is   necessary   to   help   
alleviate  the  pain  about  me.'  

14 
Afterthoughts 
Two  years  had  passed  since  the  summer  of  1981  when  I  last  
saw  Daskalos.  By January,  1983,  he  had  fallen  seriously  ill.  He  
had  several  operations  on   his  right  foot  and  was  bedridden.  
One  of  his  close  disciples,  a  fifty-year-old  housewife,  informed  
me  on  the  phone  that  Daskalos'  days  were  sadly  numbered.  
The  wound  on  his  foot  would  not  heal.  
In   June  of  1983,  as  soon  as  the  academic  year  was  over,  I  
flew   to  Cyprus.  The   day  after  my  arrival,  still  struggling  to  
adjust  from  the  dizziness  of  an  eight-hour  time  lag,  I  visited  
Daskalos  at  Strovolos.  Under  my  arm  I  had  the  manuscript  of  
this  book  which  was  almost  completed.  
I  softly  knocked  at  the  half-open  door  trying  not  to  create  
noise  in  case  he  was  asleep.  There  seemed  to  be  nobody  home.  
'Come  on  in,'  I  heard  his  voice.  I  entered,  closed  the  door  
behind  me  and  walked  towards  the  bedroom.  
'Welcome,'  Daskalos  said,  smiling  as  he  extended  his  hand  
towards  me.  He  was  lying  in  bed  wearing  only  his  undershirt  
and  the  lower  part  of  his  pajamas.  It  was  mid-June  and  the  
temperature  was  beginning  to  soar.  His  right  foot  was  bundled  
up  in  gauze.  I  shook  hands,  bent  down  and  kissed  him  on  both  
of    his  unshaven  cheeks.  
'I   was  told  you  were  in  serious  trouble,'  I  said,  'and  I  have  
come  to  see  you.'  
'Oh...  they   don't   know   what   they   are   talking   about,'   
Daskalos  replied  and  waved  his  hand  with  impatience.  'I  am  
fine.  The  Karma  has  been  paid.  I  promise  you  that  in  one  week  
I  will  be  on  my  feet.'  
I   was   not   sure  whether  Daskalos   was   trying   to   give   me   
encouragement  or  whether  he  meant  what  he  said.  Kostas,  with  
whom  I  talked  on  the  phone  a  while  ago,  complained  with  
exasperation  that  Daskalos  was  reckless  and  did  not  take  his  
illness  seriously.   But  Daskalos   seemed  far  from  being  at  the  
210 

AFTERTHOUGHTS 
211 
threshold  of  death  as  I  had  been  led  to  believe.  His  spirits  were  
high,    ever    ready    for    endless    conversations    and    hilarious    
anecdotes. 
'How  did  you  manage  to  stay  in  bed  for  so  many  months?'  I  
asked,  trying  to  match  his  lighthearted  frame  of  mind.  
'Who  told  you  I  was  in  bed  for  all  these  months?'  Daskalos  
replied  with  raised  eyebrows.  'Believe  me  had  I  remained  in  bed  
for  six  months  I  would  have  gone  mad.  My  body  was  in  bed.  I  
have  been  out  of  it  most  of  the  time.'  
'I   see ...,'  I  said,  and  smiled.  'Daskale,'  I  went on,  'I    am  just  
about  done  with  the  book.  Here  it  is.'  
He  took  the  manuscript,  read  the  title  and  flipped  the  pages  
for  a  few  seconds.  'You  said  you  were  going  to  do  it  and  you  
did,'  he  murmured  and  handed  it    back  to  me.  1  did not  think  he  
cared  to  read  it  but  he   asked  for  a  copy  as  soon  as  it  was  
published.  I  asked  him  why  he  had  not  bothered  to  put  his  
teachings  on  paper  himself  and  waited  for  an  academic  'idler'  
like  myself  to  do  so.  Daskalos  responded  that  he  had  more  
important  tasks  to  attend  to  in  this  life  than  writing  books.  
'Besides,'  he  went  on,  'that  is  your  job.'  He  then  talked  of  his  
illness   and   the   operations   that   he   had   to   go   through.   The   
surgeon  had  already  amputated  one  of  his  toes  and  it  was  a  
toss-up  whether  his  leg  would  be  spared.  He  was  under  strict  
orders  not  to  put  any  pressure  on  his  leg  and  to  remain  in  bed  
for  an  indefinite  period,  until  the  wound  healed.  
Before   1   had   a   chance   to   ask   more   questions   about   his   
condition  and  the  issue  of  healing  in  general,  two  nurses  came  
to   the  house.  I  assumed  they  had  arrived  to  attend  to  Daskalos'  
medical  needs.  Instead  they  had  come  for  a  lesson,  not  on  the  
world  beyond,  but  for  a  more  mundane  task,  to  get  instruction  
in   the  English  language!  In  exchange  for  the  good  care  the  two  
nurses took of Daskalos during his hospitalization he volunteered 
to   give  them  language  lessons  so  that  they  could  continue  their  
training  in  England.  
When  I  went  to  Strovolos  the  following  morning,  he  was  
sitting  in  bed  freshly  shaven.  Next  to  him  there  was  Marios  
wearing   his    roller   skates    and    attentively    listening   to    his    
grandfather's  fairy  tales.  Now  in  his  seventh  year,  Marios  had  
gone  through  a  cyst  operation  himself,  unusual  for  his  age,  and  
had  just  recovered.  I  sat  on  a  chair  waiting  and  listening  to  

212 
AFTERTHOUGHTS 
Daskalos'  yarn.  Then  the  boy  noisily rolled out of the house  and  
rushed  into  the  neighborhood  to  play  with  friends.  
it    is   puzzling,'   I   commented,   'how   a   healer   has   to   go   
through  these  pains.   You  cure  others  but  not  yourself.   And   
Marios   had   to   go   through   the   excruciating   pains   of   an   
operation.  Why  could  you  not  heal  both  yourself  and  Marios?  
Why  the  need  for  surgery?  One  of  my  colleagues  in  America,'  I  
went  on,  'wishes  to  know  what  the  limitations  of  a  healer  are  
and   what   can   a   conventional   physician   do   that   a   healer   
cannot?' 
'Do  you  remember  what  I  said  to  you  sometime  ago?  That  I  
was  planning  to  assume  the  Karma  of  my  son-in-law?  There  it  
is,'  Daskalos  responded  smiling  and  triumphantly  pointing  at  
his  foot.  'Had  I  not  done  so  my  son-in-law  would  have  been  
dead  by  now,  believe  me!  Why  do  you  suppose  Marios  had  
such  an  unusual  operation?  He  also  took  upon  himself  part  of  
the  Karma  of  his  father.  I  diagnosed  my  grandchild's  illness  at a 
time  when  the  doctor  insisted  that  the  probability  of  the  child's  
having  such  a  complication  was  infinitesimal.  Then  the  tests  
showed  that  my  diagnosis  was  correct.  But  I  could  do  nothing  
to   cure  the  child.  He  had  to  go  through  the  suffering  of  the  
operation  because  karmic  laws  were  at  work.  As  for  myself  I  
could  employ  healing  powers,  even  in  the  condition  I  am  now,  
to   help  others  but  I  would  not  do  it     on  myself.  If  I  heal  myself  
now  before  the  karmic  debt  is  completely  exhausted,  the  illness  
will   automatically   be   transferred   onto   my   son-in-law.   To   
answer your  friend's  question,  therefore,  I  will  say  this.  There  is  
nothing  a  medical  doctor  can  do  that  a  healer,  who  is  master  of  
materialization    and    dematerialization,   cannot   do.    But   the   
limitations  of  the  healer  are  always  the  nature  of  the  patient's  
Karma.  No  matter  how  powerful  a  healer  may  be,  if  it  is  not  
permitted   by   Holy   Providence,   healing   will   not   take   place.   
Similarly,   a   medical   doctor   can   do   what   his   science   makes   
possible  for  him  to  do,  and  no  more.  But,  again,  he  can  heal  
only  if  Holy  Providence  allows  it.'  
'Why  was  it  necessary  to  take  up  the  Karma  of  your  son-in-
law?'  I  asked.  
'Because   his   Karma   was   too   heavy.   It   would   have   been   
impossible  to  bear  it     alone.  It  would  have  killed  him,'  Daskalos  
replied  and  repeated  some  of  the  ideas  he  mentioned  to  me  in  

AFTERTHOUGHTS 
213 
earlier  conversations   on   how   and   under  what  circumstances  
one  assumes  the  Karma  of  another.  Then  he  proceeded  to  state  
that  in  the  case  of his  son-in-law  he  employed  'spiritual  healing'  
as    distinct  from  'psycho-therapy'  or what  people commonly  call  
'psychic  healing.'  I  mentioned  that  it  was  the  first  time  I  had  
heard  of  such  a  distinction  and  urged  him  to  elaborate.  
in   psychic  healing  the  psychotherapist  transfers  energy  from  
his  own  etheric-double  to  that  of  the  patient  with  the  wish  that  
he  be  cured.  In  such  a  case  most  of  the  Karma  of  the  patient  is  
already  exhausted  and  therefore  healing  is  easy.  Anybody  can  
become   a   psychic   healer.   In   spiritual   healing,   on   the   other   
hand,  the  healer  shares  the  Karma  of  the  patient  and  suffers  as  
a  result.  My  grandson  went  under  the  surgeon's  lancet  to  save  
his  father.  I  have  stayed in  bed  for over six  months  for the same 
reason.  One  never  pays  for  someone  else  unless  one  volunteers  
to    do  so.   And   the  force  that  prompts  one   to   shoulder  the  
burden  of  another  is  always  love.'  
is   it  possible,'  I  asked,  'for  one  to  take  up  the  Karma  of  
another  without  being  aware  of  it?'  
'No! You share the  Karma of another only superconsciously.' 
'But  I  thought  you  said  to  me  sometime  ago  that  one  can  in  
fact  take  up  the  Karma  of  a  beloved  one  subconsciously.'  
'Yes,  one  could  do   that,   but  not  in   therapy.  In  spiritual  
healing  the  therapist  is   fully  conscious  of  what  he  is   doing   
through  his  superconsciousness.'  
After  further   questioning  on   my  part  Daskalos  explained  
that  in  the  case  of  Mrs  Katina,  the  patient  suffering  from  her  
spine,  he  employed  'simple'  methods  of  psychic  healing.  In  her  
case  Daskalos  did  not  take  up  any  of  her  Karma.  It  was  the  
same  with  the  case  of  my  friend  Stelios.  Daskalos  claimed  that  
when   he   'transferred'   the   potentially   cancerous   gland   on   
himself   it   was   nothing   more   than   a   better   technique   of   
dematerializing  it.  He  did  not  shoulder  Stelios'  karmic  debts.  
'Let   me   demonstrate   what   I   mean   with   a   phenomenon,'   
Daskalos  said  abruptly.  'Remember  now  that  normally  I  am  
not  allowed  to  do  phenomena  but  I'll  make  an  exception.'  
I  saw  a  look  of  mischief  in  Daskalos'  face,  as  if  he  were  
abqpt  to  do  something  to  shake  me  out  of  my  wits.  I  stared  at  
him  for  a  few  seconds  not  knowing  what  to  expect.  
'The  doctor  said,'  Daskalos  went  on,  and  there  was  obvious  

214 
AFTERTHOUGHTS 
disrespect  in  his  voice  for  what  the  doctor  said,  'that  I  should  
remain   in   bed   and   never   step   on   my   right  foot   under   any   
circumstances  because  the  wound  would  open  up  again.  I  have  
not  been  out  of  this  wretched  bed  for  six  months.  Now  I  shall  
remove  this  Karma  from  myself  for  a  while.'  
Daskalos  closed  his  eyes  in  a  state  of  deep  meditation  and  
slowly  passed  his  hand  over  his  right  leg.  After  about  a  minute  
he  opened  his  eyes  and  without  the  slightest  of  reluctance  got  
out  of  bed.  
'What   are   you   going   to   do?'   I   mumbled   and   my   face   
dropped.   I   felt   that   Daskalos   was   about   to   do   something   
foolish.  My  intuition  did  not  fail  me.  He  stood  on  his  feet  and  
without  giving  me  time  to  breathe  he  began  hopping  around  
the  room  on  his  injured  leg.  
'Sit  down  for  God's  sake!'  I  shouted  and  felt  like  grabbing  
him  around  the  waist  and  forcing  him  back  to  bed.  Kostas'  
words  about  Daskalos'  recklessness flashed through  my  mind.  I  
thought  for  a  moment  that  perhaps  the  old  man  had  lost  his  
wits.  He  continued  hopping  around  the  room  for  about  half  a  
minute  with  a  smile  on  his  face  and  totally  oblivious  to  my  
agony  and  pleas  for  sanity.  Then  he  went  back  to  bed  and  lay  
down  as  if  nothing  had  happened.  
'Now  I  must  get  the  Karma  back,'  Daskalos  said  and  closed  
his  eyes.   He  breathed  deeply  for  several  seconds  and  slowly  
passed  his  hand  over  the  operated-on  leg.  After  a  minute  he  
opened  his  eyes.  
'Don't  worry,'  he  reassured  me  as  he  noticed  the  anxiety  in  
my  face.  'Nothing  happened  to  my  leg.  Now  that  the  Karma  is  
back  I  could  not  possibly  do  what  I  did  awhile  ago.  Do  you  
understand  now?'  
'I   have  a  hard  time,'  I  murmured  wryly  and  with  some  relief  
that  Daskalos'  histrionics  were  over.  There  seemed  to  be  no  
damage  to  his  foot.  
'You  should  have  seen  how  scared  Harry  Edwards  was  when  
he   was   initiated   into   our   circles   and   was   introduced   into   
spiritual    healing.'    Daskalos    went    on    and    giggled    as    he    
reminisced  about  the  Englishman.  
I first learned  of Harry  Edwards  one  day when  I  was  casually  
looking  at   a   pile  of  old   pictures   lying  on   top  of  Daskalos'  
dresser.  My  eyes  focused  on  a  fair,  Bridsh-looking,  stocky  man  

AFTERTHOUGHTS 
215 
in    his   fifties.   He   stood   in   the   Stoa   next   to   Daskalos   in   a   
meditative  position  among  others  of  Daskalos'  disciples.  When  
I  asked  him  who  the  fellow  was  he  explained  that  he  was  the  
well  known  (among  occultists)  British  psychic.  Edwards  visited  
the   island   for  his   initiation   into  Daskalos'   inner  circle.  The  
picture  was  taken  during  the  ritual.   It  was  dated  April   1st,   
1954.  When  I  returned  to  the  United  States  I  accidentally  came  
across   a   book   with   Harry   Edwards'   photo  portrait.   It   was   
identical  to  the  man  1  saw  in  Daskalos'  old  picture.  
'Daskale,'  I  went  on,  'my  colleague  in  America  has  several  
more  questions  that  he  would  like  answered.'  
'I   am  listening.'  
'He  was  puzzled  by  what  you  said  you  did  with  the  demon  
that protects your  flowers.  "How is it   possible,"  he  asked,  "that  
an  evil  spirit  could  be  transformed  into  a  benign  entity?"  '  
'Remember  what  I  told  you  before,  evil  in  reality  does  not  
exist.  Let  me  give  you  an  example.  Suppose  you mix water with 
soil  and  you  end  up  with  a  bad-smelling  mud.  It  is  a  temporary  
phenomenon.  Fire,  which  is  an  element  on  a  higher  level  than  
water,  by  generating heat,  will  transform  this  bad-smelling  mud  
into  pure  water  and  soil  again.  The  bad-smelling  mud  does  not  
exist   any   more.   Yet   the  water   and  the   soil   still   exist  in   a   
different  form.  Likewise  evil  is  a  temporary  phenomenon.  An  
evil  thought  or  an  evil  emotion  are  both  Mind  in  different  rates  
of    vibrations.  Higher  agents,  love  and  reason,  can  transform  
evil  thoughts  and  evil  emotions  again  into  pure  Mind  essence.  
You   see,  there  are  no  evil  men  in  reality.   They   are  human  
beings  whose  material  brains  combine  thoughts  and  emotions  
in   a  manner  that  resembles  something  like   the   bad-smelling   
mud.  Reason  and  love  can  change  all  that.  
'The  same  principle  applies  to  the  realm  of  the  so-called  evil  
spirits  or  demons.  According  to  the  Scriptures  evil  spirits  are  
fallen  angels.  If that  is  possible  why  then  can  we  not accept that 
these  evil  spirits  can  ascend  back  to  the  realm  of  the  angels?  If  
we  allow  to  humanity  the  idea  of  salvation  and  restoration,  
why  can  we  not  do  the  same  for  other  emanations  from  God?'  
'I   believe  your  explanation  will  satisfy  my  friend,'  I  added,  
^ut  he  has  another  question.  "Why  is  evil  necessary?"  '  
Daskalos  sat  carefully  on  his  bed  in  order  not  to  put  any  
strain  on  his  right  foot  and  prepared  to  answer  my  question.  

216 AFTERTHOUGHTS 
He  paused  for  a  few  seconds  and  then  continued.  
'A   painter  uses  various  colors  in  order  to  present  on  a  two-
dimensional    surface    a    landscape    of   the    three-dimensional    
world.   To  give   life   to  his  picture   and   the  sense  of  depth   a   
painter  would  use  the  black  color.  What  he  paints  does  not  
exist   on   the   three-dimensional   locality.   Yet   the   black   color   
provides  the  impression  of  a  three-dimensional  reality  on  the  
painting.  Likewise  the  idea  of  evil  is  necessary  to  give  to  the  
three-dimensional  world  of  matter   and  life  an   impression  of  
reality.  As  I  pointed  out to  you  in  our earlier  encounters, within 
the  gross  material,  psychic  and  noetic  worlds  one  experiences  
only  relative  reality.  These  dimensions  of  reality  which  offer  us  
the   sense   of   understanding   also   give   us   the   sense   of   evil,   
something  non-existent  in  ultimate  reality.  The  impression  of  
evil  exists  only  in  the  worlds  of  emotions  and  thoughts.'  
When  I  left  Daskalos'  house  that  day  he  assured  me  once  
more  that  the  Karma  had   been  paid  off  and  that  he  would  
begin  to  walk  within  a  week.  He  kept  his  promise.  When  I  
visited  him  six  days  later  he  was  in  his  studio  completing  a  
painting  he  had  begun  before  his  illness.  He  walked  carefully  so  
as    not  to  put  extra  weight  on  his   right  foot.   Days  later  his  
recovery  was  complete.  He  moved  about  at  a  normal  pace  and  
made  plans  for  his  annual  trip  to  Greece  to  give  lessons  at  his  
circles  in  Athens  and  Salonica.  The  Karma  of  his  son-in-law  
had  been  exhausted.  
I  spent  the  following  week  camping  out  and  spear  fishing  at  
Lara,  a  remote  beach  at  the  southwest  coast  of  the  island,  away  
from  tourists,  concrete  and  traffic.  I  was  with  Neophytos,  an  
American-trained  Cypriot  sociologist  and  former  colleague  at  
the  Cyprus  Social  Research  Centre.  In  between  breaks  from  our  
amateurish  and  fruitless  fishing  adventures  I  told  him  for  the  
first  time   about   my   research   activities   during   the   past   four   
years.  He  listened  with  fascination  to  my  story.  He  too  was  
aware  of  the  tales  told  of  the  'Magus  of  Strovolos,'  but  he  had  
never  met  him.  Like  myself  Neophytos  was  beginning  to  feel  
disillusioned  with  scientific  materialism  and  was  by  now  more  
willing  to  entertain  alternative  conceptions  of  reality.  
'Tell  me,'  my  friend  asked,  'do  you  believe  in  what  Daskalos  
is   teaching?  Has  your  life  changed  since  you  met  him?'  
it   is  not  the  first  time  I  have  been  asked  this  question,'  I  

AFTERTHOUGHTS 
217 
said,  'and  it     is  one that  I  often  raise  in  my  own  mind.  I  have  no  
easy  answers.'  
I   mentioned   how,   ever   since   meeting   Daskalos,   I   have   
puzzled  over  repeated  coincidences  that,  after  a  while,  forced  
me  to  wonder  whether  they  were  in  fact  coincidences.  I  then  
described   to   Neophytos   a   few   of   the   many   episodes   that   
puzzled  me.  
I  once  saw  Daskalos  in  a  dream  talking  to  me.  Suddenly  he  
disappeared.  I  turned  around  and  saw  him  walking towards  me  
from  behind.  When  I  met  him  the  following  morning  I  casually  
mentioned  that  I  had  seen  him  in  my  dream  the  night  before.  I  
gave  no  further details.  'Oh  yes,'  he  nodded,  'I    was  giving  you  a  
lesson  on  the  nature  of  space  in  the  fourth  dimension.'  
On  another  occasion  Daskalos  described  to  me  in  stunning  
detail  the  inside  of  our  house  in  Maine.  To  the  best  of  my  
knowledge  there  was  no  way  that  he  could  have  known  the  
details  of  our  home.  He  'visited'  us,  he  claimed,  many  times,  
particularly  when  I  thought  of  him  with  intensity.  
One  day,  Iacovos  and  I  were  searching  for  Daskalos  all  over  
Larnaca.  He  was  nowhere  to  be  found.  We  assumed  he  was  
already  at  Theano's  place  where  a  meeting  was  scheduled.  As  
we   walked   towards   her   house   I   humorously   remarked   to   
Iacovos  that  perhaps  he  visited  some  mistress  of  his  and  that  
was  why  we  could  not  find  him.  When  we  reached  Theano's  
place  Daskalos  was  there  surrounded  by  several  of  his  adepts.  
'Daskale,'   I   exclaimed,   'we   looked   all   over   town   for   you.   
Where  have   you   been?'   'At  my  mistress','   he   snapped   with   
sarcasm  and  laughter.  'I  heard  your  silly  chat,'  he  went  on  and  
continued  laughing.  
When  we  returned  to  America  Emily  began  having  severe  
pains  in  her  right  knee.   One  day  we  received  a  letter  from  
Iacovos.  He   suggested  that  Emily  visit  a  doctor  to  have  her  
right  leg  examined  because  he  and  Daskalos  'saw'  that  there  
was  something  wrong  with  her  right  knee!  He  reassured  us  that  
he   and  Daskalos  were  working  on   her  but  that  she   should   
consult   a   physician   in   any   case.   We   had   never   mentioned   
anything  to  anybody  in   Cyprus  about  this  problem.  Emily's  
paiqj  were  gone  in  a  few  days  after  receiving  Iacovos'  letter.  
She  never  went  to  a  doctor.  
I  went on  to  mention  to  Neophytos an  incident that  occurred  

218 
AFTERTHOUGHTS 
the  day  before  I  boarded  the  plane  for  Cyprus.  A  colleague  at  
the  University  of  Maine,  a  hellenist,  brought  to  my  attention  
the   ancient   meaning  of   my   name.   I   had   assumed   it   was   a   
derivative   of   'kyrie,'   meaning   'lord'   as   in   'Kyrie   Eleison'   
chanted  in  church  services.  'Not  so,'  my  friend,  an  expert  on  
classical  Greek,  assured  me.  He  sent  me  to  the  Liddell  and  Scott  
Greek-English   Lexicon.   Based   on   a   Greek   magical   papyrus   
discovered  in  Egypt  it     said  that  'Kyriacos'  was  'a  spirit  invoked  
in   magic.'  
'One  thing that  I  am  certain  of  about  Daskalos,'  I  said to  my  
friend,  'is  that  he  has  extraordinary  powers  at  diagnosing  and  
healing  illnesses.  Through Daskalos', I  went on,  'I    have  come  to  
recognize   in   a   more   concrete   manner   what   philosophers,   
mystics,   some  contemporary  physicists   and  brain  researchers  
have  been  saying,  that  mind has  power  over matter.  It is  not the 
other  way  around  as  materialists  of  all  political  and  scientific  
colorations  have  been  insisting  over  the  last  two  hundred  years  
with  so  much  ferocity  and  religious  zeal.  
'As  for  the  details  of  the  teachings,'  I  said,  'I  cannot  make  
any  statement.  I  remain  a  Doubting Thomas,  but  one  who  is  at  
least  ready  to  place  his  fingers  on  the  scars  of  the  Master  to  
examine  and  experience  their  authenticity.  
if     you    are    honest    with    yourself,'    I    continued,    'it    is    
impossible  to  be  exposed  to  Daskalos  for  a  long  time  and  not  
wonder   about   the   possibility   that   the   observable   empirical   
world  may  be  indeed  a  hierophany,  an  expression  of  a  higher  
reality  hidden  from  ordinary  consciousness.'  
I   then   cited   a   quotation   from   Philip   Slater,   a   sociologist   
turned  mystic,  that  'all  the  errors  and  follies  of  magic,  religion,  
and   mystical   traditions   are   outweighted   by   the   one   great   
wisdom  they  contained  —  the  awareness  of  humanity's  organic  
embeddedness  in  a  complex  natural  system.'  it  is  imperative,'  I  
said  to  my  friend,  'that  this  awareness  becomes  the  motif  of  
everyday   consciousness.    The    very    survival    of    humankind    
depends  on  it.'  
Neophytos  puffed  his  pipe  a  few  times  and  gazed  at  the  sea,  
pondering  what  we  had  been  discussing  over  the  last  few  days.  
'I   would  like  to  meet  Daskalos,'  he  said  with  determination,  
as    if  suddenly  overcoming  a  childhood  taboo.  
When  I  introduced  them  to  one  another  Daskalos  burst  into  

AFTERTHOUGHTS 
219 
laughter.   Neophytos   stood   with   wide   open   eyes   for   a   few   
seconds  as  he  discovered  that  his  deceased  father,  a  venerated  
judge,  was  a  close  friend,  secret  disciple  and  a  first  cousin  of  
Daskalos.  The  'Magus  of  Strovolos'  was  my  friend's  uncle!  
Before  leaving  Cyprus  I  went  to  bid  farewell  to  Daskalos.  He  
kissed  me  on  the  forehead  and  murmured  a  prayer  as  he  made  
the  sign  of  the  cross  over  my  head.  
'Whenever  you  need  me,'  he  said  reassuringly,  'think  of  me  
intensely  and  I  will  be  with  you.'  
'I'll  do  that,'  I  said,  and  got  into  the  taxi  for  the  one-hour  
drive  to  Larnaca  airport.  

Glossary 
Chakras      Psychonoetic  centers  on  the  etheric-double  of  the  individual.  
It    is  through  the  chakras  that  the  human  personality  absorbs  etheric  
vitality    for    its    maintenance.    Through    appropriate    discipline    and    
meditation   exercises   the   mystic   tries   to   open   his   chakras   for   the   
acquisition   of   psychonoetic   powers.   To   a   clairvoyant   the   chakras   
appear  like  revolving  discs.  
Elementals     Thought    forms.    Any    feeling   or    any    thought   that   an   
individual  projects  is  an  elemental.  They  have  shape  and  a  life  of  their  
own  independent  of  the  one  who  projected  them.  
Etheric-double      The   energy  field  that   keeps   the  three   bodies   of   man   
(the   gross   material,   psychic   and   noetic)   alive   and   linked   to   one   
another.   Each   particle  of  man's   body  has   its  corresponding  etheric-
double.  It  is etheric  vitality  that  makes  healing possible.  The  universe  is  
filled  with  etheric  energy.  It  can  be  transferred  from  one  individual  to  
another,  and  it  is  absorbed  through  the  chakras.  
Exomatosis     The   ability   to   willfully   abandon   one's   body,   live   fully   
conscious  within  the  psychonoetic  dimensions  and  then  return  back  to  
the  body.  It  implies  remembering  whatever  one  experiences  in  the  out-
of-the-body  state.  
Gross   material   body      One    of   the   three    bodies   that   make   up    the    
present   self-conscious   personality.   The   material   body   of   man.  That  
part  of  one's  personality  that  lives  within  the  gross  material  world,  the  
three-dimensional  world.  The  lowest  expression  of  self.  The  center  of  
the  gross  material  body  is  the  chakra  of  the  solar  plexus.  
Higher   noetic   world     The   world   of    ideas,    of   the   archetypes.   The   
world    of    causes    and    laws    that   provide    the    foundations    of    all    
phenomenal  reality.  
Holy    Monad     The   component   parts   of   the   Absolute.    Each    Holy    
Monad    emanates    myriads    of    rays    that    pass    through    different    
220 

GLOSSARY 
221 
archetypes  and   acquire  shape   and  phenomenal  existence.  When  one  
such  irradiation  passes  through  the  Idea  of  Man  a  human  personality  
is   constructed.  Humans  who  belong  to  the  same  Holy  Monad  have  a  
particular  affinity  for  one  another.  
Holy   Spirit      The   impersonal   superconsciousness   which   expresses   the   
power  of  the  Absolute,  making  the  creation  of  the  universe  possible.  
The  dynamic  part  of  the  Absolute.  
Holyspiritual      That   which   pertains   only   to   the   Holy   Spirit.   Animals   
live  within  a  holyspiritual  state.  They  lack  the  logoic  expression  of  the  
Absolute,  that  is,  they  lack  self-consciousness.  Man  is  both  logoic  and  
holyspiritual. 
Idea   of   Man      An   eternal   archetype   within   the   Absolute.   Once   an   
emanation  of  a  Holy  Monad  passes  through  the  Idea  of  Man,  human  
existence  begins.  
Invisible     helpers      Masters    who     live     on     the    psychic    and     noetic     
dimensions  and  are  invisible  to  material  eyes.   Also  masters  who  live  
within  the  gross  material  dimension  but  who  carry  out  exomatosis  and  
assist  humans  living  within  the  gross  as  well  as  the  other  dimensions.  
Karma     The   law   of   cause   and   effect.   The   sum   total   of   a   person's   
actions,  thoughts  and   feelings  that  determine   his  successive  states  of  
existence.  A  person  is  fully  responsible  for  the  creation  of  his  Karma,  
his   destiny.   The   attainment   of   Theosis   implies   transcending   one's   
Karma. 
Law   of  cause   and   effect        See    Karma.    
Logos      The  part  of  the  Absolute  that  makes  possible  the  existence  of  
self-consciousness  and  free  will.  As  eternal  entities  men  are  both  logoic  
and  holyspiritual.  Animals  are  only  holyspiritual.  Jesus  as  the  Christ  
Logos  represents  the  most  complete  expression  of  the  logoic  nature  of  
the   Absolute.  The  more   spiritually  advanced   a  human  entity   is,   the   
more  the  logoic  part  in  him  is  dominant.  
Mind     The  means  by  which  the  unmanifest  Absolute  expresses  Itself.  
Mind    is    the   supersubstance    by   which    all   the    universes,    all   the   
dimensions  of  existence,  are  constructed.  Everything  is  Mind.  
Noetic  body      One  of  the  three  bodies  that  makes  up  the  present  self-
conscious  personality.  The  body  of  thoughts.  The  noetic  body  exists  

222 
GLOSSARY 
within  the noetic world,  the  fifth  dimension.  Its  image is    identical  with  
the other two bodies. The center of the noetic body is   the chakra of the 
head. 
Noetic  world    The  fifth  dimension.  Within  the  noetic  world,  space  as  
well  as  time  are  transcended.  A  human  entity  living  within  the  noetic  
world can  travel  instantly, not  only  over vast  distances  but  also  across  
time. 
Permanent   personality    That   part   of   ourselves   upon   which   the   
incarnational  experiences  are  recorded  and  are  transferred  from  one  
life  to  the  next.  Our  inner  self.  
Present  personality    What  is  commonly  known  as  the  personality  of  
the  individual.  It     is  made  up  of  the  noetic,  psychic  and  gross  material  
bodies.  The  present  personality  is  the  lowest  expression  of  ourselves  
which   is   constantly   evolving   and   tends   to   become   one   with   the   
permanent  personality.  
Psychic  body    One  of  the  three  bodies  that  constitutes  the  present  
self-conscious  personality. The  body  of  feelings  and  sentiments  having  
as    its  center  the  chakra  of the heart.  The psychic  body  lives  within  the  
psychic  world,  the  fourth  dimension.  Its  image  is  identical  with  the  
other  two  bodies,  the  gross  material  and  the  noetic.  
Psychic world    The  fourth  dimension.  Within  the  psychic  world  space  
is  transcended.  An  individual  living within the psychic world can travel 
instantly  over  vast  distances.  
Sacred  discs     See  Chakras.  
Soul    That  part  of  ourselves  which  is  pure  and  uncolored  by  earthly  
experience.   The   soul   is   beyond   the   Idea   of   Man,   beyond   all   
manifestation.  It  has  never  been  born  and  it     will  never  die.  It  is  that  
part  of  ourselves  which  is  qualitatively  identical  with  the  Absolute.  
The  soul  is  our  divine  essence,  unchangeable  and  eternal.  
Theosis    The  final   stage   in   the   evolution   of   the   self   after   it  has  
undergone  the  experience  of  gross  matter  through  successive  incar-
nations.  Re-unification  with  the  Godhead.  
World  of ideas     See  Higher  noetic  world.  