Stylianos Atteshlis Daskalos - The Etheric Double of Our Material Body 2 -13 02 1990 So, when you see an epileptic, touch with your fingers on the body where is the liver or the spleen and that entity has to leave the body. So, now we know about the centers, the main centers. I will mention now the big incised centers, the smaller incised centers and the very small centers. The big incised centers is at the base of the spine, what we call the sacral fire, covered by ruffle and microbe. Another big center is the solar plexus. Another big center is the heart. Another big center is at the root of the nose and another one above the head as a disc. These are the big centers which give us our qualities, the qualities of the present and the personality as subconsciousness, consciousness and self-consciousness at the beginning, later giving, what we call, self-superconsciousness, which is not indetectable, but extends to the other bodies. The smaller incised are the spleen, the liver, under the arms. We have them four. And two above the shoulders. For this, I am not allowed to speak more. These side centers are centers of energy for the material body, while the central column, the symbol of life, is what concerns our present-day personality. So we said the colors depend upon the development of that present-day personality. Where is our present-day personality living? In the body. Now we shall just try to understand what is our present-day personality. What is our so- called present-day personality? Is our present-day personality really our self? Or we make the mistake that it is our self, as we make the mistake that we are our bodies. Our so-called present-day personality is the sum total of the elementals, who have created, projected, and had them back. Where? In our bodies, definitely. And our present-day personality is in the material body, in the so-called psychical body, and in the lower mind body. We are using subconsciously the three bodies. The material body, we know. The psychical body, its vibrations, the quality of the vibrations, is what is giving us our desires, and our emotions, and our expressions. So everyone is using the psychical body subconsciously, without knowing even of its existence. So our psychical body, in manifestation, are our emotions, and our desires, our weaknesses, our passions, all that compose our psychical body. Not in form, but in quality. So have this in your mind. What about our neurotic body? Our lower mental body? That's also part of our present- day personality. The way we are thinking, how are we thinking? Hot use of our mind, super-substance, we are doing. And I said in a lesson that we make the mind slave of the emotions, of the passions, of the desires. We make very bad use of the mind. And all the elementals created in this way are what we call the elementals' desire-thought elementals. They are mentioned in the Bible by Christ as evil spirits. What we should do after using the mind properly as a reason, we as present-day personality, to study and check our emotions, our desires, the whole behavior, hatred, enmity, feeling of aggressiveness, revenge, and all those qualities of our psychical body. How do we do that now? By making better use of the mind. Instead of making the mind slave of the emotions, and how to serve for the accomplishment of the emotions and the desires, now we check through the mind. We, that means checking whom? Ourselves, the egos, who present themselves as ourselves, while we are not that kind of force, self. So we now get the control and we use the mind as the means to know, to check, to criticize, to find the nature of our emotions, that means of the elementals already in our subconsciousness. And we come to what conclusion now? That our present-day personality was composed of those elementals, and I was making the mistake to think that I am that present-day personality. Then what do I find? That present-day personality is all the time changing, as the material bodies are changing. Yet I am not changing. What is changing in time and in place or space cannot be myself, my real self. But I make the mistake that I am that personality, and that personality is just the thought of being the body, a name, sex, and the way of feeling and thinking. But checking all that now, studying all that now, I find that I am in a changed center of self- consciousness, able to exercise my divine quality as will to know, learn, and control. And that's not changing. So, I classify my lower self now in two classes. The changeable in time and space, and I find that time is an illusion, Zeit is eine Illusion, creating shadows in what we call time as an illusion, which is the past. I have now the present moment, which will be the past after a few moments. And what is to come as the present moment, which is undefined, and we call it future. What do you find in that? There is also a reality behind these illusions, past, present, and future. The eternal now. Eternity. Eternity is not an illusion. And what else I found by my research, and everybody will find it, that apart from the illusions of time and space, we are the self, the real self, not egoism, which is the creation of time and space, since time and space are illusions, that means egoism is an illusion, because egoism is changing every time. So, now we start understanding who we are. Now, I see the composition of our present day personality as it is today. The backbone is eternal. It's God. It's myself. But the backbone of it is I. And then, the other expressions, is the present day personality in its expressions, and quality. The backbone is the same word. I am. The expressions? I am George, Alex, Mary, Alice, that's the expressions. I am God. Or, I am I. The knowledge that I am I, you cannot be a male or a female person. So we find that reality. We are not the personality we thought we were, which was the creation of time and space, which is an illusion. And therefore, that present personality is an illusion. So tell me, how will we come to this conclusion, that we are an illusion? The illusion will prove you that you are an illusion. If you remember your past personalities, before many, many centuries, believing to reincarnation, and you find that now, you are George. But maybe you are Ahmed. Different way of thinking, different emotions, similar, but different. And then, you see, if you can see the whole life you have passed, you say, but, who am I, that person? What common thing do I have with that personality of the past? You may see many, many incarnations. You will see certain similarities in expression, yet many, many differences. And if I put you the question, who am I? Oh, I am George. You are George. Now that you know who you were in the past incarnations, what you are interested about? That behavior in time and space. What was common with those incarnations to you? I am. Good. So you don't care about Ahmed, or Robert, or Marius. And then you find that the past is a kind of dream. But that's not what you'll find. If you just start studying things, you'll find that you, you are you, of yesterday, before yesterday, six months back, a year back, yesterday. What's the reality? That you are you. So even now you can find your present personality, but you have to take off that dress you call personality. A name, and a way of feeling and thinking. Because what really counts is that I-ness, your ego, which is God. Consubstantial with the absolute beingness. Consubstantial with the locus, as manifestation. So, then you find that you are not what you thought you were, but you are something different now. I see many people having a kind of fear. Huge fear. If they have much, and they rely on that much, they have riches, possessions, fame, glory. They feel afraid of losing these things. And believe me, this fear is great. And the result of it is to deprive those persons enjoying what they have. How will you take away this fear? Then there is another kind of fear. The fear of death, of losing yourself. Which self? Your present personality, or your I-ness? What you are interested in. But the present personality, after some years, will be of no interest to you, as it is not of interest to you. Remembrance of a personality which has passed. You never, of course, be interested of your shadow in time and space. What will you be afraid of? Since you are you. That's what will interest you. I am, yes, of course I am, but I am George. I am Mary, if you think you are. You are not that. You are I am I. The self-consciousness being able to express itself and take impressions, in what we call time and space, impressions, illusions, that if somebody will tell you, wake up, stop dreaming. But are we dreaming? What do you think we are? Not dreaming. Life on earth, as it is to say, it's a dream. Nothing more than a dream. As you find out, that all the past, you were dreaming. Sweet dreams, or bitter, painful dreams. But dreams. What should we have now to do? We say we are dreaming. And we find it out with the course of time. In simple course. What are we going to do now? And then somebody will put it, why you are here? Why you came in this life? Why have we been born? Because definitely there must be a purpose behind that. And this is not the present personality, to know it. But you can know it when you find yourself, your real ego, your real self, your real self-consciousness. Then you will know it. Then I get from that, somebody is saying now, do you know it? Yes, I do know it myself. And when you know it, there is no fear about anything. And especially about what we call death. Because death does not exist. What exists is the change. Now, we see behind us this change. I call it a dream. And I say I will classify this dream to two classes. Yet these classes to more pleasing and painful. More pleasing and more painful. Still more, more pleasing, more painful, more desperately painful. What is there wise to do? Dreaming. Now, until we reach the reality, the truth, what is the Wahrheit? What is the truth? We find it again. Do I know the truth? Yes, I know it myself. And everybody will know it someday. This is the truth. To find yourself and know who you are. The self-realization of your ego, self-superconsciousness now. Not simply consciousness. Because what we call it, consciousness is very limited range of expression and of receiving impressions. When self-superconsciousness you are awakened God. I didn't say absolute self- superconsciousness because that's the absolute beingness. Not we. Enough for us to reach what I call self-superconsciousness. This we can do. More? I don't know. So, what is the truth now? Living in the way we are living today. Slaves of emotions, passions, desires, and afraid of losing this or that thing I am calling it mine or the fame. What's the fame? Another illusion. Then I come to another point. What's life? Do you call this life? This kind of dreaming, you call it life. Anyhow, Christ did not call it life. When someone, somebody traced the truth in the words of Christ and said, Ravuni, I want to come and follow you. But my father and mother are living with so many things. They need me. I must be with them. Well, I want to kill them. They pass over, they die, he said. And they never follow me. What Christ told him? Leave the dead buried around dead. You come and follow me. Now, what is calling this kind of life? Death. I call it dreaming, not death. Is dreaming really satisfying us? Nobody can deceive himself to say that anything material can satisfy him. If the desires, the wishes, the emotions are fulfilled, then he feels tired of them. If these feelings are not fulfilled, again he is feeling tired of them, yet of some despair. So, what's left now of the material plane? This kind of dream cannot be bold enough to face the reality, the truth. I tell you, the truth is bitter to the present-day personality, but very, very sweet to the ego. I repeat this. The truth is very, very bitter to the present-day personality, to the egoism, which I say that we must kill, but to your soul self, to your self-consciousness, it's very sweet. Painful is the dreaming and ignorance and delusions. So, I am not teaching pessimism now. Nothing at all of that. I am just teaching you how to make the distinction between real and unreal. You are self and you are egoism. I am showing the real life and not the shadow of life. So, those who are in despair, not being satisfied by life, should cheer up and say, happiness is in us realizing who we are. Now, I have many sweet people here, and I have noticed many, many suicides in Switzerland. Why? You have everything. It is because that everything is not satisfying you. I heard the other day that a couple, I knew them, they came to Cyprus, very, very, very rich, committed suicide. And you are asking, why? They had everything. Very rich people. Why all these things did not satisfy them? That they got the wrong decision. Because what right did they have to stop life which they didn't understand by committing suicide? They thought that they would enter into the annihilation which means no pain, nothing. They entered into nothingness. They are deceived. What will be the result? They will be reborn lame, blind, or something like that, just to learn to appreciate life. Because we cannot take the law in our hands. So, one should tolerate life as it is now, to learn the lesson life will give us. We have to tolerate life so that we shall understand what is the true life. Which is your true life? For you, the truth. Where can you find the truth? You are the truth. When you realize that you are God. We are the truth. And what is not giving satisfaction is just the illusions and what we make the mistake to think it's the truth. The next moment we will find that it isn't the truth. Now, we have to face life as we have a phenomenon of life in the material plane boldly. And get the decision everything happening is to give a lesson. And the whole world, what I mean, the material plane, the psychical plane, the mind plane, and everything are ruled by the total wisdom, the total love, and the total might of power of an infinite absolute super intelligence we call God. So, what's the array? Becoming God. You can never become something you are not. Reawaken yourself in realizing you are God. You are in Him. And He is in you. If you find that, nothing, nothing is so interesting. Interesting? Since you have to live in the material plane, you must try to live properly. Just use the mind to separate what you call pleasing from painful. Try to find the pleasing as long as we have to live in this material plane. Because sooner or later we leave it. And avoid what you call displeasing or painful. And of course, do it for the others. Avoid giving pain to others by trying to make their life tolerably good and pleasing. What do we see now around us? Are people around us trying to feel the life as pleasing them and giving pleasure to the others around them? Or they do their best to make the life of the others more difficult by something else? Should we avoid these persons? And should we feel ill feelings for these persons? Relatives or strangers? No. Because those persons are most in need of our love and sympathy to find their way. So, we are living now as a present day personality in bodies. A material body, a psychical body and a lower mind body. We see that the illusions are common to all. The illusions have created for everyone a forced self-consciousness we call egoism. To make the mistake to think that we are that egoism. So, our aim is just to get rid of the illusions and of that egoism and find ourselves and us in our present day personality. We are the self-consciousness God. So is everyone around us. Man or woman. So much respect that ego self-consciousness in any present day personality people are calling thieves, criminals and giving many, many other bad names. So, in everyone we must see God. This is our attitude now towards life. And what should we express towards all other human beings? Our love or rather its love. Because what we call our love is its love. I didn't say his love or her love, because God is not male or female. We express its love. So, caught in this conclusion we reach to that infinite beingness is the only reality. And we are this reality. The infinite beingness is life and love. Of course, and mercy. What should we be? We are already life and we should express love. Its love as our love. Now you understand the invocation we make at the beginning of the lesson. God of life, love and mercy. Enlighten our minds to understand your truth. To free us from delusions. Clean our hearts to reflect your love towards you and towards every human being. Because every human being is it. Every human being is our real self. We are not separated as spirit-souls. We are from the other. We are one. In it. Do you have questions? Yes. To truly see the I-am-ness in another person, is that something other than the ethers that is capable of using me too? We talked about the different ethers, the imprinting ether and the creative ether. Yes. But if I see the I-am in my sister, am I seeing through something different than the ether? Am I using another quality than the ethers? Now if you use the ether in the same way you use it, but you use the creative ether by authority now. But I said that in the beginning of the lesson. Definitely. Because you will be able to express the creative ether. You will make conscious materialization. Or rather, self-conscious materialization. Yes. It's my understanding from the lecture that the etheric double is that which creates the lower noetic body as well. No, no, no. The etheric double creates the material body. The etheric double of the psychical body creates the psychical body. And the etheric double of the mind creates the lower mental body. Each body has its etheric double and that etheric double is the mode in which that body is created. So you have three bodies, you have three etheric doubles, not one. Is that etheric, when we are healing on the psychical and noetic bodies, are we using the energy of the etheric double of that body to heal that body? Definitely. Okay, thank you. How do you use the etheric double of the psychical body? When you have a fellow there, and you make a wish, and you have in your heart the not desire, that feeling of help is here, automatically you are using the etheric double of the psychical body of Jesus. Because that corresponds to the feeling. And when you are first of learning how to do it, that means passing the etheric energy in his body with your hands, you are using the etheric energy of the mind body. Unconsciously. But later you use it consciously and self-consciously. Yes. In the first chapter of your book you say that the method of beingness will help us develop power, wisdom and total love. Can you give some instructions how to meditate correctly? How to meditate? Or is it perhaps a theme for tomorrow? There are many, many, many kinds of meditation. Many kinds of meditation. If you follow well this lecture today, I have given all the aspects of the expressions of our present-day personality. So, who decides to start meditating? The present-day personality or your ego? Sole self-conscious. Your present-day personality, ego, acknowledging its own nature will start meditating. In meditating you have no two points. The one who tends to learn which is your present- day personality and the one who already knows will convey its knowledge to the other fellow because unless this is the case, you will never be able to know anything unless you have within you the truth and the real knowledge. But you realize that after deep meditation. How? When you know something you have the feeling that you always knew it. That that was not unknown to you. Yet it was unknown to you. You think, I knew it. It's nothing new to me. You will find that. And this is the proof. But now, meditation. Of course, I will not tell you go to the Olympics now and run and expect to win to be a runner. The only thing you will be is to be short of breath. I felt that. You have to start knowing how to walk and walk better and run a little run more and more to regain strength. Then you become a runner. To go there and just claim gold medals. But you are not. You cannot do it now. As you are now. So you start your meditation slowly slowly, slowly regaining powers. Because the mind I mean the material brain, cannot respond to the vibrations of the mind unless they are trained to do so. The same way you can practice your body slowly slowly to do certain things. You cannot do them at the beginning. Now, what's the mind? What must be the brains? Suppose I tell you outside is fire. You say, how is fire? You say, the light of the sun and the rays of the sun is fire. How can you prove it to me? I get a magnifying glass and a piece of paper and say, come here. Concentrate the view of these rays. Then you see that you are touching fire. You see that. Don't touch fire. That's fire. What's the magnifying glass concentrating rays of the sun? That magnifying glass is your material brain. Use it. Make it a magnifying glass. Now just pay attention to what I'm saying now. The five senses are giving illusions which we mistake as realities. But the realities are illusions exist. What exists in time and space is giving illusions. And time and space is illusion. What is not illusion is the absolute beingness.