



SWIMMING WITH THE
WHALE
Teachings and Practices of Daskalos
&
the Researchers of Truth
 
a workbook by Daniel Joseph
 

Copyright © Daniel Joseph 2012 All Rights Reserved Worldwide
Library of Congress Control Number: 2012912157
ISBN Hardcover: 978-1-4771-3970-7
ISBN Softcover: 978-1-4771-3969-1
ISBN eBook: 978-1-4771-3971-4
To order this and other e Books, please visit: www.TheWhale.us
To order printed versions, please visit:
http://bookstore.xlibris.com/Products/SKU-
0078198003/Swimming-With-The-Whale.aspx
No part of this document or the related files may be reproduced or
transmitted in any form, by any means (electronic, photocopying,
recording, or otherwise) without the prior written permission of
the copyright owner.

Contents
 
Forward
Introduction
Chapter One: A Seven Year Old Master & The 2000 Year
Old Lineage of the Researchers of Truth
Chapter Two: A System for the Research of Truth
Chapter Three: A Day in the Life of Daskalos
Chapter Four: Take Aim
Chapter Five: Seven Levels of Consciousness
Chapter Six: Everything Is Mind
Chapter Seven: Three Worlds of Existence
Chapter Eight: Three Vehicles of the Soul
Chapter Nine: The Seven Heavens
Chapter Ten: Human Angels ~ Human Devils
Chapter Eleven: Brick by Brick
Chapter Twelve: I Laugh When I Hear the Fish Is Thirsty
Chapter Thirteen: The Pulse of Life
Chapter Fourteen: The Voice of an Angel
Chapter Fifteen: The Kiss of an Archangel
Chapter Sixteen: Across Time and Space

Chapter Seventeen: Life in the Higher Worlds
Chapter Eighteen: What Changes Is Not Real
Chapter Nineteen: Possibilities, Probabilities & the Plan
Chapter Twenty: Your Brother Lives Again
Chapter Twenty One: Ascending the Ladder of Relative
Truth
Chapter Twenty-Two: The Truth About Myths
Chapter Twenty-Three: The Dead and the Sleeping
Chapter Twenty-Four: Divine Love ~ Human Love
Chapter Twenty-Five: Initiation & Protection
Epilogue: The Great Sun
Glossary: Terms

FORWARD
by Panayiota, Daskalos’ Daughter
 
Dear Seekers of Truth,
At the beginning, maybe you will find my father’s (Daskalos)
teaching difficult to understand. But slowly-slowly all of you will
realize  all  of  these  truths  are  within  you.  It  is  God’s  gift  and
everyone’s rightful inheritance.
The truth contained in these teachings remains inactive in you
for a long time. Now is the time to decide to bring it up again and
step  by  step  and  with  God’s  blessings  to  remember  what  you
already know.
I will give you some advice, the same advice my father gave to
me  a  long  time  ago:  “Learn  to  concentrate  fully.  Observe
everything.  Nothing  must  escape  your  attention.  Practice
Introspection  every  night.  See  your  personality’s  behavior
mentally  through  visualization.  See  analyze  and  correct  your
personality’s mistakes. This will help you meditate deeper and in
time assimilate your present-day personality self with your real
Self. What a joy to be able to express your real Self, which is Love;
and  to  express  this  pure  Love  through  your  present-day
personality self. Then you will see that it is so easy to proceed to
higher levels.”
Daniel has studied and trained with Daskalos since 1989. I am
grateful to Daniel for presenting these lessons in a simple direct
way  to  help  you  understand  and  experience  the  great  truths
contained in Daskalos’ teachings.
From the depth of my heart I wish you to fulfill your real aim
in this life.
Panayiota Th. Atteshli

Strovolos Nicosia, Cyprus
January 24, 2010

INTRODUCTION
 
Because  Daskalos  chose  not  to  seek  fame  but  anonymous,
selfless service, his time on Earth drew no more worldly attention
than a ripple on the surface of the sea. Yet it may well be, that
because of the life he chose to live, he willcontinue to have an ever-
growing influence on his fellow man. Such that after he departed, it
will one day be realized that there lived in our lifetime, a truly
remarkable human being bearing great gifts for us all.
It is just not possible to adequately convey the experience of
sitting with him. Rather than a limit in Daskalos I found an ever-
expanding  horizon  of  love,  wisdom  and  power.  Most  human
relationships tend to fall into one category or another, but for me
Daskalos  assumed  them  all.  He  was  the  brilliant  teacher  who
coulddescribe  God,  man  and  the  nature  of  reality  in  the  finest
detail. Hepersonified the quintessential grandfather, captivating us
with his expert story-telling abilitiesthat underscored the principles
of his teaching. At other times his care was like a loving mother
watching over you with tenderness. He was the strong competent
father confidently advising you. He was an insightful psychologist,
a  compassionate  metaphysician,  a  good  confessor,  spiritual  co-
workeras well as anexpert guide to the unseen worlds of Spirit. He
was a seeker’s most trusted ally and a true brother of mercy. At
othertimes he would get you to laugh so hard your jaw would ache.
And even when he felt the need to point out your errors, he did so
not  as  a  stern  disciplinarian  standing  over  you,  but  as  a  loving
brother standing beside you. He is truly a seeker’s best friend. I
wish that these pages open a small door for you to enter into the
mystical  world  of  Daskalos;  to  learn  from  his  teachings  and
practicehow to accelerate your spiritual life and live happier.
May God’s love, wisdom and power inspire your heart, mind
and life wherever you are and wherever you go.
Daniel Joseph, a Researcher of Truth

Chapter One
A SEVEN YEAR OLD MASTER
&
THE 2000 YEAR OLD LINEAGE OF THE
RESEARCHERS OF TRUTH
 
The Truth is a brilliant, many-sided diamond.
 
The Great Light fills this gem and colors gleam from every side.
 
Mystics, messengers, sages and teachers of all ages, races, and
beliefs have spoken of a different face of this common Eternal
Truth. ~ Daskalos
 
 
It is not possible for anyone using words from any language,
to adequately describe who and what Dr. Stylianos Atteshlis, (aka
Daskalos) really is. Nor is it possible for anyone to completely
describe  the  teachings  of  the  Researchers  of  Truth  that  poured
through him like a mighty river. However, it may be possible to
sketch  a  portraitof  Daskalos  the  mystic-healer  whose  potent
works  spanned  seven  decades.  His  was  a  life  of  healing  and
teaching  that  publicly  began  in  1919  on  the  Eurasian  island  of
Cyprus  at  the  far  eastern  end  of  the  Mediterranean  Sea  –  just
above Egypt.
At  this  time,  Cyprus  was  primarily  populated  by  Greek-
Christians and Turkish-Muslims living together. But historically
Cyprus had seen great conflicts and been occupied by a succession
of conquering empires throughout the ages. Layer upon layer of
civilizations existed on the island continuously from the Neolithic
to the modern. The capitol of Cyprus, Lefkosia (Nicosia), is one of
the world’s oldest inhabited cities. The oldest part of the city is a
great  example  of  military  architecture,  enclosed  by  a  moat  and

massive  Venetian  stone  walls.  The  now  dry  moat  once  was
strategically filled with water channeled down from the mountains
for protection against invasion.
And invasion it seemed was an underlying current of Cyprus
history.  The  Hittites,  Egyptians,  Persians,  Romans,  Ottomans,
Venetians, Englishand many more took turns occupying the island
which also had long periods of Greek control. For three hundred
years Cyprus and its people were under attack by Arab armies as
they  raided  and  looted  the  island’s  wealth  and  terrorized  its
people. Alexander  the  Great  conquered  the  island  as  did  King
Richard the Lionhearted, becoming the Lord of Cyprus, during the
Third Crusade on his way to free the Holy Land from the Muslim
King  Saladin.  One  year  later  King  Richard  sold  the  island  of
Cyprus to the Knights Templar, who also protected pilgrims on
their way to visit the Holy Land and safeguard the pilgrim’s cash
as  they  traveled  by  setting  up  the  first  system  of  Travelers’
Checks.
The  Knights  Templar  is  of  significant  interest  to  the
Researchers of Truth, because at this time and location, they kept
the ancient teachings on the Symbol of Life. The Symbol of Life
had been presented by Origen Adamantius (185 – 254 AD), an
early spiritual giant, prolific writer, teacher, Christian Bishop, and
considered one of the first and greatest Church Fathers. Origenwas
a strong proponent of the Doctrine of Reincarnation, which was
also  a  solid  part  of  the  Church’s  teachings  for  the  first  five
centuries  AD.  Origen  taught:  “Each  Soul  enters  the  world
strengthened by the victories or weakened by the defects of its
past lives. Its place in this world is determined by past virtues and
shortcomings.” Origen also presented the term Absolute Beingness
as a more meaningful description of what people generically refer
to as God.
Origen’s  version  of  the  Symbol  of  Lifeand  the  Jewish
Kabbalah both originated from the same ancient Egyptian Symbol
of Life used in the old Mystery Schools of Egypt. Using elements
of Saint John’s book of Revelations, Origen changed the Egyptian
Symbol of Life into a purely Christian work. But much earlier in

Egypt, Moses as an Egyptian Prince and High Hierophant in the
Mystery Schools, had access to the extremely powerful knowledge
associated  with  this  teaching.  Moses  took  the  ancient  Egyptian
Symbol of Life and also made changes to it and presented it as a
purely Jewish work that is now known as the Kabbalah. The great
wonders Moses demonstrated during the Exodus of the Jews from
Egypt as told in the Bible were accomplished by his use of this
secret knowledge.
Origen  had  been  captured,  imprisoned,  tortured  and  had
virtually every bone in his body brokenat the hands of the Romans
during their persecution of the Christians. Upon his release from
prison, in the last four years of his life Origen gave the Symbol of
Life to the Essenes. The Essenes were Greek speaking Israelites;
Greek  was  their  mother  tongue  but  they  also  spoke  the  local
Aramaic language. The Essenes in this area are best known for the
earlier  hiding  of  their  spiritual  library  from  the  Romans.  Their
library wasdiscovered in a cave by a young shepherd in 1946 and
called the Dead Sea Scrolls. The Essenes in turn gave the Symbol of
Life to the Knights Templar, where on Cyprus;they guarded its
advanced secret science with their lives. Daskalos resurrected the
all but lost teachings on the Symbol of Life and trained interested
students in its use by giving them the keys to the secret knowledge
of this great body of work.
In modern times, the British controlled the island of Cyprus
in the early 1900’s until it declared its independence from England
in 1960. For fourteen years the Greek Christian Cypriots and the
Turkish Muslim Cypriots lived under the one flag of the Cyprus
Republic until political unrest between the two groupsprecipitated
an invasion by Turkey in 1974. Hundreds of thousands of Greeks
were displaced as they were driven by the invading Turkish army
to the southern half of the island. Many were killed and many lost
their  homes.  Daskalos  was  even  shot  and  wounded  during  the
occupation,  he  and  hisfamily  suffered  through  bombings  by  the
Turkish army. Eventually the UN had to intervene and set up an
armed  peacekeeping  force  with  a  neutral  zone  across  theentire
island, which also ran right through the center of Nicosia where

Daskalos lived. To this day walking through old Nicosia, you will
see streets with sand bagged and steel drum barricades, barber wire,
armed soldiers in lookout posts and bullet holes in the Presidential
Palace close to the neutral zone. The UN imposed a neutral Green
Line, which separates the Turkish Muslims on the north from the
Greek  Christians  on  the  south  of  the  island.  But  never  did  the
conflict escalate and destroy the city like it did in Beirut Lebanon
just over 100 miles off the coast of Cyprus. Clearly Cyprus, the
Island of Love, hashistorically been a cradle of conflict.
And it was into this volatile setting the master Daskalos had
incarnated once again to continue his work. In 1919 the seven year
old  Daskaloswas  already  able  to  Self-Consciously  travel  to  the
worlds of the higher dimensions. At this age, he could speak all the
languages of his past incarnations and consciously communicated
with “great intelligences” that guided him from the worlds beyond.
His parents knew this and believed in his abilities but warned him
not to reveal these things to other people. Sometimes his father
was just looking at him, trying in vain to comprehend just who and
what his son was. From the beginning of this incarnation Daskalos
knew who he was and the purpose of his life on Earth. However,
he initially thought everyone could communicate with these higher
intelligences whom he called brother guides. What he did not know
at age seven, was that all the people around him were not the same
as he was. But he was about to find out just how different he
really was.
One day in elementary school, Daskalos’ arithmetic teacher
called  on  him  to  solve  a  difficult  math  problem.  Unfortunately,
Daskalos was not at all prepared and admitted to the teacher that
he had not studied this assignment. The teacher insisted that he
come to the front of the class and try to solve the problem on the
blackboard anyway.
Daskalos approached the black board with no idea how to
solve the mathematics problem. The teacher read the problem out
loud and Daskalos wrote it on the blackboard. Then as Daskalos
would later describe: “I felt near me one of my bother guides and
friends, a Dominican monk who I knew centuries and centuries ago.

He told me: ‘Give me your hand, we shall solve the problem.’”
Daskalos took the chalk, placed it on the blackboard and his
disincarnated  guide,  took  control  of  his  hand  and  solved  the
problem.
The surprised mathematics teacher asked him: “Why did you
tell me you did not study?”
Daskalos innocently replied, “Sir, it was not me who solved
the problem”.
The teacher asked incredulously, “Then who was it?”
“It  was  Father  Dominico,  the  Dominican  monk  who  is
standing  near  me.  He  got  my  hand  and  solved  the  problem”,
Daskalos openly answered. Father Dominico was one of Daskalos’
mentors  in  a  previous  life  who  continued  to  assist  him  from  a
higher dimension.
The teacher got angry saying, “I do not see anyone, and so do
you think you are making a fool of me now?”
With the boy in hand the teacher told the principal of the
school Daskalos’ incredible story and left him with the principal to
deal  with.  Fortunately,  as  it  turned  out,  the  principal  was
practicing spiritualism in secret. At that time studying spiritualism
was prohibited by the churchmen of Cyprus and could get you
excommunicated  from  the  Church.  When  the  director  saw
Daskalos’ writing on the blackboard he did not think it looked like
the  handwriting  of  a  seven  year  old  and  considered  Daskalos’
explanation more seriously.
On  the  following  Wednesday  there  was  no  school  in  the
afternoon and it was arranged with Daskalos’ father for Daskalos
to come to the principal’s office. That day Daskalos came to the
principal’s office and founda schoolmaster of mathematics, and a
schoolmaster teaching Latin waiting for him. They wanted to know
more about this little seven year old sage and his invisible helper.
They  planned  to  test  the  authenticity  of  Daskalos  and  Father
Dominico  for  themselves.  First,  they  tested  him  on  arithmetic
problems beyond his level of study. Then they gave him algebra
problems to solve, then square roots and logarithms. Each time,
Father Dominico guided Daskalos’ hand and unerringly solved the

difficult problems.
Next, they wanted Daskalos to translate some lines from the
works of Ovid (43 BC – 17 AD), the Roman poet, whose narrative
and linguistic skills are unmatched. Then the Latin schoolmaster
wanted to read the lines in Latin and asked Daskalos to write them
down in the Greek language.
“Yes, of course, but in which version do you want it written
in  –  the  common  spoken  Greek  or  the  formal  ‘pure’  Greek?”
Daskalos’ replied.
The  schoolmasters  were  looking  at  each  other  in  disbelief.
They told him, “Give it to us in both”.
Then  Daskalos  with  the  guidance  of  Father  Dominico
complied  and  translated  two  pages  of  Latin.  These  astonished
educated men challenged him further asking him to translate from a
Latin Bible as the Latin teacher read it out loud. Daskalos complied
and  even  corrected  a  mistake  made  by  the  reader  whose  Latin
pronunciation was not so good. Then Daskalos in full attunement
with  Father  Dominico  began  reading  the  Latin  Gospel  himself
pronouncing the Latin perfectly.
Upon hearing this, the large plump Latin professor became
overly excited and embraced Daskalos giving him a big kiss. Like
most seven year old boys, Daskalos did not like this display of
affection and instantly rubbed the kiss off.
Now, it would be a great mistake to think that Daskalos was
“channeling” a higher entity called Father Dominico. Daskalos did
not channel. Nor did he approve of anyone opening themselves up
to unknown entities and unverified energies as a medium. That can
be very dangerous and misleading. Instead, Daskalos by means of
attunement and At-One-Ment was able to coordinate himself with
his  old  friend  and  guide.  As  soon  as  Daskalos  was  fully
coordinated, whatever Father Dominico was doing with Daskalos’
hand  or  communicating,  that  knowledge  immediately  became
Daskalos’ own knowledge too. Think of At-One-Ment between
two  beings  as  something  similar  to  bringing  two  candle  flames
together. When the two individual candle flames come together, the
light gets brighter and the two flames appear as one. Pull the candle

flames back apart and we see two individual flames again.
Daskalos  taught  that  by  developing  our  latent  abilities  of
attunement,  which  will  lead  us  to  At-One-Ment,  we  could
assimilate  knowledge  about  anyone  or  anything  directly.
Furthermore,  the  direct  knowledge  gained  from  attunement/At-
One-Ment comes much, much faster and more fully than it does by
conventional studies. What would take years and years of earthly
learning can be accomplished in moments through At-One-Ment.
The next time the elementary school director and the other
university schoolmasters tested Daskalos, an accident happened.
Another boy in the schoolyard was running and fell down on the
gravel, which cut his knee open and he was bleeding badly. The
other  teachers  brought  the  boy  crying  into  the  director’s  office
where Daskalos was. Father Dominico instructed Daskalos to ask
for water to clean the blood and stones from the injured boy’s
knee. Daskalos removed the stones and cleaned the knee, which
continued to bleed profusely.
The director had already sent someone to find the doctor from
the  local  neighborhood,  who  happened  to  be  the  cousin  of
Daskalos’  mother  and  he  knew  many  things  about  Daskalos’
abilities.  He  arrived  at  the  director’s  office  and  seeing  Daskalos
cleaning  the  wound,  he  told  the  director  to  allow  Daskalos  to
continue what he was doing.
At this point, Father Dominico said to Daskalos; “Come, let’s
cure him,” and instructed Daskalos to kneel and hold the boy’s
knee with both his hands. “Visualize the knee all right,” caress it,
see it all right and now take your hands away,” Father Dominico
directed. Daskalos did as he was instructed, removed his hands and
there was no longer any blood or wound on the boy’s knee – it was
completely cured!
When  the  doctor  saw  the  wound  completely  healed,  he
mentioned  his  family  relationship  with  Daskalos  and  declared
factually: “We are accustomed to these things!”
Sensing the great opportunity presented by this mystic-child-
healer, the director made arrangements with Daskalos’ father for
him to come to the director’s house on Friday evenings. Early next

Friday, Daskalos arrived at the director’s house to find a big sitting
room filled with about twenty-five seekers all eager to learn about
this amazing boy and his invisible guides.
They  asked  Daskalos,  whom  they  called  by  his  nickname,
Lakis,  if  they  could  ask  Father  Dominico  and  his  other  guides
certain  philosophical  questions.  Daskalos  agreed.  They  began
asking questions and writing down the answers given by Daskalos.
Then they started asking questions in different languages. Daskalos
answered  in  perfect  pronunciation  in  the  same  language  as  the
question asked. The people were astonished. They were wondering
how  a  boy  of  seven  could  answer  these  deep  philosophical
questions and how could he have learned foreign languages at such
a young age.
These  meetings  went  on  for  three  weeks  until  Father
Dominico and another guide, Father Yiohannan, informed Daskalos
that these meetings could not continue in this way. Daskalos had
been  in  continual,  conscious  contact  with  Yiohannan,  his
disincarnated  mentor,  for  nearly  2000  years.  Yiohannan  advised
that if the director and his students wanted to continue they must
first make Seven Promises.
Yiohannan, guided Daskalos’ hand to write down the Seven
Promises, which are still used by Daskalos’ students to this day –
not even a comma has been changed. The Seven Promises are not
oaths  to  any  one  person,  organization  or  even  God.  The  Seven
Promises  are  promises  the  individual  makes  to  their  own  Self;
promising to try to live by them in thought, word and deed at all
times;  and  under  all  circumstances. As  Daskalos  declared,  “The
seven  promises  embody  a  timeless  pledge  to  the  Divine  Plan.
Taking moral guidance from the promises through daily meditation
an  aspirant  will,  in  time,  attune  himself  to  the  Divine  Laws  of
Creation.”
On  the  following  Friday,  Daskalos  announced  the
requirements for continuing, provided his new class with the Seven
Promises  and  requested  that  each  person  make  these  promises
before they continued. The director read the Seven Promises aloud;
the other seekers stood reciting them with their hand on their heart,

and  received  initiation  from  this  diminutive  master.  The  young
Daskalos sat in a chair with his little feet dangling above the floor,
and continued teaching his well-educated audience. So began the
teaching  and  healing  work  of  this  seven-year  old  master  on  the
island of Cyprus in 1919 at a time without, planes, cars, phones or
evenelectricity.
Over  the  course  of  the  next  seventy  plus  years,  Daskalos
established more than 100 independent circles of study worldwide
and  many,  many  thousands  of  students  have  come  into  these
circles and personally experienced profound spiritual awakenings
and  undeniable  healings.  So-called  “incurable”  diseases,  such  as
deadly  cancers,  were  “miraculously”  cured  in  the  presence  of
Daskalos. Daskalos’ extraordinary skills empowered by the Holy
Spirit, also enabled the “permanently” lame and disabled to walk
freely again. Daskalos not only treated physical ailments, but also
those whose hearts carried deep and persistent emotional wounds
found relief under his loving care. And those who walked in mental
darkness, negativity and confusion were lead out of the shadows
and back into the light by Daskalos. Of course, Daskalos never
claimed he healed anyone and stated no person ever healed another
person. Any healing that takes place is done by the Holy Spirit.
All a person can do in regards to healing is to train to become a fit
conduit for the Holy Spirit to do its healing works through.
Daskalos’ readiness and ability to train interested seekers of
truth  in  advanced  methods  of  healing  and  truth-seeking  was
remarkable. He helped countless seekers raise their consciousness
to higher and higher levels. He established a series of studies that
revealed  deeper  and  deeper  teachings  to  the  students  as  they
advanced through the outer circle, inner circle, in-more circle and in-
most circle. To those serious researchers who were prepared, he
earnestly  provided  more  advanced  training,  in  such  things  as
Psycho-Noetical form construction, Exosomatosis (conscious out
of  body  experience  –  OBE),  distant  healing  and  much  more.
Daskalos placed the well named, “Golden Keys” to the kingdom of
the heavens in our hands and taught us how to use them.
We could rightly say that in 1919 the seven year-old Daskalos

established  the  beginning  of  the  modern  day  Circles  for  the
Research  of  Truth  and  the  System  for  the  Research  of  Truth,
which continues to this day. Today, each of Daskalos’ Researchers
of  Truth  Circles  is  headed  by  an  advanced  brother  or  sister
Researcher  of  Truth.  Each  circle  is  independent  from  the  other
circles, which means that the leaders and members of one circle do
not interfere with the work or members of the other circles.
However,  the  current  expression  of  the  teachings  of  the
Researchers of Truth was originally established over 2000 years
ago. But traveling back in time to the beginning of humankind’s
arrival on the planet, we could also rightly say that the research of
the truth began when the first primitive human on Earth began to
wonder: Where am I? Who am I? Where have I come from and
what is my purpose? So the research of truth is not something
exclusive to the members of the Researchers of Truth Circles. The
research of truth is the real calling and underlying duty of every
human being.
The teachings of the Researchers of Truth are not presenting
unverified theories to be accepted blindly without proof. These
teachings are the clear reflection of the Truth, the nature of reality
and the Soul of each of us. The truth contained in the teachings is
to be sincerely investigated and experienced directly by each one of
us. The real truth is not something we get from outside ourselves.
The real truth is already in us, in our own Divine Nature. Wise,
loving  brother  and  sister  guides  are  here  to  help  those  who  are
interested,  learn  how  to  research  and  discover  this  truth  within
themselves. They will not do the work for you but they will help
and guide you as you ascend the ladder of relative truth towards
the absolute truth. Teachings, teachers and guides show the way,
but each one of us must make the effort to walk in this way if we
are to reach our aim of Self-Realization – to realize who and what
we really are, have always been and always will be.

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
In  order  to  succeed  in  raising  our  consciousness  to  higher
levels we must be honest with our self. And so the Researchers of
Truth make seven promises to the Inner Self. The promises help us
clean our personality’s consciousness and assimilate it with the
Inner Self. In this regard it does not take great effort. Not to say it
is simple to live by these promises, but it is not all that difficult or
unpleasant either. All we need is decisive determination; then in a
state of peace and calm we can begin to practice them. The seven
promises  are  made  by  an  initiate  in  the  Outer  Circle  of  the
Researchers of Truth and prepare them for a new way of living. It
is a happier life that is calmer, more satisfying and offers a better
future. As you slowly start to comprehend the deeper meanings of
these promises, you will start to understand many, many things
that you cannot possibly understand now.

THE PRACTICE: SEVEN PROMISES OF A
RESEARCHER OF TRUTH
I promise to myself:
1. To serve at all times and in all places Absolute Beingness
to whom I whole heartedly belong
2. To  be  ready  at  all  times  and  in  all  places  to  serve  the
Divine Plan
3. To make good use of the Divine Gifts of thought and word
at all times, in all places and under all circumstances
4. To  endure  patiently,  without  complaining,  all  forms  of
trials and tribulation which the most wise Divine Law may
bestow upon me
5. To love and serve my fellow human beings sincerely from
the  depths  of  my  heart  and  Soul  no  matter  what  their
behavior may be towards me
6. To meditate and to contemplate daily Absolute Beingness,
with the objective of total coordination of my thoughts,
desires, words and actions with Its Divine Will
7. To  investigate  and  check  every  night  whether  all  my
thoughts,  desires,  words  and  actions  are  in  absolute
harmony with the Divine Law.

Chapter Two
A SYSTEM FOR THE RESEARCH OF
TRUTH
 
Our system of Esoteric Christianity celebrates the eternal truths
known to all great religious traditions, while firmly based in the
teachings of the God-Man Joshua Immanuel the Christ and the
New Testament. Through directed study, exercises and meditations,
we seek the balanced evolution and integration of our entire being.
Our approach is methodical, safe and self-evident. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
The official roots of the Researchers of Truth teachings go
back over 2000 years. And Daskalos organized these teachings into
an  integrated  System  for  the  Research  of  Truth.  Some  of  these
teachings  have  appeared  over  the  last  two  millenniums  in
fragmented parts and areonly now presented as a complete whole
system.  Much  of  these  teachings  have  been  undisclosed  to  the
public until today.
According to the Bible it states: “When Jesus was born in
Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there
came three wise men from the east to Jerusalem. Saying, ‘where is
he that is born King of the Jews?’ For we have seen his star in the
east, and have come to worship him.”
According to the Akashic records and to the Catholic doctrine,
Jesus’ mother, Mary, was also born by Immaculate Conception.
And when Mother Mary was three years old her mother, Hanna,
dressed her in all white and presented her to the Essene Temple to
be dedicated to God as a White Dove of the Heavens according to
the  Essene  rites.  These  Essenes  were  Greek  speaking  Israelites
living in Palestine and their name meant: “The Pure,” and is derived
from the Aramaic word Asa, which means healer. And they were
healers. Unlike their brothers the Jews, the Essenes did not believe
in an angry and revengeful God, but believed in a merciful father
God just as Christ would come to describe.
As a White Dove of the Heavens; Mary was to live on the
temple grounds devoting her life to prayer, service and care of the
sick and elderly. So Mary was destined to remain a virgin and at
the age of thirteen her family gave her into a white marriage with a
carpenter  named  Joseph  who  was  a  widower. According  to  the
Essene custom a man could have a traditional marriage but could
also have other “White Marriages” at the same time, which were
only of pure service and dedicated to protecting and caring for the
woman.
At  fifteen  years  of  age  Mary  was  in  prayer  when  the
Archangel Gabriel visited her and announced she was chosen to be

the vessel for the birth of the Son of God – the Messiah who was
predicted to come by the Prophets in the Old Testament. When
Joseph found out he became greatly concerned and confused but an
Angel also appeared to him in a dream telling him that this was
indeed an immaculate conception and Mary would bear a son who
would save people from their sins and he would be called in the
Aramaic language Joshua Immanuel, which in the Greek language it
was pronounced Jesus. The name Immanuel means, “God is with
us.”
But let’s go further and roll back time 500 years before the
birth of Christ to the very beginning of our story when a prophecy
foretold of this coming event. And this prophet was no other than
the  Buddha. About  500  BC,  the  Buddha’s  disciple  and  dearest
attendant,  Ananda,  asked  the  Buddha:  “Are  You  God”?  The
Buddha replied: “No, but God himself will be born on earth in 500
years.”
Five centuries later in India there was a mystic-king named
Maharajah  Ram-Touaivahan  who  was  aware  of  this  prophecy.
And through astrology, clairvoyance and Exosomatosis (Conscious
Out  of  Body  Experience)  began  to  attune  and  follow  the
developing  events  leading  up  to  the  birth  of  Christ.  He  had
followed the life of Mary and determined the time and place in
Palestine where she would give birth to the Christ child.
He was so sure of the coming of God that he gave his kingdom
to his mother and brother as joint rulers and set out for Palestine,
accompanied by his friend and counselor Chekitana. Along the way
they passed through Armenia, which in those days was divided
into  two  warring  kingdoms,  ruled  by  two  brothers,  two  twin
brothers, named Gaspar and Dikran. The Maharaja Ram reconciled
the brothers’ conflict and Gaspar permitted Dikran to rule both
kingdoms, so that Gaspar (Kaspar) might join the Maharaja Ram
on pilgrimage to pay homage to God incarnated.
Journeying south, they met a Bedouin King and astrologer,
the Shakh Baal-das-Aaussar (his name meant: The Servant of the
Egyptian  God  Osiris).  The  Bedouin  King  Baal-das-Aaussar
(Baldassar or Balthazar) asked to accompany them, and so with his

two attendants he also joined the entourage. In time they reached
Palestine. These advanced mystic-pilgrims could read the thoughts
of Herod, the King of Palestine, and were well aware of the king’s
evil intent to stop the predicted coming of a Messiah; a savior of
mankind. Despite that, Baal-das-Aaussar insisted on visiting Herod
in hopes that their visit might change the ruler’s hardened heart;
but it did not.
From there they continued to Bethlehem, where they found
the  Holy  Family.  The  Maharajah  Ram-Touaivahan  presented
himself and Chekitana to Joseph and Mary. He then presented the
Armenian  King,  Gaspar,  and  his  attendants.  The  Bedouin  King
stepped forward introducing himself and his two attendants. Then
Maharajah  Ram  came  forward  to  the  Christ  child,  took  off  his
royal purple robe, and placed it around the manger. Only his white
undergarment remained.
Kneeling before the Christ child in the manger, the Maharaja
Ram pulled his short sword from its sheaf and broke it in two over
his knee. He then laid the two pieces at the foot of the manger
saying: “My Lord at your feet is all power and authority.”
Looking at the Christ child he exclaimed: “Ham El Khior,”
which in his language meant “We See God.”
From then on he was called Ham El Khior, which has been
written in the Bible as Melchior.
Daskalos had a replica of this sword, which he used to initiate
members into the different degrees of his Circles for the Research
of Truth. For initiation into the outer circle a candidate would kneel
in front of Daskalos and two inner circle members while pledging
his or her service for humanity and other things. Then with the un-
pointed sword, Daskalos touched the candidate initiating them into
the outer circle of the System for the Research of Truth.
After the Maharaja Ram broke his sword, the Armenian King
Gaspar, or Casper as it has been written in the bible, knelt before
the God-child pressing his forehead to the manger he wept saying:
“My Lord and God of Love have mercy upon us. Have mercy on
mankind. No more wars, no more bloodshed. Guide us oh Lord to
peace.”

Then Balthazar similarly bowed before the Christ Child and
glorified the one true God. The Three Kings gave their gifts of gold
and incense as told in the Bible and advised the Holy family that
they would soon need the gold. King Herod of Israel, aware of the
prophecy of the birth of the Messiah to be born in Bethlehem, had
set out to stop it. Fearing a threat to his earthly rule, King Herod
ordered all boys under the age of two in and around Bethlehem to
be killed. The Three Kings warned the Holy family of this and
advised them to leave Bethlehem immediately. Then Balthazar gave
Mary and Joseph two Bedouin robes to disguise themselves during
their escape. After sneaking out of Bethlehem disguised as nomadic
Bedouins, they joined a Bedouin caravan in Jerusalem and leaving
Israel they traveled along the eastern side of the Dead Sea into
Egypt  eventually  coming  to  stay  in  the  Essene  community  of
Heliopolis along the east side of the Nile River. Here they remained
until  King  Herod  died  eleven  years  later  and  they  could  safely
return to Israel. After this encounter with the Holy Family, the
mystic king Ham El Khior (Melchior) began the modern lineage of
Researchers of Truth Circles that continue to this day.
These teachings are very deep and broad so it helps to study
and practice them with others as a group. These groups are the
Circles for the Research of Truth. They are headed by an initiated
Circle Leader. One can advance very far in the outer circle, even
gaining  the  ability  of  Exosomatosis.  (Exosomatosis  is  a  Greek
word, which means conscious out of body experience.) The Inner
circle  members  wear  a  long  white  robe  symbolizing  Melchior’s
inner white garment when he removed his worldly outer cloak and
draped it on the Christ child’s manger. So the Inner Circle members
of the Researchers of Truth wear white robes, symbolizing their
purity of intent, dedication, and in reverence for that moment.
Each official Circle for the Research of Truth has the whole
teaching; “There is enough material in a few lessons to work for
hundreds  of  years,”  as  Daskalos  often  said.  The  teaching,  the
System for the Research of Truth, is complete. As students of this
system  we  do  not  need  more  theory,  the  knowledge  is  already
there in the teachings Daskalos so diligently brought forward. What

is needed however is for each student to make an honest effort to
investigate the truth directly; to find the truth about who and what
they are and be liberated from the suffering and illusions woven by
egoism.
Daskalos supervised these circles and also considered himself
a member of each of the circles. “No successor is needed.... When I
pass-over  I  will  continue  to  supervise  the  circles,”  Daskalos
promised.  Each  one  of  the  advanced  brother  or  sister  guides
heading an official circle represents Daskalos (as a teacher) to their
circle. Likewise, Daskalos represents the teachings of the higher
intelligences he is in contact with.
These  so-called  higher  intelligences  are  not  only  advanced
human beings who serve as disincarnated guides but also the Divine
intelligences.  These  great  intelligences  express  themselves  as  the
Archangels in all the orders known and unknown to man. Daskalos
introduced us to these and taught us how to come into conscious
communication with them. They rejoice in seeing us make our long
awaited approach. They welcome us and are ready to reveal their
high wisdom to any sincere seeker. Their Divine intelligence is so
immense  compared  to  our  human  intelligence  that  it  is  like
comparing the intelligence of a great scientist to that of a small
child.
Clearly  Daskalos  was  extremely  advanced,  as  were  the
teachings he skillfully planted in our hearts and minds. But what is
most important in the System for the Research of Truth is not the
personality of Daskalos or the leader of any circle. The System for
the Research of Truth is not a personality cult. Personality based
groups  can  be  very  dangerous  to  both  the  leader  with  the
charismatic personality as well as to those who follow them. What
is important in our system is the teaching, which has been carefully
preserved and passed forward for twenty centuries by the brother
and sister guides in the System for Research of Truth. The brother
and sister guides leading the Researchers of Truth Circles are not
accepting praise, adoration, or money for their healing work. They
are not expecting or accepting any greater respect than the respect
given to each and every circle member.

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
The system for the Research of Truth we are following is free
from fanaticism and religious prejudices. What are we researching?
We  are  researching  the  truth.  For  millennia  we  have  had  the
persuasion  to  seek  and  know  the  truth.  Why  seek  the  truth?
Because when you find the truth it will set you free. Free from
what? The truth sets us free from our suffering, pain and illusions.
Does  this  mean  that  other  spiritual  systems  are  not  good?  Of
course  there  are  many  other  systems  which  are  very  good,  but
there are also many other systems that are not good. So we must
be careful, use reason and observe the effects that any system has
upon  us  and  then  select  one  that  produces  good  and  tangible
results.
The Researchers of Truth are not zealously claiming we are
the only ones who found the truth. You can find the truth in all
serious religions and spiritual systems. There are many roads that
lead to the truth. Our way is good, and encourages the exploration
of other traditions and spiritual systems through the framework of
our  teachings;  knowing  that  it  is  by  comparison  that  we  come
closer to the truth. However, there are certain harmful practices we
discourage such as, dangerous breathing practices from the east, or
any channeling in which a person opens up to unknown sources
and energies.
God’s first gift to all beings is free will. And so we respect
free  will  of  all  and  will  never  take  advantage  of  the  financial,
emotional or mental autonomy of others. Everyone comes to the
truth at their own time and in their own way. The ultimate aim
may be the same for all, but the individual experiences we have
along the way will vary from person to person. A Researcher of
Truth will not try to get others to accept his or her beliefs. A
Researcher will not go out and try to solicit or convert others to
these teachings. The Researchers of Truth are not about spreading
the teachings, instead they stand ready to embrace those who come
to them and help them understand the meaning of the teachings in
anever deeper way.

The System for the Research of Truth has two legs. One is
the Esoteric Teachings, which are very necessary, and suggest a
path  to  follow.  The  second  leg  is  the  Esoteric  Practices,  which
when sincerely practiced, accelerate our movement along this path.
And the first and foremost qualification a person needs to engage in
the teachings and practices is sincerity with oneself and real love
for others. Now the path that is suggested by our teachings has
been tread by advanced Researchers of Truth who have gone before
us. And  they  take  greatenjoyment  in  keeping  the  path  well  lit.
They are not keeping it lit for their own progress, but to help you
on your way. Because they have taken an oath that says; “As long
as  there  is  pain  on  the  planet,  they  will  not  take  their
finaldeliverance.”They will be the last to reach deliverance. These
advanced ones are real brothers and sisters of mercy.
Some of you will also choose this path, because of your love
toward your fellow human beings. You will not make this choice in
the belief that you will sacrifice yourself for others. That would be
a mistake. Christ said: ‘It is mercy I want; not sacrifice.”If there is
even  the  slightest  trace  of  egoism  within  you,  you  might  be
tempted to think that you are making a sacrifice for others, but it is
not really so. Gradually we will make progress through incarnation
in matter, on the cross of the four elements: Earth, Water, Fire and
Ether. This is the way towards real life and redemption. This is the
way  to  the  real  resurrection  –  living  in  a  fully  awakened,  Self-
Aware state. This is a kind of life that cannot be compared with
the life most people are living now in the shadows of their illusions
instead of the light. And this lightwill rise from within each of us.
But unless you forsake your egoistic self – you should not expect
your  personality  self  to  be  resurrected  as  the  Soul-Self  in  Self-
Realization.

THE PRACTICE: PATTERNED BREATHING
Too  many  people  have  developed  poor  breathing  patterns
sub-consciously  and  poor  health  and  low  energy  levels  are  the
result. We come into this world and immediately draw our first
breath  of  life.  Normal  breathing  provides  a  certain  quantity  of
energy needed by our material body, but this is virtually all done
subconsciously. When we start consciously breathing in the proper
way, we can greatly increase the quantity of energy we take in and
store.  There  are  many  good  breathing  exercises  available  to  us
today. However there are also many bad breathing exercises that
can damage your nervous system, over stimulate the energy centers
or Chakras and in some cases bring on bouts of insanity. Breathing
affects the health of our body as well as our psychological health
too, so we must be very careful which ones we adopt.
A basic breathing technique that has been used for thousands
of  years  we  recommend  is  done  in  a  deep  but  comfortable
rhythmical pattern. Simultaneously our breath is to be coordinated
with our heartbeat, which is driven by the Pulse of Life coming
from the Holy Spirit. In breathing as with anything in life, steady
rhythms create harmony and produce balance, whereas unsteady
rhythms bring disorder and imbalance.
First  start  by  relaxing  your  body  and  dropping  all  the
unnecessary thoughts that race through your mind. And then still
all your emotions flooding your heart. Now start inhaling for three
beats of the heart and then without pausing, exhale for three beats
of the heart. In the beginning you may need to count to yourself as
your  breathe  in  and  out.  Later  you  will  be  able  to  hear  your
heartbeats as your breathe and not have the need to count.
Breath in through the nostrils for three heartbeats
During  the  1stheartbeat,  inhale  &  fill  the  lower  part  of
your lungs & abdomen
During the 2ndheartbeat, inhale &fill the middle part of
your lungs
During  the  3d  heartbeat,  inhale  &fill  the  upper  part  of
your lungs & chest fully

Then  you  immediately  begin  to  exhale  through  your  mouth  for
three heartbeats
During  the  1
st
  heartbeat  exhale  to  release  the  air  in  the
lower part of lungs
During the 2
nd
 heartbeat exhale to release the air in the
middle part of your lungs
During  the  3
rd
  heartbeat  exhale  to  release  the  air  in  the
upper part of your lungs
Repeat this for up to five minutes each day and in time it will
become smooth andnatural.
We start this practice with three heartbeats during inhalation
and exhalation then we can try with four or six. For those doing
healing work and psychotherapy they should practice until they
can do the six count breath. Much later one might advance to seven
or eight heartbeats. But be warned, forcing the breath or holding the
breath between in inhalation and exhalation can cause hemorrhaging
in the lungs. We do not do five heartbeats because that rhythm can
produce undesirable results too. Simply find one that you feel is
most natural and comfortable for you and develop your skill with
that one. Learning thisvital patterned breathing will be like building
a foundation for all our meditation practices that follow.

Chapter Three
A DAY IN THE LIFE OF DASKALOS
 
All you need is to practice; to make as part of your life the teaching
and to engage yourselves seriously, daily, with the right meditation,
learning the concentration, observation, and introspection. You
have to work; you have to use your own powers. Everything else,
books and brother-instructors are showing the way and helping
you, but – you have to toil yourself to find the truth, and to know the
truth concerning Life. ~ Daskalos
 
 
Traveling from America to Daskalos on the island of Cyprus
at the far eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea is a long journey.
After  the  typical  24  hour  passage  and  landing  on  the  coast  of
Cyrus in Larnaca we would immediately make our way to where
Daskalos lived in the capital city of Nicosia at the center of the
island. Approaching the city it is impossible not to notice a huge
Turkish Flag in the distance that had been carved in to a mountain
range in the Turkish occupied half of the island; it the largest flag in
the world according to the Guinness Book of World Records. It is a
painful  reminder  of  the  invasion  that  drove  40%  of  the  Greek
population from the north side of the island to the south. About
200,000  Greeks  lost  their  homes,  businesses  and  sometimes
familymembers as they ran for their lives to the south side of the
island. In anothercarving on a mountain range, in huge Greek letters
the Turks put the words: “The last time you ran, the next time you
will swim.” This was an ever present warning of the Turks desire
to drive the Greeks completely off the island.
In those days some of us English-speaking students would
often stay in an old style Cypriot hotel called the Averoft Hotel.
As mentioned before, the UN created a neutral zone between the
Turkish side and the Greek side that divided the capital city of

Nicosia.  This  partition  was  well-protected  by  armed  Turkish
soldiers  guarding  their  side  of  the  division,  and  then  there  was
about  two  hundred  feet  of  neutral  zone  guarded  by  the  UN
Soldiers. Then there were armed Greek Soldiers protecting their
side of the division. The Alveroft Hotel was a few blocks from this
troublingdivide. The inside of the hotel was made entirely of hand
crafted  wood;  wooden  plank  walls,  ceilings  balconies,  window
shutters, and furniture were all made from the same type of wood.
Typical of Cypriot structures at that time there were no window
screens. Because of the high heat the shutters had to be kept open
to let in the night air, which also let in packs of very aggressive
mosquitoes or Mozzies as the British students call them.
So after a restful night of sleeping in 100 degree heat with
flocks  of  commando  mosquitoes  sucking  your  blood  like  tiny
vampires, we would rise, eat a complimentary breakfast of hard
cheese and even harder white toast and head straight to Daskalos’
home.  Daskalos  home  was  actually  in  Strovolos,  a  suburb  of
Nicosia.  His  was  a  very  modest  sized  home  on  a  corner  lot
originally built from stone; but now covered in pastel bluish-green
stucco  with  a  clay  tile  roof  in  a  closely  built  neighborhood  of
similar constructions. An iron fence paintedan aqua marine color a
few yards in front of his home opened to lead to a small terrazzo
tiled  porch  with  long  planter  boxes  containing  many  plants.
Wooden louvered shutters also painted aqua marine covered the
windows to block the relentless Cyprus sun. The double entrance
doors  to  his  home  were  painted  metal  frames  with  full  length
textured glass inserts decorated on the outside with wrought iron
designs. If those doors could talk, it would take many books just to
contain  all  the  miraculous  stories  of  the  people  who  passed
through them.
Opening the door revealed a small living room with simple
chairs, couch and a coffee table. On the coffee table was an empty
fish  bowl  covered  in  purple  Smurf  stickers  that  belonged  to
Daskalos  grandson.  Paintings  of  unusually  colorful,  bold
landscapes hung on every wall; all painted by Daskalos. At this
point  in  time  the  walls  were  covered  with  light  tan  weave-like

wallpaper and the wood trimwas painted white. Potted cacti and
occasionally  fresh  flowers  and  greenery  brought  by  grateful
students appointed the room.
Often  in  the  morning  Daskalos’  daughter,  Panayiota  would
offer a Cyprus Coffee. Cypriots are very hospitable in general and
Panayiota  is  even  more  so.  Cyprus  coffee  is  actually  Turkish
coffee, but because of the historical problems with the Turks, the
Greeks refused to call it Turkish coffee. Cyprus coffee consisted of
about a teaspoon full of finely ground coffee, a shot glass full of
water  and  what  tasted  like  three  teaspoons  of  sugar  all  boiled
together and served in a little tiny coffee cup. As it cooled the
grounds would sink to the bottom of the cup and you would sip
the coffee from the top of the cup so as not to get coffee grounds
between your teeth... which I always managed to do anyway.
A typical day in the life of Daskalos in the late eighties, as I
observed, started at around 6 AM. He would get up eat and then
the local Cypriots would start arriving around 7:30 AM seeking
guidance  and  healing.  Then  around  9:30  the  Westerners  seeking
Daskalos’ help would start to stream in. They would come and sit
in  Daskalos’humble  living  room  waiting  their  turn  to  see  him
privately. When a person’s turn came, they would go and sit with
Daskalos in a small sitting room adjacent to the living room.
Entering  the  sitting  room  revealed  simple  upholstered
furniture, a built in wooden hutch with shelves filled with various
items such as a white eagle carved from marble, pictures, candle
sticks, crucifixes, a painting of Christ and other small items; many
of which looked like they were gifts given to Daskalos. A large
incense burner, like the kind used in the Greek churches, hung from
a nail in the wall that was covered in light grey wallpaper with
delicate white floral designs. Avery large symbol of life painting
hung on the wall and a loud grandfather clock that sharply ticked as
it marked the passing of your precious time with Daskalos. His
home was only yards from busy Pericleous Street in Strovolos.
Incredibly  noisy  motorbikes  without  mufflers  often  zoomed  by
drowning  out  Daskalos’  voice  from  time  to  time,  which  never
seemed to bother him.

Just sitting with Daskalos alone was an amazing experience at
many levels. One thing that was immediately apparent was the
degree of care and attention he gave each of us. His deep listening
and equally deep replies to your questions brought comfort and
insights. He even handled the not so important curiosity questions
with grace and sincerity. And he did not always wait to hear you
speak your questions before he answered them. He could hear your
thoughts  perfectly  clear,  and  would  often  spoke  to  your  silent
thoughts and questions.
Daskalos’ quiet human nature reflected his luminous Divine
nature  with  brilliant  simplicity.  His  full  attention,  deep  gaze,
purposeful movement, profound words, and even the gentle touch
from  his  massive  hands  disclosed  the  power  of  one  fully
established in the Self. At one level his appearance was that of a
common elderly Cypriot. Yet when he taught or healed, the power
of something much greater was revealed. What you saw when you
were with Daskalos, was seen partially through your own filter of
pre-set ideas and partially due to what he allowed you to see. On
rare  occasion  he  might  slightly  lower  the  veil  of  the  elderly
Cypriot. What stood before you then was a being with a strength
and radiance impossible to describe.
One day I took a well-known but controversial photo to him
for his reading on it. The image in the photo started with a print of
the Shroud of Turin. The so-called shroud of Turin purports to
have been the fabric they covered Christ with after his crucifixion
and allegedly bears the image of the crucified Christ. In 1985 an
Australian lady had a printout of the shroud of Turin and took it to
Sai Baba, the famous Hindu Swami in India. The lady takes the
printout of the face on the shroud and hands it to Sai Baba for a
blessing. Sai Baba takes the printout in his hand and produces from
it a sheet of glossy photographic paper that was blank. Now Sai
Baba is well known for his materializations and I had witnessed
some myself. So when Sai Baba passed his open palm over the
glossy paper a color image of the face of Jesus appears on it. The
resultant image was a more clearly defined face somewhat similar
to  the  face  on  the  shroud  but  more  real  looking. And  Sai  Baba

announces this is actually how Jesus looked. I had a copy of this
photograph and now I had an extraordinary opportunity to ask for
verification  from  Daskalos  who  as  a  Spirit  Soul  was  incarnated
with Christ in biblical Palestine. Daskalos had known the real face
of Christ and could remember it as easily as we can remember the
face of our dearest loved one.
So I took this controversial photograph to Daskalos and asked
if he knew about the Shroud of Turin. Daskalos replied, “Of course
I do, it was created by a Nun.” The earliest documented record of
the Shroud’s appearance occurred in 1350 AD. Interestingly, at the
time I handed the photo to Daskalos, three laboratories were each
doing independent Carbon dating tests on the linen shroud. Later
they announced from their tests that the shroud was made between
1260 and 1390 AD further collaborating that it was not possible
for the Shroud of Turin to have existed at the time of Christ.
So I asked him if this image in the Sai Baba materialization
was the real face of Jesus. He looked at the image for a bit, which
showed Christ with lighter hair than typical, dark brown eyes and
a beard. Daskalos announced the face was somewhat similar. Then
he started describing the face of Christ from his own experiences.
When he spoke, his love for Christ was clearly evident. Daskalos
described Christ’s eyes as soft green and not brown as shown in
this print. He talked about how Christ enjoyed lifeand always had
a  sweet  smile  on  his  face;  and  not  somber  like  he  has  been
historically depicted. He said to me,”Christ’s hair was not light
color,” as shown in Sai Baba’s image. “Christ hair color was like
yours”, he said softly and he reached up and pulled on a lock of
my brown hair.
After helping as many people as he could in the morning, at
10:30 Daskalos would leave his home and walk a couple of blocks
down the street to give the public lesson in the Stoa, with a pack of
smiling  students  happily  trailing  along  with  him.  Locals  in  his
neighborhood  would  sometimes  smile  at  him  and  give  the
traditional  Greek  morning  greeting  of  “Kalimera.”  Daskalos  had
some sensitivity with his eyes so he often wore aviator style dark
sunglasses as he walked to the Stoa. In the winter time, he would

drape a long black wool top coat over his shoulders during this
walk  and  with  the  sunglasses  and  his  height  gave  him  a  very
commanding look.
Daskalos gave daily lessons in the Stoa, which was a small
freestanding  stucco  building.  Outside  the  Stoa  students  would
gather in a small pleasant garden area. Typical of Cypriot tradition,
the yard had Lemon and Orange trees with Grape vines draped
across  a  trellis.  Daskalos  loved  flowers  and  cacti  and  these  too
were in the garden. At this time maybe 20 to 40 people young and
old  would  come  for  the  day’s  lesson.  They  were  mostly  from
Germany, Switzerland, and Austria, with the occasional American,
Aussie or Brit mixed in. All were eager to hear Daskalos reveal his
advanced teaching and perhaps witness a miracle healing.
Inside the Stoa, there were rows of cushioned chairs, paintings
of Christ and a Symbol of Life painting by Daskalos hung on the
walls.  Sunlight  filtered  into  the  room  through  simple  wooden
shuttered windows. Hanging across the front wall was a golden
curtain. Behind it, there was a simple wooden cross, a painting of
Christ  and  other  items  used  in  his  Inner  Circle  meetings.  Once
inside many pulled out their own tape recorders and placed them
on a small table next to where Daskalos was to sit. His chair was
just like the rest of the ones in the room. He did not sit on a stage
but on the same level with us all. There was no special decoration
or  flowers  or  guru/disciple  like  behavior.  Daskalos  required  no
special treatment or trappings. It was just Daskalos, his audience,
and the high teachings that came through him like a torrent of truth.
When  Daskalos  entered  through  the  doorway  a  powerful
silence fell over the room, the tape recorders were all clicked on and
everyone stood for the beginning prayer. Daskalos looked out at
his audience, flooding the room with his vibration. He was strong,
tall  and  the  energy  of  his  presence  gave  him  a  larger  than  life
appearance. His attention to the moment brought focus to us all.
Concentrating  deeply,  fingertips  touching  with  palms  apart,
Daskalos closed his eyes took a deep breath and spoke the opening
prayer. The first part of the opening prayer was the traditional
Lord’s Prayer.

The second part of the prayer was:
Absolute Infinite Beingness, God.
 
Everlasting Life, Love and Mercy.
 
Manifesting Yourself in Yourself as Your Total Wisdom and Your
Almightiness.
 
Enlighten our minds to understand You are the Truth.
 
Clean our hearts to reflect Your Love towards You and towards all
other human beings.
 
Amen
 
 
After  the  prayer  Daskalos  sat  down  and  began  without
hesitation,  expressing  an  un-broken  ninety-minute  stream  of
consciousness in words. He chose his words very purposefully
combining them in unique ways to express the lofty concepts of
his teachings. All of which he delivered in English with a thick
Cypriot accent. It was like spiritual white water rafting. The deep
and powerful currents of his thoughts carried the lecture, but it was
up to his audience to stay with the flow and catch his meaning.
This took steady concentration. Daskalos very often delivered the
public lessons starting first with an expansive description of the
Absolute Reality. Further, into the lessons he would narrow the
focus down to finely tuned, practical information concerning our
life  on  the  Earth,  occasionally  seasoned  with  hilarious  personal
stories from his own life. Daskalos, like Socrates before him, used a
technique  in  his  lectures  of  asking  and  then  answering  his  own
questions. He did this to draw your attention to very important
parts  in  the  teaching  and  to  get  you  to  start  your  own  line  of
reasoning  that  would  lead  you  to  a  fuller  understanding  of  the
advanced ideas presented.
From time to time, Daskalos would dive deep into one of the
many  branches  of  the  teachings,  going  deeper  and  deeper.  But

when he sensed he had gone too far and was losing his audience he
would stop and say: “I am afraid I have taken you into very, very
deep waters now and not all of you are expert swimmers. We must
come to shallower waters, to more practical work in order to reach
this level of knowledge.” And swimming in deep waters was an
excellent metaphor; it really was like he was giving us lessons on
how  to  swim  through  the  multi-dimensional  ocean  of  existence.
Also, for me, meeting Daskaloswas like swimming in a vast ocean
and then suddenly, silentlyhaving a great whale surface right next
to you. The enormity of this spiritual giant completely dwarfed
you  as  a  personality.  The  powerful  currents  of  his  massive
movements drew you along with him as he plunged deep in to his
profound teachings.
My  first  encounter  with  him  was  in  1989  and  it  was  a
fortunate time to have met Daskalos. He had purposefully kept a
low profile preferring to remain anonymous, but this was about to
change. Word of Daskalos the healer and mystic was spreading,
particularly  in  Germany,  Switzerland  and Austria.  However,  at
this moment in time, it was possible to come close to him and get
to  experience  a  bit  of  Daskalos  the  man  too.  There  were  such
enjoyable  moments  just  sitting  with  him  in  his  living  room  or
kitchen quietly. These ordinary times werealways extraordinarily
rich and pregnant with possibilities.
As  mentioned  in  a  2003  issue  of  Oprah  Winfrey’s  O
magazine, “Daskalos was widely regarded as the greatest Christian
mystic of modern times.” And he is important not only in what he
revealed, but also in the moment in time he revealed it. Currently
on the planet, people are living in confusion, fear and under great
tension.  The  overvaluation  of  the  material  side  of  life  while
underestimating  basic  spiritual  and  human  values  has  produced
great imbalances individually and globally. Like other enlightened
masters  have  done  age  after  age,  Daskalos  came  to  remind  this
generation of the truth and guide them back to the real Self and its
source. Daskalos explained that, “The teachings of the Researchers
of  Truth  have  appeared  throughout  the  centuries  but  only  in
fragmented  parts.”But  much  of  the  teachings  had  been  kept  in

secret;  passed  on  and  enriched  by  successive  generations  of
researchers, whilepurposely hidden from the public. However, as
Daskalos declared, “Times have changed and now it is permissible
to reveal much more.”
Daskalos and his message are especially important and well-
suited to the daily concerns and spiritual aspirations of those living
within  modern  culture.  Daskalos  lived  and  worked  within  the
framework of society. He held a job, raised a family, paid bills and
met  all  the  same  worldly  challenges  most  of  us  do.  It  is  not
possible for most people today to adopt a cloistered monastic life
or  an  ascetic  life  of  a  yogi  in  order  to  develop  spiritually.  But
traditional  religious  teachings  within  society  have  too  often
stagnated  intothe  dry  sands  of  ritual.  They  have  lost  the  vital
connection to the spiritual reality behind their teachings and thus
they are not satisfying the spiritual thirst within humanity. Many
alternative groups have risen up to meet this growing spiritual need
only to fall prey to the lure of financial reward. Instead of freeing
the people of materialism, they often end up fostering a kind of
spiritual materialism. Daskalos never charged those who came to
him. He even shared his meager pension money anonymously with
his neighbors when they were in need.
Today, Daskalos and his teachings are vitally important as
they offer both the theoretical framework and experiential methods
for  each  of  us  to  know  truth  directly  for  ourselves.  Daskalos’
spiritual  wisdom  and  knowledge  of  the  worlds  beyond  was  his
very own. It did not come from reading books or listening to the
dogma of a particular brand of religion or spirituality. His teachings
came from his own direct research of God, man and the nature of
reality,  which  confirmed  what  other  masters  in  the  past  have
revealed. Therefore what he taught was authentic and verifiable by
anyone who wants to make the effort to engage themselves with
these teachings. He was an exemplary citizen of two worlds within
the same reality: the luminous world of Spirit and the mundane
world of matter. Because of this, Daskalos’ teachings strike a chord
in  those  who  seek  a  spiritual  life  while  still  engaged  in  family,
careers  and  worldly  responsibilities.  Experiencing  Daskalos  up

close revealed a benchmark of the human potential. His way of
living and helping revealed what being human really means.
Daskalos had two daughters, which he raised after his wife
passed over. And he hadtwo granddaughters who tell how when
they  were  young  he  would  tell  them  livelybedtime  stories,
complete  with  sound  effects.  Daskalos  would  create  a  kind  of
never-ending bedtime story for the granddaughters just like he had
done for his daughters. And each night he would tell them a little
bit more of the story. First he would tell part of the story while
sitting on the bed of one granddaughter then he would move over
and sit on the edge of the bed of the other granddaughter and tell
the next part of the story. And he made the stories very funny but
also with a bit of teaching mixed in.
Daskalos had a grandson, who would often come to his home
after school dressed in the compulsory school uniform of black or
navy blue paints with a snow white shirt. It was clear that his
grandson loved Daskalos very much and Daskalos loved him very,
very much. And sometimes his Grandson would sit with a few of
the westerners at Daskalos’ kitchen table as they discussed the
teachings  in  English.  He  was  very  conscious  and  mature  for  an
eleven year old and he sat quietly watching while everyone elsedid
the talking. At the time it was assumed by most visitors that he did
not  know  English,  but  I  think  maybe  he  did  know  some  and
understood but chose to keep quiet anyway. One time we were
talking about how fast paced and crazy America was and we asked
him if he would like to visit America. The question was translated
into Greek and his Greek answer was that America sounded so
crazy he would not even want to fly over it.
Sometimes after school one of Daskalos young granddaughters
liked to come to the Stoa to see her grandfather after he gave his
afternoon Inner Circle lessons. She would come in the Stoa and
visit Daskalos and the other Inner Circle members who wore their
white robes for these advanced classes. So that the granddaughter
would not feel left out, Daskalos had a little white robe made for
her to put on when she came to visit them. This was the kind of
gentle loving care Daskalos gave...not only to his family but to all.

Everyone  coming  to  him  was  treated  with  respect  and  loving
kindness, which is the signof a true master.
After  the  daily  Stoa  Lesson  that  ended  at  noon,  Daskalos
would walk back down the street to his home for lunch. The street
was lined with colorful flowering bushes;with the occasional palm
tree  and  very  tall  and  very  narrow  Italian  Cypress  trees  that
Daskalos often painted into his landscape pictures. The walk was
accompanied by the aroma of fresh baked spanakopita from the
bakery across the street from his home. As he walked, the students
followed  happily  along  asking  him  questions  and  softly  talking
among themselves about the day’s lesson. After the Stoa lesson
many of the studentswent to asmallhome-style Greek restaurant
next door to Daskalos’ home for lunch.
After lunch Daskalos continued seeing students privately for
healings and personal guidance. Many felt that the time they spent
with Daskalos was some of the most profound moments of their
lives. I certainly did. Often he would deliver his helpful messages
in the form of a question comprised of a few well-chosen words.
His words were designed to get you thinking along the proper way,
and come to the truth yourself. It was easy to see that Daskalos
really loved his students and most of his students really loved him.
But every master who tries to reveal the truth at this level has their
Judases,  because  betrayal  by  those  you  love  is  a  required
experience at some point on the spiritual path. And Daskalos’ own
trial in this regard would be revealed over the next two years. This
spiritual  test  has  been  referred  to  as  the  Earth  Initiation  and  is
certainly one of the hardest initiations of all. To the uninitiated, it
can put the personality into the so-called Dark Night of the Soul.
Of course the Soul is never in darkness but it is like the light of the
Soul is eclipsed from the personality’s perception for a time and as
a personality you feel being alone in darkness. This experience is
something like when a sun passes in front of a cloud and eclipses
the sunlight; the cloud has not affected the Sun in the least, it just
blocks the sunlight from the Earth until the dark cloud passes and
you can see the Sun again.
Each day Daskalos received letters from all over the world

with requests for absent healing. The letters contained photographs
of  the  person  needing  the  healing  or  guidance  and  his  amazing
psychometric  abilities  could  coordinate  with  the  person  in  the
photo, know everything about them. And one of his ongoing works
was to reply to the lettersand send healing energies to those who
asked for help. Daskalos would hold the photograph in his hand,
attune  to  the  vibrations  of  that  person,  make  the  diagnosis  and
send  the  sufferer  the  appropriate  healing  energy.  Daskalos  was
very adept at reading vibrations from photos; he could discover an
incredible amount of information about the health of a person’s
material,  emotional,  mental  andspiritual  condition.  He  was  so
skillful at this he could tell instantly if the person in the photo was
living  or  had  passed  over.  He  often  detected  things  that  their
medical doctors had missed or misdiagnosed.
He would also recommend specific non-traditional treatments
that unquestionably produced lasting cures. Sometimes he would
recommend conventional medical treatments, as he was not always
opposed to modern medicine. But always he sent needed healing
energies to the patient. His ability to sense and identify the true
cause  of  a  patient’s  suffering  gave  him  a  distinct  advantage  in
prescribing remedies.
I came to experience his incredible sensitivity to vibrations
first hand on many occasions. People sought Daskalos’ ongoing
protection in their lives and I was no different. To meet this need
in  the  people  he  created  talismans.  For  one  type  of  talisman,
Daskalos  would  place  powerful  protective  energies  on  a  small
silver or gold six-pointed star. Long before the Jews called the six-
pointed  star  the  Star  of  David  and  used  it  as  a  symbol  of
Solomon’sseal; it was a used by the High Hierophants in ancient
Egypt and called the Sba Saas. Daskalos’ version of six-pointed
star also had a cross in the middle. For the Researchers of Truth its
symbolism is immense.
In brief, the upward pointed triangle of the six-pointed star
represents  Spirit.  The  downward  pointed  triangle  represents
matter. So the union of the two triangles represents the perfect
balance of Spirit and matter. This six-pointed star symbolizes the

human being who has developed these two principles within. The
cross at the center of the star did not stand for the Crucifixion. It
represented the balancing of the four prime elements: Earth, Fire,
Water and Ether. I too had gotten one of these talismans.
Several  days  later,  I  traveled  to  Cairo  Egypt,  where  I
purchased a small pendent of the Egyptian all-seeing eye. It was an
image associated with the Archangelic order of the Cherubim. The
next time I saw Daskalos I  asked  if  he  could  bless  this  and  he
agreed. I took the pedant out of a small bag that contained other
jewelry items and handed it to him. As he touched it, he instantly
replied that he had blessed it before and started to hand it back. I
explained that it was impossible as I purchased it in Cairo and just
now returned to Cyprus with it. He took it back placed it in the
palms  of  his  hand  and  took  a  slow  deep  breath.  With  full
concentration, he blessed it and handed it back to me. Then he
added in a more confident tone “I had already blessed it, it had my
vibrations on it!”
Not wanting to argue the point, I said nothing and started to
put the pendant back when I saw the six-pointed star talisman,
which he had blessed, in the same bag. So the pendant had come
into  direct  contact  with  the  six-pointed  star  talisman  and  been
charged with his energy. He was so sensitive, that he was able to
feel  his  own  vibrations  on  the  pendant  that  had  only  been  in
contact with the talisman for a short time. I pointed this out and he
confirmed that was how it had come to have his vibrations on it.
After an afternoon of work, sometimes Daskalos would give
an Inner Circle class in Greek in the Stoa and/or go to another city
and  give  a  lesson  to  one  of  the  many  independent  circles  on
Cyprus.  He  would  come  back  and  eat  dinner  and  start  seeing
people again and that would last until sometimes after 10:30 PM,
then he would work on the manuscripts for his books. I had seen
him writing as late as midnight before. When he found the timehe
would paint unusual landscapes and imbue them with benevolent
energies for people.
He was seventy-six at this time and started his day at six in
the morning then healing, teaching and counseling until midnight.

By his own admission he saw about 80 people in a day and most
of them would be healed of afflictions and helped. One day when I
was there he healed five atrophied legs in a single day. Daskalos
would flood each person he saw privately and his entire audience
duringcircle  lessons  with  great  quantities  of  etheric  energy.  Can
you imagine how much energy it took to do all that work each day?
How was this possible? Of course he could only do it because he
knew how to stay connected to the source of the etheric energy so
he was not just using his own personal energy supply. Otherwise
it would not have been possible to do what he did.
Daskalos would typically dedicate one day a week as healing
day. Of course, every single day was a healing day with Daskalos.
However, on this day instead of a regular lesson in the Stoa he
would give a short lesson then devote his attention to helping those
who had come seeking healing of one sort or the other.
During the healing sessions we all gathered in the Stoa and one
by one those seeking healings would come to up to him. There was
a  hushed  anticipation  in  the  room  as  Daskalos  began  his  work.
When  a  person  approached  him,  they  explained  a  bit  of  their
problem and then Daskalos would immediately begin working on
them. I sometimes positioned myself immediately on Daskalos left
side just slightly behind him so I could get a good view of his work
without being in the way. Of course, most of what transpired was
not visible to material eyes. Nonetheless, what was visible was
truly amazing. Many people came forward in these sessions. One
day there was a healing of a German woman.
This lady was on crutches with one leg distorted and shorter
than  the  other  leg.  Two  friends  helped  her  as  she  awkwardly
moved her damaged body to Daskalos. She did not speak English.
It did not seem to matter though as Daskalos immediately went to
work. He first took a long flat wooden ruler and measured her best
leg. Then he measured her distorted shorten leg. Those sitting close
to him could see on the ruler the difference of about two inches
between the two legs. Then Daskalos asked her friends to help
support her as he lifted her damaged leg up and began to stroke it
with a concentrated purpose.

He rubbed the leg with his hands for a short time then began
pulling on it. He pulled and stroked and pulled again for a few
minutes then re-measured the leg. During all this, the lady had a
slightly confused look about her. Daskalos set the ruler down and
again  stroked  and  pulled  her  leg  for  a  couple  more  minutes.
“There,” he announced assuredly and loweredthenewly restored leg
to  the  floor. A  wave  of  exhilaration  that  felt  like  warm  fizzy
bubbles swept through me as I now saw both legs equal and whole.
Once more, Daskalos measured her legs with the ruler verifying to
us empirically that her legs were now the same length.
Her friends and those sitting close began talking excitedly as I
looked up into her face. I was expecting to see relief, joy or maybe
even gratitude. Instead, her face revealed bewilderment as her mind
seemed to struggle to understand the healing she just experienced.
She left the Stoa whole but looked more confused than when she
approached. Her personality simply could not immediately grasp
the miraculous transformation that had just occurred in her body.
With Faith healing, we hear that a certain degree of belief and
Faith is a necessary component for a healing to take place. This is
true for Faith healing. However, Daskalos was not a Faith healer
and in this particular case; the lady’s personality exhibited more
disbelief than faithful belief. Yet, the healing occurred perfectly.
Later  he  explained  how  he  facilitated  the  healing  saying:  “You
cannot just lengthen only the leg; the tendons, bones and the veins
had to be lengthened too, giving them heat and life.”
First  Daskalos  said  he  would  create  a  strong  Elemental,  a
thought-from,  byvisualizing  the  leg  whole  and  healthy.  He  then
visualized  the  bones,  arteries,  veins  and  ligaments  just  as  they
should  be  –  perfect.  He  would  then  transfer  large  quantities  of
etheric  energy  in  to  the  Elemental  to  do  its  work.  But  the
visualization has to be very strong, and contain no uncertainty.
Then the healing Elemental will get that perfect form and if it was
permitted by the Holy Spirit, the leg would be restored.
For  most  who  observed  a  healing  with  obvious  visible
evidence, no additional proof was required. There had been others
though, who became more scientific about the proof of Daskalos’

healings.  They  had  followed  the  before  and  after  evidence  of
medical  x-rays.  X-rays  taken  a  few  weeks  before  Daskalos’
intervention  would  show  damaged  spines  and  dislocated  bones.
After  a  healing  session,  new  x-rays  revealed  normal  healthy
conditions as if there had never been any problem.
As soon as Daskalos would finish working with one person,
without a pause he was ready to receive the next. On and on they
came, as he worked continuously on all that needed him. It was
such a beautiful experience to witness. With certain people, I could
sense their fervent hope for a healing, which would also resonate in
me as my own desire to see them whole and healthy. It helps to
have others near you that want to help in the healing. We see that
in serious cases, Christ was often asking certain disciples to be
with him, while sending other disciples and onlookers away. Why
did he do that? Their ardent wish for the person to be healed and
the etheric energy they Sub Consciously contributed helped in the
healings. Likewise those around any healing work who have doubts
are sub-consciously sending negative energies that work against the
healing. So when engaging in healing work do not have people with
negative thoughts, instead have friends who you love and who love
you and wish to cooperate in the healing.
When there were no more to be treated, Daskalos went back
to his home for lunch. Now Daskalos always declared that it was
not  him  doing  the  healing. And  that  no  person  has  ever  healed
another person. It was God’s expression as the Holy Spirit that
did  the  actual  healing.  Even  when  Christ  performed  miraculous
healings he never took credit and would say it was God the father
that  did  the  work.  What  Daskalos  did  claim  was  that  it  was
possible for us to train ourselves to be fit conduits for the Holy
Spirit  to  work  through. And  for  physical  healings  that  training
included a good working knowledge of the human anatomy as seen
in the above atrophied leg case.
When the weekend came, his daughter Panayiota would take
Daskalos  to  Governors  Beach  on  the  Mediterranean  Sea  for
seclusion and rest. They made a place where he could rest in the
sun without being disturbed by the public. He loved Governors

Beach, where there was an unusual formation of white rocks on the
shoreline, which was one of the power spots on the Island.
Many years later, it was here on Governor’s beach that I had
my  last  conversation  with  him  before  he  passed  over.  He  was
sitting alone relaxing in a lounge chair gazing peacefully out at the
Mediterranean Sea. I went over to him and squatted down beside
him. We talked and he revealed some things to me that I did not
understand at the time but do now. He finished saying what he
wanted to tell me, and I thanked him.
As he was lying there relaxing in his chair, he made one last
statement. He said one of the things he liked to do that gave him
pleasure  was  to  spread  his  consciousness  out  over  the  entire
locality at the beach and become one with the wind. And in doing
this he could know everything going on in that locality. This he did
by expansion of his consciousness and not by an out of the body
experience.  Just  as  he  finished  telling  me  that,  a  gentle  breeze
washed over us. Daskalos eased back in the lounge chair, closed his
eyes and became one with the breeze. I left him to rest and I left
Cyprus soon after, not realizing that was to be our last earthly
conversation.
Diabetes  had  weakened  his  circulatory  system  and  later  a
blood vessel burst causing a brain hemorrhage in 1994 and he could
no longer speak. He lived for some months after the stroke, as
Panayiota believed, to give his family and students time to prepare
for his departure. And so he refused to try rehabilitation for his
stroke and passed over early in 1995 at the age of 82.
There  is  a  point  of  view  expressed  bycertain  Buddhists
regarding death, which says that the person passing over was only
“pretending to die.” The meaning is that the death of the material
body is only a change in conditionsand not a final annihilation of
the  person.  Passing  over  is  just  a  continuation  of  the  self-
consciousness  but  at  a  higher  level  of  existence.  Death  of  the
material body is not even the end of the personality nor could it
ever be the end of the Soul-Self.
Daskalos consciously drew his last breath as he passed out of
his material body and the earth plane. But as a Spirit Soul the earth

plane and all the planes of existence are always within him. So
really, he is still “here” – here with us in the Worlds of Existence.
And we can contact him anywhere we are. As he told us more than
once: “There is so much suffering in the world and as long as there
is pain on the planet, I will remain ‘here.’ As long and there are
eyes with tears I will be here with a handkerchief to wipe off the
tears.”Daskalos is truly one of the great brothers of mercy. He and
the others have taken this vow of service and will be the last to
take their liberation. Furthermore, for the those sincerely studying
and practicing the teachings of the Researchers of Truth, Daskalos
made another promisethat after he passed over he would remain in
faithful contact with each of them and would continue to guide the
circles for the Researchers of Truth.

Chapter Four
TAKE AIM
 
Ascending, ascending and ascending the ladder of evolution. That
is Self-Realization. This is the real aim of any Researcher of the
Truth, at least of the circles all over the world I am heading. How
can we, as human beings, find our real nature? How can the
boundless be limited? How can the imperishable become the
perishable?It is the Present-Day-Personality that must open up,
extend and develop that little self-consciousness to the levels of its
real inner nature and reach, what we call, Self-Realization. “Many
make the mistake to think that Self-realization means knowing the
Present-Day-Personality as it is. They make the mistake to think
that their Self is only their personality (the material, emotional and
mental bodies). When I say Self-Realization I don’t mean that. Of
course, you must start from this point – to analyze and know your
Present-Day-Personality.
 
But then, step forward and say: “I am not only that. I am
something more.” This means – After becoming the master of my
material body, the master of my emotions (Psychical Body) and my
thoughts (Noetical Body), I must break the mirror in which I see
myself reflected and see that I still exist and I still AM – without
seeing my image in the mirror. Who am I then? You are making the
mistake to consider you are the reflection of yourself in a threefold
mirror of matter, emotion and thought where you see your real Self
distorted very much. You have to get rid of the images in the
mirror. Then you will find who you are! ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
Before engaging our self with the teachings of the Researchers
of Truth or any teachings, we should have a clear idea of what is
our aim. Before anyone starts to go anywhere they should have a
good idea as to where they are going. It is not wise to head off into
the unknown, with no aim or without having something in mind.
We should know something about the way we are to go and to
understand what dangers we may encounter along that way. So
where are the Researchers of Truth going? We are going to find that
buried treasure, hidden in the field as Christ put it. That treasure is
the Inner Self – the Soul-Self Awareness. And we as a personality
start the search for the buried treasure by investigating who we are
as  a  personality,  which  leads  to  the  study  of  what  we  are:  an
eternal Spirit Being, an offspring of God just as the mastersin the
past have declared. We can find this most valuable treasure buried
in our personality self. Because even without us knowing it, at the
very core of the personality is that brilliant ray of our Spirit-Soul
Self, which is a true god within the one Absolute God.
There is a direction to our approach. Yet inherent with any
aim or direction is an expectation of what is to come. The problem
is  that  our  expectations  can  color  and  limit  our  experience  of  a
greater  reality  that  will  unfold  before  us.  Historically,  the  two
common approaches to God were a solitary path like a yogi sitting
motionless in a cave or by joining an organization like an orthodox
religion.
Addressing  the  problem  with  these  approaches,  the  10th
century Sufi mystic and poet, Niffari, wrote: “If you cast yourself
into the sea [of life], without any guidance, this is full of danger,
because  man  mistakes  things  which  arise  within  him  for  things
arising elsewhere.” This is a danger in approaching the Absolute
Infinite Reality alone and with no real idea of where we are headed.
Niffari continues: “If, on the other hand, you travel on the sea
in a ship, this is perilous, because there is danger of attachment to
the vehicle.” This is a danger in approaching the Absolute Infinite
Reality  via  the  vehicle  of  an  orthodox  religion  or  organization.

Niffari concludes with: “In the one case, the end is not known, and
there is no guidance. In the other case, the means becomes an end,
and there is no arriving.”
Alternatively, the teachings of the Researchers of Truth offers
a  system  by  which  each  one  of  us  can  use  to  approach  and
experience Truth directly. This is a system and not an organization
you join. In this system rather than a hierarchy of teachers and
gurus you will find loving brother and sister guides to help you
along your way. These guides never stand between you and God.
Instead they stand at your side to assist you on the great, great
journey of awakening. Their help never attempts to dominate or
limit your free will, which is one of the most important gifts from
God. These guides are both on earth and in the worlds beyond. The
service they offer to all human beings in the Worlds of Existence
addresses  the  triadic  nature  of  human  existence.  These  three
natures are the physical, emotional and mental.
Initially as a Researcher of Truth, we learn to work within
ourselves to restore and maintain the health of our material body.
We  work  to  calm  emotional  imbalances  and  to  clear  our  mental
confusion.  We  work  to  cleanse  and  harmonize  ourselves
physically, psychically and noetically. This restores balance and
purifies  our  personality.  Balancing  ourselves  we  are  then  better
able to assist those around us and to align with the Soul Self.
The healthy and balanced expressions of body, heart and mind
is truly a wonderful achievement. Yet, this is not the ultimate aim
of this system. The real aim of our system is Self-Realization. By
Self-Realization,  we  do  not  mean  just  realizing  our  present-day
personality,  our  little  self  and  its  transitory  expressions  in  the
Worlds of Existence. This is a necessary beginning but not the real
aim. By Self Realization, we mean full Soul-Self -Awareness.
So engaging in the teachings and practices of a researcher of
truth what can we expect? First we come to the preliminary kind
of  self-consciousness,  which  is  simply  becoming  aware  of  our
present-day  personality  self.  This  is  not  the  full  Self-
Consciousness we seek, but it is a necessary step. To know who
we are as a personality; means we know our unique setof thoughts

and emotions, strengthens and weaknesses; through the practices
of  Introspection,  Observation  and  safe  Meditation.  The
personality self is like an ice berg; only a small portion of it is
visible (conscious). There is another much larger portion, which is
not readily visible and remains as what we call sub-consciousness.
But the fully awaken individual, one we call a master, has no sub-
consciousness for he has made his sub-consciousness – conscious.
During  this  process,  we  seek  to  enter  the  state  of
consciousness  of  a  keenly  aware  but  emotionally  detached
observer. We want to be a pure witness to our thoughts, desires,
words and actions of the day. In doing so, we find places where we
could  have  done  better.  We  learn  not  to  say  and  do  things  we
should  not.  We  also  learn  what  action  or  words  would  have
produced  better  results. And  so  we  resolve  to  do  better  in  the
future and improve the quality of our character as a personality. In
other  words,  we  develop  the  strength  and  skills  to  control  and
change our behaviors, desires, feelings and thoughts. We become
masters of our home and of circumstances.
By  way  of  example  let’s  says  a  seeker  reacted  to  some
unsettling  circumstance  with  strong  anger  and  even  ended  up
speaking harsh words at someone. Now maybe at first the seeker
feels the urge to defend this behavior and lay the blame at the feet
of the other person. But in their nightly Introspection they use this
unfortunate  opportunity  to  deeply  research  what really  made
them act in this unacceptable way and discover the real cause was
their  egoism  feeling  offended.  Now  the  seeker  in  a  detached
analysis can see a better way he or she could have responded to
such a situation and resolve to do so in the future. Maybe that
sounds like a small gain but in truth it is a big gain, because this
means the seeker is conquering his own egoism and becoming the
master of his own home.
So we first learn to introspect on this day... this year this
lifetime  and  one  day  even  beyond  this  lifetime  to  previous
incarnations.  Practicing  introspection  over  time  you  will  find
yourself not just doing Introspection at the end of the day but also
during the day after a noteworthy event. Then as you take this

practice further, you will notice that automatically you start doing
Introspection  in  real  time  as  events  unfold.  And  this  skill  of
Introspection can and will be transferred to your experiences in the
psycho-Noetical Worlds– either when your material body is asleep
or in your life after the death of your material body.
When  we  discover  through  introspection  the  causes  of
weaknesses  and  afflictions  of  our  personality  self,  we  can  then
make steps to clean and correct these limitations. And we will be
successful  at  cleaning  and  thinning  the  veil  that  separates  our
personality self from the Soul-Self. And the radiant light of the
Soul-Self  will  shine  through  our  personality  self,  brighter  and
brighter, illuminating our way and benefiting those around us. Our
personality is like a colored cloth draped over the very bright light
of the Soul-Self. Personalities with unhealthy negative thoughts,
feelings  or  desires  darken  and  obscure  this  brilliant  light  of  the
Soul-Self. However when the personality is freed from negative
thoughts,  feelings  and  desires,  this  Inner  Light  shines  through
brightly;  lightening  their  own  life  and  the  lives  of  those  around
them.
It is at this stage in the process we discover something truly
extraordinary and to date un-noticed. We will begin to realize that
this  mysterious  Self  of  ours  is  able  to  change  the  undesirable
expressions  found  in  our  personality.  This  means  we  have
discovered the real Self behind our temporary personality self. In
time, we will gradually awaken to the truth that we are much more
than the personality we have created. We will examine, learn and be
able to transmute the lead of negativity in our personality’s heart
to the true gold of love in what the mystics call the real Alchemy.
We will discover the Self behind its phenomenal expressions in the
worlds of time, space and place. This isthe aim of a Researcher of
Truth: Self-Realization.

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
One  practice  that  Daskalos  insisted  must  be  done  by  the
beginner  as  well  as  the  advanced  seekers  of  truth  is  Daily
Introspection. Because it is this practice that will produce some of
the greatest breakthroughs and results for a sincere spiritual seeker.
And  the  result  is  real  freedom  from  troubles,  suffering  and
illusions. Introspection is one of the basic “Five Golden Keys” to
the kingdom of the heavens given in this system.
Daskalos observed: “Today people are living in confusion and
I said it is because they don’t know the nature of their desires and
emotions. They have enslaved their thought to serve their emotions
and  desires.  This  is  the  main  reason  causing  the  confusion  in
people around us today. Anybody has the right to use the Mind as
thought and reason in the same way he is using the air and vitality
by  breathing  and  living.  But,  why  don’t  people  want  to  use
reason?  It  is  because  people  do  not  want  to  come  out  of  their
illusions. Researchers of the Truth come out of their illusions by
self-analysis and introspection, studying their circumstances with
courage,  studying  the  nature  of  their  emotional  body,  of  their
desires, seeing that they created weaknesses, hatreds, jealousies,
and passions in their personality. Anybody can do this deep work
if he or she wishes to and comes to a conclusion to do it. But all
people, though they admit they are in confusion and in misery,
they don’t want to get out of it. How can you come out of it?
That’s easy, if you can come to the decision that you have to use
the  right  thinking  instead  of  just  following  the  stupid,  torturing
desires and emotions. So, there is no excuse.”
Introspection  cleanses  our  Sub  Consciousness  of  harmful
combinations  of  thoughts,  emotions  and  desires.  The  Sub
Conscious mind has three chambers. One of the chambers is like a
warehouse,  in  which  all  of  our  thoughts,  emotions  and  desires
reside. And this is the chamber where we will work during our
introspection exercises. Each day the thoughts, feelings, desires and
events of our life slip below the surface of our conscious mind and
rapidly amass in our sub-conscious mind. So in introspection we

start to examine, in a detached way, the events of the day. We are
not to make excuses of our behavior, and not to condemn ourselves
(or others) for less than desirable behaviors.
During introspection, internally we are finding the sources of
our  mental  and  emotional  behaviors  in  an  effort  to  consciously
structure our personality and its sub-consciousness. This releases
our  conscience  from  undesirable,  outdated  and  unnecessary
thoughts,  emotions  and  ideas.  Introspection  is  also  called  self-
analysis and looking within. But it is not the Soul-Self that needs
Introspection or analysis; it is our personalityself-awareness that
needs this in order to blossom into true Self-Awareness. This is a
primary practice of a Researcher of Truth or anyone seeking Self-
Realization.

THE PRACTICE: DAILY INTROSPECTION
EXERCISE
Each  night  just  prior  to  sleep  (when  your  subconscious  is
more  permeable)  inhale  and  exhale  in  a  4:4  pattern  and  relax
completely. (Four beats of the heart during the in breath and 4
beats of the heart during the out breath)
Either lying in bed or sitting up (try not to fall asleep) begin
to  recall  the  day  from  start  to  finish.  Review  each  event,  each
encounter; of the day and with full impunity and leniency towards
yourself and others ask yourself the following questions:
What did I think or feel that I should not have thought or felt?
What did I not think or feel that I should have thought or felt?
What did I say that I should not have said?
What did I not say that I should have said?
What did I do that I should not have done?
What did I not do that I should have done?
 
The goal is not to blame or to praise yourself or others, but simply
to observe your activity and work to correct your behavior. Praise
and blame are like two sides of the same coin; they are dualistic and
we must rise above the world of opposites. With time you will
grow  more  accomplished  at  seeing  yourself  and  will  find  that
advancement in your worldly life and spiritual life will accelerate.

Chapter Five
SEVEN LEVELS OF CONSCIOUSNESS
 
Now, we have spoken about matter and we talked about the
vegetable kingdom, the different varieties of luminosity of Light, we
spoke about the animal kingdom, again another degree of
luminosity of Light, about things in the ethereal and in the Psychical
Worlds, and in the Noetical World. So, we have the sensitivity and
the sensibility in matter and in the vegetable kingdom. Now, the
animal kingdom has the instinct. The human beings have the sub-
consciousness and I am telling you that ninety percent of the human
beings living on the planet today are living subconsciously. Yet,
there is the waking consciousness. How many are expressing this
waking consciousness and know what they are doing? How many?
Very few! We have to unfold in us, our real Self, which means our
real Self-Consciousness. And we should aim to unfold in us, the Self
Super-Consciousness. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING:
There is a dynamical expression of God, which in Christianity
is called the Holy Spirit. It is the Almightiness, the Omnipotent
characteristic  of  God.  It  is  the  Pan  Universal  Feminine  and  the
giver of life. We see this Life manifesting in us and in all the living
forms around us. There are countless life-forms on the Earth but
there is a distinction between The Life and the various forms of
life. God as the Holy Spirit is not expressed as a personality, it
does not have self-awareness; it does not need it, because it has
another boundless expression: the Absolute Super-Consciousness.
God as the Logosis the Absolute Self-Super-Consciousness.
From  God,  the  Logos,  the  Holy  Spirit  and  all  the  Eternal
Spirit Beings, the Mind Super-Substance emanates. And it is used
in the creation of all the Worlds of Existence and everything in
them. But this Mind is not God or the Holy Spirit. And yeteven
this super intelligent medium called Mindis comprised of Divine
Principles, Laws and Causes.
As consciousness we are cells in this Absolute Holy-Spiritual
Consciousness.  As  self-awareness,  even  self-awareness  asa
personality  self,  we  are  cells  in  the  Absolute  Logoic  Self-
Awareness. So we have the two: consciousness and self-awareness.
But as a Spirit-Soul Self we arealso much more than cells, we are
The Life, the Everlasting Life.
A human being expresses his or her self in a sub-conscious
waytoo  much  of  the  time.  To  reach  the  highest  level  of
consciousness  we  must  unfold  our  sub-consciousness  to  alert
consciousness, and further to Self-Consciousness and one day to
the  highest  level  of  Self-Super-Consciousness.  Not  only  is  this
possible for a human being, it is desirable and eventually everyone
will reach the state of Self-Super-Consciousness. It is the destiny
for all of us. It does not matter if that destiny comes in this lifetime
or centuries from now it will come. What will we know in this
Self-Super-Conscious  state?  We  will  know  that  we are  an
immortal Spirit-Being Self. It is not that we have an immortal Self;
that is the wrong way to think about it; because as a personality

we  do  not  possess  the  Spirit-Soul-Self.  The  right  way  to  think
about  this  is:  I  am  a  Spirit-Soul-Self  that  has  a  body  and  a
personality.
Now all the degrees of brightness, of the luminosity of the
Divine light are manifested as the seven levels of consciousness.
Also each degree of the luminosity of the inexhaustible Divine Life-
Light gives us one of the so-called seven heavens. And the main
difference between these seven heavens is the brightness of this
magnificent Divine Light. In each of these higher heavens there is
much  greater  light  than  can  be  found  in  the  material  plane  of
existence. If we would compare the brightest day on earth with the
light  in  the  Psychical  Worlds  it  would  seem  like  we  were
comparing the light in a dungeon with the light of a crisp, clear fall
day. As a human being we have the right and the calling to develop
our  personality  to  the  highest  level  of  consciousness.  This  is
something  the  animal  life  cannot  do.  They  cannot  raise  their
consciousness  from  their  instinctive  level  to  any  higher  level  of
consciousness. So we study and develop all the possible stages of
human  consciousness  from  sub-consciousness,  to  fully  alert
consciousness, to real Self-Consciousness or Soul Self Awareness,
to the Self-Super-Consciousness. Then the realization will come,
that we are not the expression of consciousness, we are the Self
which can express all the various levels of consciousness.

First Level of Consciousness: Sensitivity
The  mineral  kingdom  is  living  and  expressing  a  kind  of
consciousness known as Sensitivity. Iron is consciously sensitive
to moisture and will rust. It undergoes change and decomposes.
Likewise silver’s sensitivity will cause it to tarnish when exposed
to air. Metals also have sensitivity to heat and electricity; and will
conduct both in varying degrees. Mineral crystals are living and the
pattern of their growth exhibits their consciousness of sensitivity
to the force of gravity. Experiments on the Space Shuttle proved to
scientists that in zero gravity crystals grow larger and more neatly
ordered than on Earth. Pizo-Crystals are sensitive to pressure and
under  strong  pressure  they  emit  electricity.  Pyro-Crystals  are
sensitive  to  temperature  and  when  heated  they  also  produce
electricity.  Sensitivity  is  a  level  of  consciousness  and  is  a
characteristic of the mineral kingdom. Throughout the entire natural
world we see life expressing different levels of consciousness.

Second Level of Consciousness: Sensibility
The next level of consciousness is called sensibility and it is
first found in the plant kingdom. This type of consciousness is
particularly noticeable in flowers. Flowers exhibit a great deal of
sensibility. They have a remarkable ability to sense the light of the
sun. The plant kingdom is very conscious of night and day. Some
species like water lilies are so conscious of the sunlight that they
open their blossoms when they sense the first rays in the morning
and  close  back  up  when  the  sun  sets.  Some  flowers  sense  the
movement of the sun and turn to follow it closely as it moves
across the sky.
In temperate climates as the winter gives its place to spring;
the amount of sunlight increases and the consciousness of the plant
kingdom senses this and comes alive with fresh growth. Within
weeks the plants and trees send forth buds, blossoms and leaves in
an amazing demonstration of materialization. The Divine Plan calls
for an immeasurable abundance of life on Earth. The entire plant
kingdom has the second level of consciousness called sensibility,
and also has the first level of consciousness called sensitivity. The
sensitivity consciousness of plants also senses heat, gravity and
chemicals.

Third Level of Consciousness: Instinct
Coming  to  the  animal  kingdom  we  see  life  expressing
sensitivity, sensibility and another higher level of consciousness
called instinct. The migration of fish, birds and other animals are
prime examples of this inborn instinctual consciousness. Animals
instinctively give birth, nurture their offspring; they instinctively
seek food and protect their territory. The animal kingdom does not
use the mind as thought like humans. Rather they are governed by
what have been called the Nature Spirits. These Nature Spirits are
the projected angelic Elementals from certain classes of Archangels.
Many people have come into conscious contact with these living
entities. These Nature Spirits govern the life of an animal (or a
plant)  and  live  within  them.  Observing  animals  closely  we  can
detect the great wisdom and intelligence ruling all these forms of
life as instinctual consciousness. What we are calling instinct is a
kind of intelligence behind the animal that gives each animal such
protection that it makes us astonished at all this wisdom. Who or
what is giving this level of conscious intelligence to the animals?
The  animal  life  also  has  the  first  and  second  levels  of
consciousness called sensitivity and sensibility. They eat, sleep,
wake up, go around searching for food in the wild, give birth and
die. And that is all they can do. All of them are following their
instinct. Every cell in our body has its own kind of instinctive
consciousness. Like the animals, the human beings express instinct
as well as sensitivity and sensibility. But unlike the animals the
consciousness of a human being is not only confined to theselower
states.

Fourth Level of Consciousness: Sub-Consciousness
In the human kingdom we see expressed all these three lower
levels  of  consciousness:  sensitivity,  sensibility  and  instinct.  We
also  see  another  type  of  consciousness  in  man  called  sub-
consciousness. It is called sub-conscious because it operates in a
habitual way just below the surface of our awareness. The average
person operates sub-consciously too much of the time. The sub-
consciousness is composed in part of all the thoughts, emotions,
and desires we experience in our life. These are the Elementals that
make  up  our  personality  and  shape  our  character.  Collectively
these  form  a  limited  type  of  self-awareness.  This  shadow  self-
awareness  is  not  our  real  Self-Awareness  and  thus  it  is  always
changing.
Human beings are gods covered in illusions and in a state of
amnesia, forgetting not only where they came from but who they
really are. The Elementals cannot be seen with the material eyes
but  can  be  seen  in  their  etheric  form  by  a  clairvoyant.  The
Elementals take a form; if you could see some of them you have
created that host in your sub-consciousness they would frighten
you. Their form is especially disturbing when the Elemental has
been created by strong feelings of hatred, jealousy and desires of
taking revenge or destroying what others have. In this regards, the
sub-consciousness  is  like  anuntamedwildernesswith  someangelic
Elementals and with some devilish Elementals. The territory of the
Sub Consciousness is not well known to the average person. And
yet  in  our  Sub  Conscious  mind  are  all  the  lessons  learned  in
previous incarnations. And at the same timewe can findin our Sub
Consciousnessthe very lessons we need to learn next in order to
advance spiritually.
Consciousness however is in knowing that we know, while
sub-consciousness is all that we have known in the past, which
now only exists to us as memories and habits. The habits are a
result of having in the past, used our consciousness to train and
learn certain actions and skills. So it is the consciousness that is
enriching  the  sub-consciousness.  This  means  that  whatever  is

coming  to  our  conscious  mind  gets  transferred  into  our  sub-
conscious mind. And we must not confuse sub-consciousness with
unconsciousness. Unconsciousness means that the material brain is
not receiving any impression from the outer world through the five
senses.
Even  the  limited  self-awareness  of  our  personality  has  the
ability to use the Mind as thought. Animals cannot use the Mind
as  thought  nor  do  they  have  self-awareness.  They  have  a
consciousness as described above and a governing Angelic Nature
Spirit which expresses its wisdom through that animal. However,
human beings are Eternal Spirit Beings and are a separate creation
from  animal  kingdom.  Animals,  plants  and  minerals  are  Holy
Spiritual expressions and do not have a Self. Rather they are living
creations of Super-Conscious Archangelic orders. It is the Selfhood
of a human being that sets us apart from the animal kingdom. Our
bodies share common characteristics with the bodies of animals:
flesh, hair, bones and blood but not much more than that.
The  sub-consciousness  is  primarily  located  in  the  material
body’s  solar  plexus  and  at  the  same  time  it  is  found  in  the
Psychical and Noetical Bodies. The sub-consciousness is the base
of our personality’s egoism. Proportionally, our sub-consciousness
is  similar  to  the  ocean.  The  surface  of  the  ocean  is  like  the
conscious part of our mind. The sub-conscious portion of the mind
is symbolizedas everything under the surface. At any time, we can
draw to the surface of consciousness as memory what has been
stored in our sub-conscious mind. And sometimes these rise to the
surface of our consciousness spontaneously or when triggered by
an event. We can swim on the surface of the ocean or we can dive
to the bottom of the ocean. It is the same ocean, the same water;
likewise it is one consciousness whether we call it sub-conscious,
conscious or even super-consciousness.

Fifth Level of Consciousness: Consciousness
God has given the human race the great gift of using the Mind.
This has afforded humankind the opportunity to raise his or her
slumbering sub-consciousness, to fully alert waking consciousness.
But this is not our ultimate aim of Self-Consciousness. And there
is a great range of waking consciousness from somewhat conscious,
to more conscious, to more and more conscious. It is this process
that gradually replaces sub-conscious thoughts and emotions with
more  and  more  alert  conscious  thoughts  and  feelings.  For  the
human being, there is only one mind but expressed in the states of
sub-consciousness,  consciousness,  Self-Consciousness  and  Self-
Super-Consciousness.
A Researcher of Truth makes the effort to discover and know
what consciousness is as he assimilates with it in order to express
it better and better. Which is revealing that consciousness is not
our self; consciousness is our expression. Slowly we will unfold
spiritually as we increase consciousness until we attain full Self-
Super-Consciousness. Teachings and teachers can point the way
but they cannot take us there. This cannot be taught by teachers,
masters or by reading books. It needs long training. To reach this
beautiful and true Reality, we must be the one who climbs the
ladder  of  consciousness,  passing  through  high  states  of
contemplation, meditation, ecstasy and bliss.
In making this climb we will develop our self-consciousness
to  different  degrees.  But  know  that  the  Self  is  something  very
different from the consciousness that the Self, expresses. Many
spiritual systems of study mix up the consciousness and the Self
and  imagine  that  they  are  one  thing.  The  consciousness  is  the
expression  through  the  mind  of  the  Self,  which  is  behind  the
consciousness. This means any person’s self-consciousness at any
level, it created by how that self uses the Mind. And what we
think of as human waking consciousness of a personality is very,
very limited compared to real Self-Consciousness and Self-Super-
Consciousness.

Sixth Level of Consciousness: Self-Consciousness
Raising our consciousness to still higher levels we will one
day reach the true Self-Consciousness. This is the real spiritual
awakening. Full Self-Consciousness is the total realization of the
Soul-Self-Awareness. True Self-Consciousness or Self-Awareness
does not have degrees or levels. It is a state of conscious awareness
of the Self within the Divine Plan. And it is attained by effort and
will-power to awaken from the slumber of everyday consciousness
into expanded Self-Awareness. This is Self-Realization and it is the
real  aim  of  the  Researchers  of  Truth  and  any  sincere  spiritual
system.  Self-Realization  means  knowledge  of  the  Self.  Self-
Realization does not mean just knowing our little personality self
with its strengths and weaknesses.
Because  we  have  discolored  the  reflective  quality  of  our
personality’s consciousness with lesser emotions and thoughts it
cannot reflect the light of the Self well. Just as muddy water cannot
reflect the beauty of the natural world immediately next to it, a dull
and dirty personality cannot reflect the glorious reality of Soul-Self
Awareness. This is also a reason why we do not remember our
past lives or experiences of other dimensions. It is not that these
things  do  not  exist  –  they  definitely  do  exist!  It  is  that  we  as
personalities  have  allowed  our  daily  consciousness  to  become
soiled  by  base  desires,  impure  emotions  and  worldly  interests.
This  has  dimmed  and  limited  our  ability  as  personalities  to
perceive and reflect the light of our true nature. So it falls to the
personality to clean up its consciousness and sub-consciousness in
order to reflect more and more of this perfect light.
This is how we “raise our consciousness” to higher levels. We
begin through the practice of Introspection and then develop our
abilities to observe and concentrate in order to discover and remove
unclean/unnecessary  thoughts  and  emotions  lurking  in  our  sub-
conscious  mind.  With  great  courage  we  enter  our  sub-
consciousness  using  the  Golden  Keys  of  Introspection,
Concentration and Observation. This means we must study our
personality self and find the quality of our emotions and thoughts

that are composing our sub-consciousness. In the lair of the sub-
consciousness you will find a very challenging adversary who is
the  cause  of  all  our  troubles.  But  by  cleaning  and  aligning  our
personality we can eliminate this enemy and reflect the light of the
Soul in much greater measures. What is the result? An initial result
is  that  we  will  live  a  happier  and  more  harmonious  life. And
eventually, we will realize the true Self-Consciousness.

Seventh Level of Consciousness: Self-Super-
Consciousness
Beyond  the  level  of  Self-Consciousness  there  is  the  Self
Super-Consciousness.  Self-Super-Consciousness  means  total
awareness within the Worlds of Existence (past and present) as
well  as  total  awareness  in  the  realms  of  Beingness.  Self-Super-
Consciousness goes beyond the limiting concepts of time, space or
place  of  the  three  Worlds  of  Existence.  Super-Consciousness  is
beyond  any  person’s  ability  to  describe  in  words  yet  it  is  the
intrinsic characteristic of our Spirit-Soul-Self and the ultimate state
of  consciousness  of  every  Spirit  Being.  Super-Consciousness  is
also  called  Christ  Consciousness  and  is  the  highest  state  of
consciousness as it is based on true archetypal ideas. Whereas the
various  lower  states  of  ordinary  consciousness  are  constructed
with the relative ideas held in one’s mind. The self-consciousness
of humanity has a wide range; from deep ignorance with very little
light of knowledge, all the way up to the most luminous states of
knowledge  and  wisdom.  Self-Super-Consciousness  is  Total
Awareness  in  both  existence  and  in  the  state  of  Beingness.  In
Christianity this is known as Theosis and in eastern schools it is
known as God Consciousness. It is full At-One-Ment with God
the Absolute Infinite Beingness. It is the long awaited return of the
Prodigal  Son  to  his  loving  father.  What  lies  beyond  this  is  so
magnificent that no human being can adequately describe it.

PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
Observation means that we try to notice and understand what
we are seeing in our life, in our relationships and in our hearts and
minds. Nothing should escape our attention, which means we aim
to  be  fully  awake.  Observation  means  attentiveness  but  it  is
attention without any tension. Most people go through life with
only a vague idea of how things work and have not developed their
power of Observation to penetrate deeply into the nature of the
reality they find themselves in. Also the practice of Observation
needs Concentration to go with it. If you cannot concentrate well,
you  will  not  be  able  to  observe  keenly  or  fix  and  hold  your
attention  to  meditate  properly.  Observation  and  Concentration
enable us to skillfully investigate our inner and outer world; raising
our  consciousness  to  the  highest  levels.  Observation  and
Concentration are vital skills needed by a Researcher of Truth.

PRACTICE: WALKING MEDITATION WITH
RECOLECTION
The Buddhist know the benefits of walking meditation very
well, and the Researchers of Truth have a similar practice but with
the added element of recall. After a walking meditation we sit and
meditate to recall the details of our walk. This not only develops
the  skills  of  Observation  and  Meditation  while  raising  our
consciousness  but  it  also  improves  memory.  You  can  do  this
practice anytime you will not be disturbed. It can be done inside
your home or office, but it is especially enjoyable to do it outside
in your neighborhood, park or woods.
1. Sit for a few minutes and coordinate your breathing with
your heart beats. Breathe in for four beats of the heart and without
a pause, breathe out for four beats of the heart. Do that for a few
minutes until you feel a heighten sense of awareness. Then stand up
and very slowly start your walk.
2. Notice everything encountered on you walk in as much
detail as possible. Notice the size, the colors the textures of the
objects  you  see.  Notice  any  smells  or  sounds  that  you  may
experience. Walk in this alertness for fifteen minutes as you absorb
as much of your environment as possible returning to the place
where you started. Repeat this exact same walk for a few days in a
row.
3. Then after a few days of this practice add the recollection.
Now when you return to the place where you started sit down and
relax completely. In your mind recall all that you have seen in as
much detail as possible. Recreate all the details clearly in your
mind: the sights, smells and sounds as you experienced them on the
walk. This will not be hard because you have been studying all
these things for several days.
4. The next day go for the walk again and try to notice those
things that escaped your attention on previous walks. When you
return sit for ten to fifteen minutes as you recall the walk. Now you
will start to observe that the images of the scenes stored in your
memory are recalled in much greater detail.

Once you attune to the stored image of the walk in your mind,
you will be able to enter it to observe more and more subtleties in
this detail rich holographic-like image. In this living image we call
a memory; all the details are there and can be relived at any time
through recollection. The more you practice this exercise the more
and more detail you will start to observe. And with increased skills
in Observation you can extend your new found ability into other
areas of your life. In time Observation actually becomes a way of
life for you.
 

Chapter Six
EVERYTHING IS MIND
 
We said that everything existing, everything that existed or will
exist, is made of the Super-substance we call the Mind. The Mind is
Holy. But, the Mind is not God. Mind is the stuff by which the Holy
Spirit and the Holy Archangels (the builders) have created all the
universes. The material universe, the so-called Psychical universe,
the Noetical universe, and everything in them. Whether you know it
or not, you are using the Mind. Sometimes making very bad use of
it. Making yourself the slave of your emotions. Now, it’s up to you
to change and make new decisions. You can use the Mind. It is our
“daily bread” given to us by our Father – God.
 
Our life on the planet is just to learn the nature of matter and the
Mind in all its vibrations (as emotions and thoughts) in order to
become masters of matter and of the Mind. This is the aim of life.
You may say “Yes, we are living in this material plane, but, oh,
there is so much suffering, so much pain, and so much misery.”
Yes. Maybe these are the necessary conditions to wake us up so that
we may understand that our aim in life is just to become masters of
matter and Mind. And, I said, the more bitter the experience that
comes to us to wake us up, the greater the lesson that is given. ~
Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
Once Daskalos was giving a lesson in Cyprus on the subject
of The Mind. After the day’s lesson on The Mind, as the other
students were dispersing, I caught up to him and asked a question
about  an  aspect  of  The  Mind.  Apparently  it  was  the  wrong
question.  He  seemed  to  ignore  my  question  and  replied  in  a
powerful   voice   that   still   reverberates   in   me   today:
“EVERYTHING IS MIND”. His one sentence answer catapulted
me  up  to  a  much  higher  view  on  the  subject  than  my  limited
thinking had understood so far. It was as if I was sitting on the low
end of a seesaw and a giant foot came down swiftly on the other
end. In an instant, I was catapulted a mile higher and now looking
down on the subject from a much greater vantage point.
What  he  was  trying  to  get  me  to  understand  was  that
everything is produced by the Mind and everything is the Mind
manifested at different frequencies, different densities of vibration.
And  that  even  what  we  call  physical  matter  is  the  Mind  made
solid. So it is the Mind in different states that is composing the
elements, the building blocks of Earth, Water, Fire and Ether. Mind
is used by God and the Archangelic Orders in all of creation. In
order for God and the Archangels to express themselves in and as
creation, they must have a means of expression and this means is
the Mind. And so the Mind was created and is created and will
always be created. The Mind is not God or the Holy Spirit, but is
a  Holy  Super-Substance  through  which  God  expresses  Itself in
Itself, which means in Its omnipresence.
The Mind is expressed in many different rates of vibration.
At the highest rate of vibration it is the Mind Vitality as formless
Super-Substance  and  at  one  of  its  lower  rates  of  vibration  it  is
called the Etheric Vitality. The etheric counterpart of the material
universe is the finest version of physical matter. It is invisible to
the eye but it is part of the three dimensional physical universes.
And  the  vibration  of  the  Etheric  Vitality  can  be  lowered  still
further in the process of the materialization of solid mater.
This is what Christ did when he materialized the loaves and

fishes to feed 5000 men. It took a couple of hours to do this and
they had a surplus of twelve baskets of food after everyone had
eaten their fill. Daskalos and at least one other living Researcher of
Truth have also been able to materialize food.
So what is dematerialization? Dematerialization is the raising
of  the  vibrations  of  solid  mater  to  the  rate  of  vibration  of  the
Ethereal and higher, which makes it disappear from the sight of our
material eyes. Daskalos and others have demonstrated this. How
did  they  learn  this?  In  the  visualization  practices  we  learn  to
visualize forms and then dissolve these etheric forms. These are the
preliminary steps that after long practice can lead to the skills of
materialization and dematerialization. Not that materialization or
dematerialization  is  the  aim  of  our  work,  it  is  not.  However
Daskalos was adamant that such a skill be only used for healing
and not to impress others. Referring to his wonders and miracles
Christ explained: “Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me
[which means whoever believes and learns what I know and teach]
will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater
things than these.”
Now  those  builder  Spirit  Beings,  the  Archangels  of  the
Elements,  use  the  Mind  to  create  everything.  Following  the
blueprint of the Divine Plan with all its Archetypal Laws, Causes,
Principles and Ideas, these Archangels commence their great works.
They  create  all  the  Worlds  of  Existence  (Noetical,  Psychical,
material  and  their  etheric  counterparts).  They  create  everything
existing in these worlds including the plant and animal life. In their
creative work, these Archangels first lower the vibrations of the
formless  Mind  Super-Substance  to  the  frequency  of  Noetical
Substance to build the fifth dimensional Noetical Worlds. It is here
in the Noetical Worlds that we first see the appearance of forms –
All kinds of living forms.
Lowering the vibrations of the Mind to a slower frequency,
these builder Archangels use the Mind now as Psychical-Substance
in the creation the Psychical Worlds and all the life-forms living in
these fourth dimensional worlds. These life-forms are like the ones
known on earth and also other life-forms that do not exist on Earth.

Lowering the Mind to an even denser vibration these Lords of
the Elements create the material universe in a blaze of light. “Let
There Be Light” as it is stated in the Bible or as it is called by
Science  the  “Hot  Big  Bang”.  The  Archangelic  orders  literally
materialize  the  Mind  into  Matter  in  the  creation  of  the  entire
physical universe. Here the Noetic Laws, Causes, Principles and
Ideas,  now  appear  as  the  laws  of  physics  discovered  by  the
scientist. These laws govern and control the long, long evolution of
our physical universe in its progression as it coalesced into all the
galaxies, suns, planets, and moons. This physical universe is as
dense as the Mind vibrations get.
The  Mind  is  not  separate  from  life.  It  is  not  Life,  but  an
expression of life and so the Mind is living. And one of the natures
of the Mind is called imprinting. It imprints or records everything
and nothing is lost. It is like a living memory. We refer to that
characteristic as the Cosmic Memory, the Cosmic Consciousness
or the Akashic Records. It is, has and always will be recording
everything  taking  place  in  the  creation  of  all  the  universes  and
everything that happens in these universes. Even the movement of
small  insects  on  earth  is  recorded.  A  mystic  or  advanced
Researcher  of  Truth  can  develop  to  the  point  of  being  able  to
contact  the  Cosmic  Consciousness  of  planet  earth  and  see  in
moments what had taken place in centuries. He or she can also
connect to the Cosmic Consciousness of our solar system or the
Cosmic Consciousness of our Milky Way Galaxy. This is due to
the fact that all the planets, suns and galaxies are floating in the
Super-Substance  of  the  Mind.  And  the  Mind  is  recording
everything occurring in it. This makes the Cosmic Consciousness
the most reliable source of information available – at least to those
who can access it.
But  when  people  read  the  Cosmic  Memory  they  are  not
always reporting what they see in the same way. Why? It is like
the first explorers who came to America and drew maps of what
they  saw.  None  of  these  early  maps  are  exactly  the  same.  So
different  explorersdrew  different  maps  of  the  same  place.  It  is
similar  with  those  who  can  access  the  Akashic  records  –  the

accuracy  of  their  descriptions  depends  on  their  powers  of
observation  and  concentration. And  not  all  who  can  access  the
records  have  the  same  level  of  skill.  What  is  needed  to  see  the
recordings is not sight but mind. The Greeks have a saying that it is
not the eyes that see and the ears that hear it is the person’s mind
that sees and hears. Many can contact the Cosmic Memory but
what are they seeing? Some clairvoyants are honestly describing
what they saw there. But what they are really seeing is according
to their self-development. If you take a child, a teenager, an adult
or an elderly person to a park and leave them there for awhile. Each
person has eyes that can see what is going on in the park. But
when you come back and ask them what they saw, each will have
noticed what interests them and will not have noticed all the things
that interested the others. It is the same with readers of the Cosmic
Memory.
Sometimes people would say to Daskalos, that they wanted
to  become  a  clairvoyant.  Oftentimes  he  would  laugh  and  say
something like, “What for? Do you want to know the reality of
Life or simply catch glimpses here and there that are coming from
the Psychical planes and then color it according to the quality of
your personality and claim you are seeing the truth? Clairvoyance
and clairaudience means nothing if the one who is supposed to use
it is not developed.”
Many  can  enter  the  Cosmic  Consciousness,  which  is
everywhere. But what these people are telling us about the Cosmic
Memory  shows their  own  level  of  development  as  they  color
what  they  have  seen,  which  is  revealing  the  quality  of their
personality. We must not rely much on the descriptions of those
who consider themselves a clairvoyant before they are properly
developed. Developed first as a healthy balanced personality and
then as Soul Self-Consciousness. Before they reach that kind of
development  they  may  see  recordings  in  the  Cosmic
Consciousness, but what they understand about what they see is a
different matter.
Again  this  formless  Super-Substance  of  the  Mind  is
everywhere outside of you and inside of you. Anyone can learn to

use it consciously and once you do use it, you know for sure it
exists and no one can make you doubt its reality. But unless we
ourselves learn to use the Mind in Observation, Concentration and
Meditation, it will not matter how many spiritual books we read,
how many spiritual teachers we visit, we will not benefit much. So
how do we come to live a happier and more satisfying life by using
the Mind? It is here in the densest of all the Worlds of Existence
that  we  find  ourselves  as  personalities  seeking  to  unfold
spiritually. To do this we have to initially sit down, use our mind
to think consciously and come to conclusions. Through meditation
we will come into the meaning of God, and that of our real Self.
What  will  be  the  outcome?  By  using  the  Mind  as  right
thinking, by means of Concentration and contemplation, we may
claim more powers. One day, we will reach a point, where we no
longer  depend  on  knowledge,  which  we  receive  from  our
environment, from the outside world. We will gain new powers.
These  are  the  powers  of  Concentration,  Attunement  and
eventually At-One-Ment. But first we must use the Mind to clean
and  purify  the  personality,  to  learn  how  to  disentangle  our
personality  from  our  troubles,  illusions  and  live  a  better  life.
Slowly  and  surely  we  will  free  our  personality  from  its
misidentifications,  its  illusions  and  its  intoxication  with  the
material world. As researchers of truth, we begin this effort with
our own personal reality. We begin by introspecting on our own
actions and especially our re-actions to the people and conditions
around us right now. We research all this by using our latent power
of  observation  to  expose  incorrect  thoughts,  negative  emotions,
enslaving desires, and unhealthy life patterns; that seal us off from
truth, love and ahappier life.
What will this line of research produce? We will discover that
our thoughts, emotions, and desires (good or bad) are ours; we are
responsible for them and their effects on us and those around us.
They  are  ours  but  they  are  not  us!  They  are  ours  and  we  can
change them, improve them or abandon them completely. So if we
are not our body, not our emotions, not out thoughts, then what
are we? This is what a seeker must find out. We must discover

who  and  what  we  really  are.  In  doing  so,  we  learn  about  our
conflicting strengths and weaknesses. Now we discover something
of our Psychical Body, the body of our emotions. This is the body
that we will find our self in after the death of our material body.
And we will also come to know about our Noetical Body, the body
of our thoughts. This is the body we will find our self in after the
second death as it is called in Revelations. But even the second
death is not the end of our research;we will continue on to discover
and experience what we are beyond our three bodies and what we
are even beyond the Human Form. The indescribable experiences
that await seekers that do not faint in the face of challenges, trials
and tribulations are beyond our comprehension or even our best
imagination.
Even with a basic concentration on something simple like a
flower,  it  is  possible  to  become  one  with  the  flower  and  in  an
instant know everything about the flower. In this way of study we
can learn things about the object of our concentration that would
have  taken  years  of  normal  study.  This  is  the  power  of
concentration,  leading  to  attunement  and  At-One-Ment.  So  by
Observation, Concentration and Meditation a Researcher of Truth
can  know  so  much  about  the  life  forms  all  around.  Orthodox
science is using material instruments to do the same. So both are
studying the living forms of life, but can anyone understand these
living  forms  without  having  a  source  of  that  life?  Can  we
understand something living that moves without having a source of
energy that causes that movement? To study means to know by
Observation and Concentration what the reality is, that is behind
everything we see and experience.
Using Observation and Concentration, we start Meditation.
We will develop our ability to concentrate in order to hold our
attention and continue meditating. Otherwise, a swarm of thoughts
and  feelings  will  enter  to  disturb  and  derail  you  intended
meditation. As a Self-Aware Soul we all can concentrate and study
things.  But  as  personality  self-awareness  our  unruly  hoard  of
thoughts,  feelings  and  desires  arises  to  distract  us  from  our
intended concentration. But we can overcome this disturbance by

insisting on concentration. In the beginning, when you do this, the
personality will continue to try and distract you; not just a few
times but many, many times. You remain undisturbed as the Soul-
Self  and  keep  on  insisting  to  hold  your  concentration  and  your
personality  will  keep  on  intervening.  Give  this  repeated
intervention no importance, in time it will subside. And in the end,
you  as  a  Soul-Self  will  be  able  to  hold  the  concentration,  calm
down the personality and lead it into wisdom. All the answers we
seek are held by the Soul-Self, but the personality must enter a
state of calm coordination to be able to access these answers.
We  all  gain  knowledge  about  the  world  around  us  in  the
normal  way  by  concentration  on  objects  and  conditions.  We
perceive  something  we  want  to  know  about  as  being  separated
from ourselves. And the moment we do that we are expressing our
self. We concentrate on the object or condition and that gives us
knowledge  about  it.  Knowledge  in  the  world  comes  from  a
concentration by the self on something that can be perceived but
not the reality behind the perception. As we advance spiritually,
we proceed through the perceptible towards the reality and this
eventually gives us knowledge of the reality that has given birth to
the perceptible. You cannot reach this point through blind Faith or
reading  about  it.  You  come  to  this  only  though  your  direct
experience.
Developing the skill of Concentration empowers Meditation,
but  you  need  to  ask  yourself,  “Who  is  it  that  is  actually
meditating?” Is it your body that meditates? Is it your brain that
meditates? What means are you using to meditate? The means is
the  Mind.  We  may  be  tempted  to  call  the  Mind  intelligence,
perception or thought; but these are just the expressions of the
Mind. We have to go beyond the expressions to find out what the
Mind truly is.
Developing Observation and Concentration skills we also gain
powers  of  Visualization,  which  leads  to  real  clairvoyance.  But
sometimes in the beginning of their development researchers may
make theerror to think that what they see in visualization is really
clairvoyance. Daskalos had a student who after some practice said

to him: “Daskale I can now go to London!”
Daskalos replied, “Seriously? How can you go to London?”
The student said, “Yes I went there many times and got to
know it. Now I can close my eyes and move about in the streets of
London.
Daskalos asked him; “When were you physically in London
the last time?”
“Eight years ago,” he replied.
“Tell  me,”  Daskalos  continued,  “what  changes  have  taken
place in London in the last eight years? If you cannot detect the
changes that have taken place then, my dear, what you see in your
visualization is only what you have seen eight years ago. You have
brought  all  that  to  your  mind  from  your  sub-consciousness  by
your thoughts and you move about in this Elemental image. This is
a good visualization but you did not go to London! Why don’t you
go to Paris or Brussels”
The  student  replied,  “But  I  have  never  been  to  Pairs  or
Brussels, so how can I go there in my visualization?”
“You  cannot  go  somewhere  in  your  visualization  that  you
have never been before. You cannot recall something that you have
not placed in your sub-consciousness.” Daskalos concluded.
Obliviously  the  student  was  not  going  to  London  as  he
thought he was by an out of body experience (OBE) or astral travel
as some call it. And this is a common mistake; to confuse a good
visualization with an OBE. And yet if that seeker continued with
the practices of Observation and Concentration one day he can find
himself in London and will be able to see the physical changes that
have actually taken place and not just a detail recollection from his
memory  of  London.  He  will  have  accomplished  this  by
transporting  to  London  by  OBE  or  what  Daskalos  called
Exosomatosis. But this student was satisfied by just moving about
in the Elemental, the thought-form of London, he had in his sub-
consciousness. And  by  doing  this  he  created  an  obstacle  to  his
progress and the development of a real out of body experience.
With  practice,  Concentration  and  Meditation  comes  real
power that when mastered will broaden your life. Once you get

this skill you use it for the most needed study of the book of your
life. We all have written many pages in the book of our life in the
past and every moment we are continuing to write new pages in
that book. Study to see what pages you have written in the past
and what you should be writing in the future. Because on these
pages  we  are  writing  the  script  for  our  life  and  we  follow  that
written script going forward in life. Do not lament badly written
pages in the past, those unpleasant things in your past serve as
important lessons you needed so as not to write new pages in the
future as bad as those. This line of effort will produce ahappier and
better way of life for you and those around you. And in time you
will raise your consciousness from its lower sub-conscious states
to  more  and  more  conscious  states  all  the  way  to  Self-
Consciousness  and  Self-Super-Consciousness.  This  means  the
seeker of truth, over the course of time, will be able to assimilate
his personality self with his or her real nature: the Spirit-Soul.
By  using  the  Mind  we  are  formulating  our  thoughts  and
emotions,  which  creates  Elementals  (good  or  not  so  good)  and
these determine the quality of our personality. We do not receive
readymade  thoughts  and  emotions.  Without  understanding  what
we are doing, we get the Super-Substance of the Mind and form it
into thoughts and emotions then empower them to various degrees
according to our interests. So we are all in touch sub-consciously
with the Super-substance of the Mind. This means everybody has
been  granted  the  right  to  use  the  Mind,  in  the  same  way  that
everyone is entitled to use the air to breathe. No one has been
granted greater privileges to use the Mind than anyone else. There
are no limits, no prohibitions; it is just a matter of your will, your
effort to train and time.
Knowing this we can start to use the Mind consciously in
creating a better life and a personality of a better character without
egoism. What is the goal of this work? We will never reach a goal in
this effort. But what we will do is to develop our personality self-
consciousness  to  higher  levels  as  we  master  our  emotions  and
thoughts. We will continue ascending this evolutionary ladder to
reach Self-Realization.

Think of the first cavemen living precariously in a dangerous
environment so hostile to their existence that both cavemen and
cavewomen were carrying heavy clubs to protect themselves from
wild animals. They were using the Mind to protect and express
themselves. Later on mankind started using the Mind to express
themselves in better and better ways. So the expressions of the Self
were better, but the Self was always the Self. Do not confuse the
expression with the source. In truth, we are not developing a Self;
our  Self  is  a  perfect  offspring  of  God,  an  eternal  Spirit-Being,
which needs no development. What we are doing is developing the
skills of expressing that Self in a better and better way over time.
That is why it is called Self-Realization. We are not trying to build
and develop a perfect Self. We are trying to wake up from our
illusions in order to realize the perfect Spirit-Soul-Self we are, were
and will always be.

THE PRACTICE: CONCENTRATING THE MIND
The  ability  to  concentrate  the  Mind  is  very  necessary  for
creative thinking, healing and meditation. Success in the spiritual
world or the material world depends on our ability to concentrate
the mind. Thus it is necessary for us to be able to concentrate all
our thoughts on a subject of investigation or contemplation. We
can also concentrate on an emotion or thought all by itself. When
we choose to focus our undivided attention, we ourselves should
choose a definite length of time for this concentration. And hold
the concentration so firmly that nothing can distract us or pull our
attention away. There are no limits to how far concentration can
take us once it is developed.
Concentration is using the material brain to focus the Mind
Super Substance to know more and more about something. Still it
takes practice to get the skill of doing this in the right way. The
process is somewhat similar to using a magnifying glass to focus
rays of the sun. On a clear day in winter it can be bitter cold. But if
you take a magnifying glass and concentrate a few sun rays on to a
pieces of paper at the proper distance it will catch fire and give
you warmth. Similarly when we use our brain to concentrate it
becomes like the magnifying glass and focuses rays of the Mind
Super-Substance on to the object of our concentration and it gives
us knowledge about that we wish to know.
Now the secret of living happier is in knowing how to use the
Mind in the right way as reason, Concentration and Observation;
instead of the wrong way by enslaving the Mind to unnecessary
and uncontrolled desires all the time. By desiring one thing after
another,  on  and  on,  we  are  using  the  Mind  to  serve  only  our
emotions  and  we  call  this  life.  Just  fulfilling  one  desire  after
another, year after year is not the kind of thing that makes for a
happier  life.  It  is  just  another  form  of  slavery.  But  our  ardent
intent is to become free of this kind of slavery in order to find our
real Self.

PRACICE: ROSE CONCENTRATION
Take a physical red rose and hold  it  in  your  material  hands.
Concentrate your attention on the rose, without feeling any tension
in your body or mind. Observe its shape, color, size as you turn it
around in your hands. Feel the velvety petals, notice the subtle
colors and hard smooth stem with the sharp thorns. Lift the rose to
your nose and inhale its fragrance. Concentrate and take in the full
beauty of the rose.
Set the rose down and close your eyes and breathe deeply but
comfortably for a few minutes. Now using creative Visualization see
yourself holding the rose in your hand. Concentrate and see the
rose clearly in your mind’s eye. See its shape, color and size. Feel
the hard waxy stem and sharp thorns. Feel and see its veined green
leaves and is soft velvety red petals. Visualize bringing the rose to
your nose and recreate its rosy fragrance. Look into the center of
the rose and see how all the petals unfold around this center. Hold
the image of this fragrant red rose steady in your mind for a bit and
then see yourself giving it to someone you have difficulty with. Offer
the red rose to this person with peace and love.

Chapter Seven
THREE WORLDS OF EXISTENCE
 
Place is a definite condition of the three Worlds of Existence, the
material world (which is in space) and of the Psychical World and
the Noetical World. They are the Worlds of Existence and of place.
When Christ was going to the home of His Father, He said: “In my
Father’s home there are many mansions. I go to prepare a place
for you.” He didn’t mention space.
 
So, the Psychical World is exactly the same as the material world.
There you can see mountains, seas, lakes, trees, everything. The
Psychical World of our planet is exactly the same as our material
world, and in it there are many, many things and much, much more
than what you can find on the material plane of our planet. And,
that’s the world we’ll some day pass over to and leave behind our
material body. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING:
The threemain Worlds of Existence are the Material Plane, the
Psychical  Planes  and  the  Noetical  Planes.  They  interweave  and
coexist  together  just  as  do  our  material,  Psychical  and  Noetical
Bodies. Our three bodies are the vehicles we use to inhabit these
three worlds. It is within these Worlds of Existence, that we as
personalities  create  our  own  conditional  paradises  or  hells.  We
build  our  paradises  or  hells  in  all  three  worlds  simultaneously
without really understanding what we are doing. We call these self-
created  paradises  and  hells  conditional,  because  our  life  in  the
material,  Psychical  and  Noetical  worlds  is  a  condition  of  our
conceptions.  As  such,  they  are  not  permanent  realities  but
temporary shells we construct with our thoughts and emotions.
Our  positive,  noble  thoughts  and  loving  feelings  create  our
paradises. Our negative, ignoble thoughts and unkind feelings create
our hells.
The  third  century  Christian  Bishop  and  mystic,  Origen,
taught in his schoolsthat the duration of our hell was not eternal.
Rather it was temporary, and it was only proportional to the guilt
of  the  personality.  Origen  also  taught  that  the  consequences
experienced in these conditions would stop in time and the end
effect  would  be  to  purify  the  personality.  We  must  study  our
personality’s conceptions in order to understand them, break free
of the illusions and realize the reality of our Inner Self.
Everything  in  the  Three  Worlds  of  Existence  is  under  the
phenomenal law of duality. The dual in one and the one in its dual
expression: Hot and cold, up and down, good and bad, in and out,
etc. All life forms, in all the Worlds of Existence, have the law of
duality  at  work  in  them  and  around  them.  Our  material  bodies
manifest this duality. We have a brain with two lobes. We have
two eyes, two nostrils, two ears, and two lungs. Our heart has two
upper  chambers  and  two  lower  chambers.  Our  body  has  two
hands, two feet and so on. All the forms of life in these worlds
have a temporary existence. They are born, they live and then their
material form dies. Moreover, while in these worlds, all the forms

of life undergo change – constant change.
Spiritually  speaking  about  all  the  known  universes  in
existence; it is as Daskalos put it: “The universes, as the texture of
God, pour forth in Space.” So he is saying Space is a Nature of
God.  Now  scientifically  speaking  about  the  composition  of  the
material universe it is as Einstein put it: E = MC
2
. This equation
means  Energy  can  be  transformed  into  matter  and  matter
transformed into energy. So Energy and Matter are two sides of
the same coin. Energy and Matter are one. Why, because matter is
condensed Energy. So to a physical scientist the entire material
universe can be considered as comprised of only two things: energy
& space. But we find this energy, or what we call Mind Vitality, in
many different rates of vibration, from lower to higher.
The  three  Worlds  of  Existence  are  the  Material  World,
Psychical  Worlds  (sometimes  called  the  Astral  Worlds),  and
Noetical Worlds. Connecting these three worlds is the Etheric; each
of  these  three  worlds  has  an  Etheric  counterpart  which
interpenetrates, surrounds and connects these worlds. Within these
worlds, our planet has a material existence as well as a psychical
and  Noeticalexistence  –  three  states  of  existence.  A  rough
comparison  can  be  drawn  with  water,  which  exists  in  three
physical states as solid ice, liquid water and gaseous vapor. It is
just its energetic state, its rate of vibration, which determines if
water is in a solid, liquid or gaseous state.
All of the Worlds of Existence are made of Mind in different
rates of vibration from the most refined levels to the densest. The
Material Plane is the lowest vibration of Mind manifesting as solid
matter. Daskalos would emphasis this point repeatedly saying, “
Matter  is  Mind  made  solid.”  Vibrating  at  slightly  higher  rates,
Mind manifests as the psychical substance used in the creation of
the  various  planes  and  sub  planes  comprising  the  Psychical
Worlds. How does the law of duality manifest in the Psychical
Planes? The psychical planes are worlds of emotions, desires and
sentiments. So the law of duality here manifests as attraction and
repulsion. Kind, loving feelings create the attraction whereas hatred
and uncaring feelings create repulsion.

The  Noetical  Worlds  are  mind  worlds  of  a  still  higher
dimension; but they too have a beginning and will eventually come
to an end. In the lower Noetical Planes, the law of the dual is still
at work. Beyond the lower Noetical Planes, we start to lose the
temporal  experience  of  duality  as  we  approach  the  unity  of
Beingness  in  the  Eternal  Now.  Here  evil  is  experienced  as
undeveloped good or simply ignorance of the truth as the Hindus
teach.  Here  is  where  we  find  the  full  happiness  we  have  been
expectantly seeking in the Worlds of Existence as we enter into
states  of  ecstasy,  bliss  and  beatitude,  which  have  no  dualistic
counterpoint.
For most of us, our attention is so focused outwardly on our
world of the three dimensions that we do not even consider the
possibilities of the other dimensions and levels of reality. We also
lack  the  theoretical  framework  and  the  personal  experience  that
would adequately provide us a sense of these dimensions. It may
be  initially  difficult  to  comprehend  the  worlds  of  the  higher
dimensions  but  everyone  understands  that  we  live  in  a  three
dimensional world. In this dimension, we understand relative space
in the three dimensions – height, width and length. The Material
World  is  the  entire  three  dimensional  universe  and  everything
existing in it. It is under the limits of both space and time. That is
to say, the Material World is under the constraints of measurable
distance and the progressive sequence of events as measured by
hours, days, weeks and years.
The Psychical and Noetical Worlds (Psycho-Noetical) give us
a similar sense of place and have natural landscapes and everything
that  exists  on  the  material  plane.  There  are  also  many  more
beauties there than are present on the earth. All these planes in all
the  universes  are  creating  a  continuum  of  worlds.  The  obvious
difference between them is the amount of light experienced in each
plane. This gradation of the light and vibration give us the sense of
the lower and higher planes in these dimensions.
On  the  material  plane,  the  main  characteristic  of  light  is
reflection. We see the various material objects around us when light
is  reflected  off  them.  In  the  Psycho-Noetical  Worlds,  light’s

characteristic  is  self-illumination;  here  every  particle  of  Psycho-
Noetical substance emanates its own light. The Psychical planes
also  have  different  governing  laws.  The  sense  of  time  is  also
different there and not measured in hours, days or years. And yet,
in the Psychical Worlds there is still the sense of time as passing
events.  The  psychical  counterpart  of  Earth  interpenetrates  our
planet and extends thousands of miles around our planet but does
not touch the psychical counter parts of the other planets in our
solar  system.  The  Noetical  counterpart  of  our  planet
interpenetrates  and  extends  much,  much  further.  The  Noetical
counterpart of Earth is in contact with the Noetical counterpart of
other planets and heavenly bodies. Our entire solar system floats
within the Noetical.
With training, it is possible to learn to cross into the Psychical
plane  consciously.  However,  everyone  is  crossing  into  the
Psychical planes subconsciously when they sleep. “Dreams do not
exist,” as Daskalos often declared. “Dreams are experiences you
have in the Psychical planes,” he further explained, “but you bring
back the memories of these experiences to the material brain in a
jumbled and fragmented way and so they do not seem real to you.”
Often after waking from sleep you may remember a dream
and start telling it and say; “I was some place...” The Psychical
planes are giving us a sense of place. In the Psychical planes, we
lose the sense of space but not the sense of place.
Space  is  different  from  place.  Place  is  a  definite
understandable condition. The material universe exists in space; its
vastness is beyond our understanding. Within our galaxy there are
over 200 billion stars of which our sun is but one. Our Milky Way
Galaxy is so large that it would take light 100,000 years just to
travel  across  it.  Beyond  this,  there  are  billions  and  billions  of
galaxies in the material universe.
Our earth is rotating at over 1000 miles per hour on it axis. In
the time it takes you to read this paragraph you will have moved
about 50 miles in space due to earth’s rotation alone. Where in
space did you really go in those 50 miles? At the same time, the
earth is orbiting around the sun at 67,000 miles per hour. And our

sun and earth are rotating around the center of our Milky Way
galaxy. Furthermore, our galaxy is traveling in space too. And at
the same time everything in the entire material universe is in a state
of outward expansion; with every galaxy, star, planet and moon
moving farther apart from each other. So we are constantly moving
vast distances, in a spiraling motion through space. So space itself
is  not  giving  us  any  meaning  except  the  relative  space  between
measurable objects. It is the sense of place that gives us meaning.
The Psychical and noetical planes are worlds that give the sense of
place.
Just because these are non-physical worlds, we should not
think they are abstract or less real than the more familiar material
world. They are not. Conditions there can last much longer than on
the material plane. In the fourth dimension, the sense of place is
determined  by  rates  of  vibration.  In  the  third  dimension,  two
objects  cannot  occupy  the  same  location.  But  in  the  fourth
dimension, many objects can exists in the same location without
mixing up. The closest three dimensional similarity to this occurs
with  television  broadcasts. As  we  all  know,  different  television
stations broadcast different programs, which are all around us in
the same locality. All the many programs exist simultaneously in
our  living  room  without  mixing  up.  That  is  because  they  are
transmitted at different frequencies – different rates of vibration.
We can tune our television to receive one program and not receive
the  others  co-existing  in  the  same  location.  Something  similar
occurs in the fourth dimension and we experience different places
of this dimension by our attunement to the specific frequencies of
these  different  places.  It  is  all  about  attunement.  The  Esoteric
Practices  of  our  system  teach  us  how  to  raise  and  lower  our
vibrations  and  attune  to  different  frequencies.  These  exercises
provide us with the means for conscious “movement” within the
higher dimensional universes.
The three Worlds of Existence are worlds of forms – living
forms.  The  fifth-dimensional  Noetical  World  is  where  the  laws,
causes,  principles  and  ideas  of  the  higher  Noetic  State  are  first
expressed as forms. The forms on earth are but reflections of the

forms found in the Noetical Planes. For something to exist in the
third or fourth dimension, it must have a counterpart in the fifth-
dimension. Every form existing in the material universe exists in the
Psychical Planes and the Noetical Planes.
In the Noetical Planes, time loses its meaning altogether. The
Worlds of Existence are realms of condition and perception but are
not the ultimate Reality. From this point we advance and penetrate
through the perceptions of these worlds to the Reality behind our
limited perceptions. We cross the threshold from the time, space
and place Worlds of Existence into the Eternal Now; into the time-
less, space-less realm of Beingness.
Now when we say Worlds of Existence we mean these worlds
have been created, exist for a time, and in some distant future will
cease to exist. All the heavens and everything in them have been
created using eternal, immutable Divine Law-Causes. These Divine
Laws are permanent but the mundane heavens created from these
laws do not last forever. Speaking to this, Joshua Immanuel the
Christ declared: “... it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than
one  tittle  of  the  law  to  fail.”  (tittle  means  the  smallest  part  of
something)  It  was  these  Divine  Law-Causes  and  the  Worlds  of
Existence he was referring to.
The  Noetical  Worlds  are  worlds  of  thought.  The  Noetical
Worlds have seven main planes, and within each plane there are
seven sub-planes. So it is an extraordinarily vast reality composed
of 49 sub-planes with many localities within each plane. At a still
lower frequency we have the Psychical-Substance that is used in
the creation of all the 49 sub-planes of the Psychical Worlds. The
Psychical Worlds are the places visited by those who can have
conscious out of body experiences. But again these are the very
same worlds we all visit each night while our body is asleep on our
bed.  But  most  people  lack  the  ability  to  bring  back  these
experiences fully to the material brain in the morning. Remembering
bits and flashes they believe they had a dream that they consider as
totally  unreal.  But  these  incomplete  memories  are  just  jumbled
fragments of experiences in the Psychical Worlds of existence.
And  upon  the  death  of  our  material  body  we  will  all  find

ourselves fully residing in these Psychical Worlds with the same
feelings, thoughts and interests as we had the moment before the
death of our material body. Just like in the Noetical Worlds, colors,
sights, sounds and smells in the Psychical Worlds are much richer
and broader than we have on Earth. In these worlds, our feelings
and desires are much more intense because the Psychical Worlds
are worlds of emotion. And the experiences of time and place in
these  worlds  are  more  fluid,  elastic  and  vivid.  The  psychical
substance composing these worlds is more easily affected by our
motivations and intentions.
Now we find that the higher Worlds of Existence are exactly
like the material world. They have oceans, mountains, rivers, lakes,
trees and all the life forms on earth. There are also more exotic life
forms and many things that are not found on earth. What’s the
most the material, Psychical and Noetical Worlds? Light! There is
more and more abundant light as you ascend higher. And this light
gives  nourishment  and  understanding  in  the  higher  worlds.  But
while  on  Earth,  unless  we  tune  our  consciousness  to  the
frequencies of psychical and Noetical light, we will not be able to
perceive anything of these worlds. That is why most people have
no  idea  they  even  exist.  It  is  like  the  radio  stations  that  all
concurrently exist around us. We are not able to perceive anything
about them unless we tune a receiver to their specific broadcast
frequency.  The  three  Worlds  of  Existence,  the  Noetical,  the
Psychical and the Material co-exist and are intermingled with each
other. They all exist together but at different rates of vibration like
musical octaves and so these worlds do not get jumbled and mixed
up.
Think  for  a  minute  how  much  of  the  Earth  we  actually
inhabit. As you know the earth is 71% covered by water, but we
are not living in the water we live on the dry land. Of the 29% of
earth that is dry land, humans only inhabit about one percent of it.
So proportionally we live on a tiny part of the Earth and yet that
part seems very vast to us. But if you compare the inhabited part
of earth to the Psychical Worlds, you would find it to be just a
small portion of one of the 49 sub planes. And with training a

seeker of the truth can learn to open the portals to self-conscious
movement within all these worlds.

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
It is said that our material body is a temple of God. And at
the same time it is the temple of our Inner Self. The Soul-Self is
living in this temple which is most intelligently cared for by the
Holy Spirit and it Archangelic emissaries. The Holy Spirit is alive
and working in every cell of your material body to maintain its
health. We should love our body and give thanks to the Holy Spirit
who cares for it in our behalf. And so we should cooperate with
the Holy Spirit and the Archangels so to know what is taking place
in the body temple. All the forms of Etheric Vitality are controlled
by the Holy Spirit and the Logos and perform great work for the
building  of  our  material  body.  By  practicing  our  exercises  of
Introspection, Concentration and Meditation we are at the same
time  collaborating  with  the  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and
Archangels. And it gives them joy when they see our personality
mature to the point of conscious coordination with them and their
work in our body temple.
We  also  must  practice  exercises  that  balance  the  material
body, Psychical Body and our Noetical Body for good health. Each
of  our  three  bodies  corresponds  to  one  of  the  three  Worlds  of
Existence and we use these bodies to live in and express ourselves
through while being in these worlds. We want all our emotions and
thoughts to be under the control of our Inner Self and not under the
control or our egoism, which we have mistaken to be our real self.
Our practices bring these under the conscious control of our Inner
Self. In time you will gain full mastery and can use logical thought
to  dissolve  unreasonable  thoughts  and  emotions.  Then  you  will
discover who you really are as the Soul-Self. Balancing our three
bodies enables our approach and entrance into the Psychical and
Noetical Worlds of Existence.
We can vitalize and balance our three bodies by working in the
three main centers of consciousness and self-awareness: The Solar
Plexus, the Heart center and the Head Center. In the Solar Plexus it
is safe for anyone to concentrate and store energy there. The Solar
Plexus is a storehouse of energy, which is spread throughout the

entire body. It is the basis of the metabolism and great work is
performed there by the Holy Spirit. In our practices we should not
concentrate  directly  on  the  material  heart,  it  can  cause  heart
problems, but we can safely concentrate in the entire chest cavity
without  doing  any  harm.  For  the  same  reason,  we  want  to
concentrate in and around the head area.

THE PRACTICE: A PRELIMINARY MEDITATION
Concentrate in your material body and relax every muscle.
Feel you are in your whole material body. Your body is a gift from
God, sustained and lovingly maintained by the Holy Spirit and
Archangels. Simply feel you are in your material body completely
relaxed. Even though you know very little about it, you can be the
master of your material body.
The Holy Archangels are working in all your organs and in every
cell of your body. Thank them for their tireless work. They love you
and  rejoice  when  you  become  conscious  of  their  work  and
cooperate with them.
Concentrate and feel you are in the toes of your feet. Consciously
feel you are fully in your toes. Take a deep, comfortable breath and
move your attention up through the calves of your legs. Breathe
again and continue this movement up through your thighs. See the
snow white light Etheric Vitality radiating in and around your legs.
Feel it in and around your legs.
From  your  legs  move  slowly  up  and  into  your  Solar  Plexus.
Breathe deeply, comfortably and rhythmically as you concentrate in
this center. Breathe in and see a beautiful sky blue nebula of light
radiating from this center. Breathe out and see all darkness and
fear leave your body.
Breathe in and see the sky blue light in and around your Solar
Plexus become brighter and brighter. Breathe out and see this pure
light-energy spread throughout your whole body. Wish calmness to
reign in your material body.
Now continue to move your attention up to the chest area. See a
luminous rosy light emanating from your Heart Center in and
around your chest. Quiet all your emotions and desires and fill this
center with love. Feel love for life, feel love for yourself and feel
love for all human beings. And especially feel love for those whom
you have trouble with and those who have trouble with you. Expand

this selfless love to spread out and cover our temporary home; the
planet Earth. Wish peace to reign in your heart.
Continue to move your attention up to the head. Feel you are in and
around your head. Breathe deeply and see a golden nebula of light
in  and  around  the  head.  Silence  your  ordinary  thoughts.  Only
creative  thoughts  are  in  your  mind  now.  Breathe,  deeply,
comfortably and rhythmically and see how this luminous nebula of
golden  light  becomes  clearer,  brighter  and  stronger  with  each
breath. Wish clarity for your mind.
See how the Etheric Double of your whole material body is glowing
and scintillating in pure white light. And say to yourself: “I want
perfect health in my material body!”

Chapter Eight
THREE VEHICLES OF THE SOUL
 
The material body cannot exist without the Psychical and Noetical
Bodies. So a human being has at his service three bodies, through
which he can express himself in the corresponding material,
Psychical and Noetical Worlds. That means he must have Noetical,
Psychical and material bodies to express himself in the material
world. The material body can be completely aborted as it happens
with the phenomenon of death. The human self-aware personality
then departs and withdraws with his or her Psychical and Noetical
Bodies in to the Psychical World, where he lives in the same
manner as he lived in the material world. Most ordinary people are
not aware of the difference between the material world and the
Psychical Worldwhen they pass over. The enlightened ones in past
centuries not only knew about the existence of these bodies, they
were making good use of them. Saint Paul knew them, used them,
and mentioned them in his writings. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
The  Material  Body,  the  Psychical  Body  and  the  Noetical
Body are the vehicles of the Soul used during its journey through
the corresponding three Worlds of Existence: Material, Psychical
and  the  Noetical.  These  bodies  are  made  up  of  substance
corresponding to the world within which a human being lives and
express his or her self. And we have said that these three bodies
and the three worlds have their etheric counterparts, which connect
them.
These bodies are not separated but coexist with one another
simultaneously. At night when the Psychical and Noetical Bodies
withdraw from the material body it goes into the state of sleep.
The material body is unusable without the Psychical and Noetical
Bodies.  However,  when  the  material  body  is  discarded  in  the
change we call death; the self-aware personality then fully residesin
its Psychical Body. But for the Psychical Body to exist it must
also have the Noetical Body with it. Because the Psychical Body
and  Noetical  Body  are  connected  and  together  we  call  this  the
Psycho-Noetical  Body.  Each  and  every  atom  of  your  material
body has a corresponding ethereal, psychical and a Noetical atom.
The Psychical and Noetical Bodies have the identical form of
the material body but are beyond the concept of measurable space.
These bodies are like clothing we can temporarily take off and put
on.  Or  in  the  case  of  future  incarnations  our  current  material,
Psychical and Noetical Bodies are replaced with entirely new ones.
The bodies are like garments covering the ray of our Spirit-Soul-
Self. The clothing is not so important; it is the Self that dresses in
the clothing that is important. It is necessary to note the difference
between  the  temporary  and  the  permanent...between  the
temporary bodies and the Permanent Inner Self that inhabits the
bodies for a time.
We find our material body, readymade for our use. All we
have to do is feed it, wash it and dress it. Karma permitting, it
develops perfectly and naturally under the wisdom of the Holy
Spirit. But we are shaping and coloring our Psychical and Noetical

Bodies all the time. Our Psychical Body is shaped and colored by
the quality and quantity of our emotions, desires and motivations.
Likewise our Noetical Body is shaped and colored by our thoughts
and intentions. If our emotions and thoughts have negativity, being
composed of jealousy anger, anxiety, unhealthy desires and unclean
thoughts our Psychical Body and Noetical Bodies are discolored
accordingly.
At  the  same  time  there  is  the  perfect  archetype  of  the
Psychical  and  Noetical  Body,  which  is  kept  by  our  Guarding
Archangel and used by the self-aware personality. So our work in
our  spiritual  unfoldment  is  to  learn  to  shape  our  Psychical  and
Noetical  Body  consciously  so  it  matches  that  of  the  perfect
archetype. Of course Christ and certain enlightened masters in the
past have come to show us what that actually looks like.
But in spiritually un-awakened people, their Psycho-Noetical
Body  looks  undeveloped.  It  appears  as  an  unshaped  oval  mass
taking  on  the  colors  according  to  the  person’s  feelings  and
thoughts. So as we work to purify our emotions and clean our
thoughts  we  automatically  shape  our  Psychical  and  Noetical
Bodycloser  to  its  perfect  archetype.  We  are  born  in  this  world
without any real perception of who we are as a personality until
around the age of seven. Up to this point in time, all we know is
our  name,  gender  and  immediate  environment. And  yet,  Karma
permitting,  our  material  body  tends  develops  properly  without
much effort on our part. Our material body grows from the center
of  each  atom. And  it  is  the  Etheric  Vitality  that  maintains  the
body’s health and makes it grow. Our bodies are a very precious
gift from God and we must love and respect them.
And yet the common person has no idea about the other two
higher bodies. But the researcher of truth knows the higher bodies
in two ways. The first way is by theoretical knowledge. You read
or hear about them and you understand they exist. The second way
is to come to know them is practically, which means you start to
use  them  consciously.  So  far  you  have  only  used  them  sub-
consciously.
When a person is under raging anger, that person has no idea

they are using their Psychical Body subconsciously wasting vast
quantities of its Etheric Vitality. Often when people get angry their
face turns red and they get hot. Why? They are making a bonfire of
their  Etheric  Vitalitybut  when  their  anger  subsides  they  feel
exhausted and drained. This is evidence of the tremendous loss of
energy resulting from uncontrolled anger.
And  the  result  of  all  this  is  a  disturbance  in  the  Divine
harmony and laws that wisely governs the health of our bodies.
And the result of violation of the laws is diseases and illness. When
a harmful violation reaches a tipping point, the personality suffers
pain. And this physical, emotional or mental pain endures until
there  is  a  balancing  or  restoration  of  the  Divine  Law  has  been
achieved.  Who  is  really  responsible  for  this  pain  and  suffering?
Some people blame God.
An angry woman who had bad ulcers and needed an operation
came to Daskalos.
She  told  him:  “I  believed  in  God  once,  but  now  I  do  not
believe God exists. Because why should I have to suffer this pain
in my stomach and go for surgery to have this ulcer removed? Tell
me why God has given me such a bad turn?”
Daskalos  replied:  “This  is  what  made  you  reach  the
conclusion that God does not exist? Did God by any chance teach
you to live in an angry way to upset your stomach and create this
problem? We all know that anxiety, worries and anger create such
conditions.”
Unfortunately the lady had taken no responsibility for her
own faults and shifted the responsibility of her aliment to God
instead.
Now  the  question  arises.  How  can  we  help  a  person  who
takes absolutely no responsibility for his or her own actions? First
theperson’s  thinking  must  be  cured  in  order  to  stop  laying  the
blame on others, to become aware of the real cause, and to willingly
restore balance. If that can be done, then a lasting cure is possible.
The doctors were confident surgery was necessary because
this lady had a deep ulcer. But Daskalos showed her another way.
And she changed her attitude, dropped the anger and was cured of

the ulcers without surgery. Today she is a different person. No
longer does she get angry, waking up in the morning ready to lash
out at others, claiming, “they were ruining her nerves.” She does
not go around looking for a reason to get upset or feel that others
are  against  her  –  she  really  changed.  Now  the  real  gain  of  this
healing was more than just curing the dangerous ulcer. The real gain
was  that  she  was  able  to  cure  herself  from  an  unhealthy
personality  that  created  the  ulcer.  So  for  lasting  cures  we  must
treat the cause and not just treat the symptom, which in this case
was the ulcer.
We all know we are living in a material body. We also have a
Psychical  Body  which  some  call  the  astral  body. Astral  comes
from the Latin and means star. And we have a Noetical Body; Saint
Paul called this body the Spiritual Body. In our system we call it
the Noetical Body so as not to confuse itwith the word Spirit,
which is the nature of God and also our own Divine Nature.
Now these three bodies are independent of each other. An
advanced  mystic  can  self-consciously  at  will,  leave  his  material
body  and  live  more  fully  in  a  Psychical  Body  in  the  Psychical
Worlds. But this Psychical Body must still have the Noetical Body
connected and interwoven with it in order to live. And likewise a
very  advanced  mystic  can  self-consciously  leave  the  Psychical
Body and even more fully live in just his or her Noetical Body.
Furthermore a mystic or researcher of truth residing only in
the  Noetical  Worlds  who  expresses as  a  Soul  and  not  just  a
personality can re-appear in the Psychical Worlds. Such a one who
has aborted his material and Psychical Body and now fully dwells
in the Noetical Worlds can materialize a material body to use in the
material worlds. Through the force of their own will they can be
seen, shake hands, converse and provide real physical help.
As human beings we have at our disposal three bodies, which
we can use to express ourselves in the corresponding three Worlds
of Existence. But do not think that any of these three bodies are
your Self. We must understand the difference and learn to separate
t he Self  from  the  three  bodies  the  Self  uses.  An  advanced
researcher of truth is a master of these three bodies and can express

his Self completely in any of the three Worlds of Existence with a
corresponding body. These are known as the Invisible Helpers –
the brothers of mercy. They can materialize anywhere on Earth
and give physical assistance. Distance is not a limitation for the
invisible  helpers.  They  communicate  between  themselves  no
matter how many miles apart they are. These are not the average
Researches of Truth but the most advanced ones. These are the
ones who have succeeded in assimilating their personality-self with
the Soul-Self. They have overcome their personality and placed it
under the guidance and control of their Inner Self. They know who
they are as a personality self and what they are as a Soul Self.
And this is Daskalos’ ardent wish for all of us. It may be
difficult  to  do  but  this  is  not  impossible.  Others  have  done  it
before us and one day we will do it too. What we need is the full
intention and the un-conflicted desire to be of service to our fellow
human beings. From the instant we express the wish to love and
help others; the great intelligences around us rejoice and give us
help. So we are never alone in our effort.
We  are  speaking  about  our  three  bodies,  but  what  is  the
relationship between the material, Psychical and Noetical Bodies?
Again if the Psycho-Noetical Body is withdrawn from the material
body for an extended period of time the material body dies. This is
because the withdrawal of the Psycho-Noetical Body causes the
etheric counter part of the material body to withdraw completely.
When  this  happens  it  deprives  the  life  force  from  the  physical
matter composing the body and the body starts to decompose. The
etheric counterparts of the bodies are both the space between the
bodies as well as the link connecting these bodies.
We  can  teach  about  the  three  bodies,  and  can  show
confirmations from other enlightened masters who have foundthese
other bodies. The instructions are given, have always been given
and will continue to be given by those who know. But this is not
enough. This information can point you in the right direction, but
everyone has to make his or her own effort to investigate and have
their own direct experience. Everyone, according the instructions of
Christ,  should  know  the  truth  for  himself  or  herself.  We  can

intellectually  accept  the  truth  from  a  knowing,  trustworthy
authority but to really “know” the truth and be freed we must have
the direct experience of the truth ourselves.
And all these enlightened teachers from all times basically said
the  same  thing.  It  did  not  matter  which  time  period  they  were
living, or where on the planet they were living, they all found the
same truth again and again. So a man or a woman in any nation has
the truth available but what is needed is to research and investigate
that truth.
Someone might say, I am not interested in that or what does it
matter;  I  do  not  have  time  to  investigate  these  things.  But  the
response to that attitude is that people need to study these things
because  too  many  people  are  living  an  unsatisfying  life  and
suffering to some degree. And nobody can take you out of your
suffering unless you are open to knowing the truth.
That  person  may  ask,  “Am  I really  in  a  hell?”  Definitely
they  are  if  they  are  under  the  illusion  of  separateness,  having
jealousy,  animosity  and  feeling  others  are  their  enemies  and
struggling against them. To come out of such troubles and suffering
we have to find the truth. To be free we have wake up to the
illusions,  which  egoism  presents  as  the  truth. As  you  look  at
people around, you will notice that those who deny the truth are
the unhappiest people on the earth.
Now without understanding it, every night each of you, leaves
your material body as it is sleeping on the bed. Each night the self-
aware  personality  along  with  the  psycho-Noetical  Body  must
withdraw from the materialbody. The creative ether of the material
body always stays with the material body when the other bodies
withdraw during sleep. During this time the Holy Spirit uses the
creative ether to make repairs and restore health to the material
body.  Most  people  do  not  consciously  work  to  develop  their
Psychical or Noetical Body. So everyone has these bodies but they
are basically inactive. To activate them and develop the Psychical
Body we must use the Noetical Body. This means that to control
emotions and desires we must use our mind to think in a reasonable
way.  In  doing  so,  we  set  into  motion  the  functioning  of  our

Psychical and Noetical Bodies.
Developing our Psychical and Noetical Bodies is similar to the
materialbody. If we do not move our material body it will become
atrophied, weak and unusable. A material body simply will not
function properly without activity and use. The same is true with
the higher Psychical and Noetical Bodies.
Human life requires us to use our three bodies to at least some
degree. So an aim of a researcher of truth is to learn to distinguish
these bodies and use them consciously. Eventually for researcher
of  truth  there  is  no  sleeping.  Which  means,  after  putting  his
material body to sleep every night, the researcher withdraws from
it and continues living in the Psychical Worlds just as he did in the
material  world.  A  very  advanced  researcher,  as  self-awareness,
does not sleep or dream but enjoys a continuation of consciousness
in these higher worlds.
Now the way to reach these high states starts with analyzing
your personality self. This is done to reach the honest truth about
who  you  are  as  a  temporary  existence  and  what  you  are  as  an
eternal being. This is not easy to do because as a personality you
cannot immediately understand this space-less reality. The limited
time and space-place personality cannot fully understand its own
limitless source while still encapsulated in the three bodies. But
that does not mean we are not able to know something of the truth
of it while stillliving in these three bodies. Of course, all this needs
time and practice on the part of the personality to align and attune
in order to comprehend its source. It takes effort to be able to
discern your Divine Nature from its human expressions. It takes
time and effort because we have this temporary human personality
with a material body, an emotional body and a mental body, which
we have become misidentified with.
This temporary little self with its three bodies is a product of
time, space and place. Some people have confused their self with
their material body. Not knowing about the Psychical Body many
think  they  are  their  emotions.  Not  knowing  about  the  Noetical
Body, the mental body, many think they are their thoughts.
Every  one  of  you  is  at  present  in  a  mundane  self-

consciousness and living in your three bodies. This is common to
all of us. The real question is how developed are your three bodies
and who are you living in these bodies? Everyone is constantly
creating a personality-self that they misidentify as their real Self.
The personality is not God, but it has God in it. This you will
discover by self-analysis of all three bodies. This means knowing
all three bodies, their nature and their expressions. And to know
how to use them properly, which reveals the self who is learning
how to use the bodies.
Now  suppose  a  man’s  material  body  is  destroyed  in  an
explosion.  Immediately  you  will  see  that  man  in  his  Psychical
Body  on  the  Psychical  planes.  After  living  some  time  on  the
Psychical  planes  he  will  pass  over  to  the  Noetical  planes  and
continue existing in his brilliant, luminous Noetical Body. So there
is no death, but a continuation of life on higher and higher levels.
Christ was pointing to this when he said: “Do not be afraid of
those who can kill your body, they can do nothing to the Soul.”
We have stated many times, our bodies are ours but we are
not  our  bodies.  They  are  created  and  maintained  for  us  by  the
Archangels. And  we  find  ourselves  living  in  these  bodies  as  a
personality. The bodies are Holy Spiritual in nature. However even
as a personalitywe are Logoic.
The  teachings  and  practices  of  the  Researchers  of  Truth
enable  you  to  shift  your  center  of  awareness  from  receiving
impressions  in  the  material  world,  to  receiving  impression  in
Psychical  and  Noetical  Worlds.  Pay  attention  to  this  clue:  you
shiftthe center of your awareness from the material world to the
Psychical and then to the Noetical Worlds. And in doing so you
will  be  able  to  distinguish  the  difference  between  the  various
worlds. And more importantly you will be able to distinguish the
difference between your life as a personality from your real Self,
which is Life itself. This is the Self-Realization we seek.
Once you recognize it, you can live this reality by living in
coordination  with  it.  You  can  assimilate  with  this  great  truth,
which is within you. And this sets us free from our personality
with  its  limited  strengths  and  weaknesses.  This  lesson  is  a

fundamental  part  of  our  teaching  and  must  be  studied  well.
Because, we must be able to differentiate the two states we have
spoken of. One is that of the bodies, which are Holy Spiritual in
nature. The other is the self-awareness that is expressing through
the bodies. This means knowing the difference between the Soul-
Self and the clothing (the three bodies) the Soul-Self is dressed in.
And this starts with our practice of Introspection. We must
know what we are doing and where we are in any of the three
Worlds of Existence. And at the same time we feel we are the I-
ness  that  is  higher  than  the  three  bodies  and  the  worlds  they
inhabit. We must raise our consciousness to higher levels to view
all the different Worlds of Existence from above. To see it all from
this  perspective  as  a  point  of  self-awareness,  that  can  move
anywhere in these worlds it wants to.
When you reach this state, you will be able to enter into the
Super-Conscious  Self-Awareness.  Then  in  Super-Conscious  Self
Awareness you are free to move into the higher spheres beyond
the three Worlds of Existence. When you do this, you realize that
no happiness found on Earth can compare to the happiness found
in the higher realms. The desire for happiness you seek on Earth is
constantly moving from one object or experience to another, just
like a flame in a wood fire moves from one log to another as it
burns. If you endlessly chase desires like this, then happiness for
you  will  only  be  a  fleeting  moment  before  you  want  more
happiness.

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
Each  and  every  person  is  at  this  moment,  living
simultaneously in three bodies without knowing it – the material,
psychical and Noetical. But how active are they? Everyone is using
their material body. And they are using their Psychical Body, the
body of their emotions, but they use it mostly sub-consciously in
expressing desires and emotions. These three bodies are constantly
undergoing changes. Our three bodies are connected as a whole and
we  live  in  them  and  express  ourselves  through  them  in  the
analogous  material,  Psychical  and  Noetical  Worlds.  One  of  the
practices of a Researcher of Truth is to learn to distinguish, know
and properly use these bodies consciously. With our practices we
balance and harmonize our three bodies, we energize, restore health
and establish complete harmony in our personality self.

THE PRACTICE: THREE SUNS MEDITATION
Breathe deeply and feel your material body.
Concentrate and feel the whole abdominal area.
You are in the aesthetic ether of the Etheric Double of your material
body.
Now  you  will  use  the  imprinting  ether.  See  pure  light-energy
radiating from within your solar plexus, creating a sky-blue sun.
The radiation is movement, made possible by the kinetic ether.
Feel and see the sky-blue nebula within your abdominal area and a
Noetical  radiation  expanding  out  of  your  material  body  in  all
directions.
You are now the sky-blue sun, which has in its middle point a sky-
blue nebula in more intense light.
The sky-blue nebula covers the whole abdominal area. It starts
from the sternum and continues down to the pelvis. It extends
outside the body in the front and in the back.
If you concentrate intensely, you will feel it.
Feel that you live consciously in the abdominal area.
Wish that absolute health reign in your material body.

 
Continue to breathe deeply and comfortably. Now a rosy sun starts
to radiate from your Heart Center. Slowly, slowly a white-rosy
nebula is created in your chest. It is extended outside of the body in
front of your chest and in the back.
We have two radiations now, one of sky-blue light and one of rosy
light. The centers are a little different, but the radiation looks like a
sun with two nebulas, a sky-blue nebula and a white-rosy nebula.
In the psycho-Noetical Worlds, the color lights are not mixing; they
do not assimilate and create a new color light as it happens in the
material world.
Breathe deeply and wish that absolute emotional health reign in
your personality-self-aware-self.
Wish that this sun clean your lower emotions and unreasonable
desires.

 
Now feel that you are in your head center. Golden light starts to
radiate, creating a bright sun. A nebula of canary-yellow light
surrounds your head.
Remain still, calm and in peace for a while.

 
Now feel that you are in your whole material body. See an egg
shaped oval of white light that encloses your whole body and the
nebulas of the three suns in the three centers.
The radiations of the three suns pass through the nebula of the egg-
shaped oval of white light.
Consciously feel yourself in your personality-self-aware-self and
wish to be cleaned and purified.
Ask for this and it will be given to you.
Take your time until you feel that you are again fully in your
material body.

Chapter Nine
THE SEVEN HEAVENS
 
It’s not only one Heaven – there are seven Heavens. The
enlightened ones in the past found out, described them, and gave us
instructions how we ourselves will find these seven Heavens. Only
seven heavens? Of course, there are many more, but, the human
intelligence, no matter what level it reaches, cannot go beyond the
seven Heavens. Of course, it is ridiculous just to speak about the
seven Heavens without proving their existence and showing how to
approach them. But, these things need study, analysis, and time to
find it out. Studying and believing blindly means nothing! Studying
it, knowing it, and living it means much.
~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
As  a  personality  we  live  in  multilayered  realities
simultaneously. Adepts today and in past times have experienced
these higher planes of existence and even gone beyond them. The
Christian  church  has  identified  these  as  the  seven  heavens.  The
Buddhist teachings in the Tibetan Book of the Dead tell of these
states of existence between death and birth, calling them Bardos.
Sages in India also teach of seven Lokas (Worlds). The Researches
of Truth through their direct experience know the reality of these
seven heavens and teach the way to experience them.
What are the seven heavens? From the viewpoint of existence
these heavens are:
1. The Material Plane which includes our planet, our solar
system, all the other solar systems, our galaxy and all the other
billions of galaxies in the universe of three dimensional space.
2.  The  Etheric  Double  of  the  material  plane,  which  is  an
ethereal counterpart of matter and composed of ethereal substance.
3. The Psychical Planes with their seven divisions, each with
its seven sub-divisions. These divisions are distinguishable ranges
of vibration and not divisions in the sense of measurable space.
4. The Etheric Double of the Psychical Worlds, is the ethereal
counterpart  to  the  Psychical  planes  and  is  composed  of  finer
ethereal substance.
5. The Noetical Planes with their seven divisions, each with
its seven sub-divisions These divisions are distinguishable ranges
of vibration and not divisions in the sense of measurable space.
6. The Etheric Double of the Noetical Worldsis the ethereal
counterparts to the Noetical Planes and composed of even finer
ethereal Substance.
These  first  six  are  the  mundane  heavens  as  they  are  the
temporal Worlds of Existence, which means they are changing all
the  time.  These  luminous  heavens  have  been  created  using  the
eternal, immutable Divine Laws found in the higher Noetic State.
These  unerring  Divine  Laws  are  permanent  but  the  mundane
heavens are not.

7. The Seventh Heaven is different than the other heavens. It
is composed of formless Super-Substance. It is Divine – eternal –
permanent. The Noetic State of the seventh heaven is the home of
the unchangeable Divine Laws, Causes, and Principles. This heaven
is beyond dualistic concepts. This heaven transcends the polarity
of good and evil completely.
How  could  even  a  Self-Realized  master  ever  describe  the
reality of a heaven of formless Life to those who only understand
life  as  it  temporarily  exists  in  living  forms? And  how  could  a
personality  confined  in  the  worlds  of  duality  ever  meaningfully
comprehend  a  formless  world  without  opposites?  It  is  just  not
possible.
So the material plane is the first of the seven heavens. But
what  is  the  material  plane.  The  material  plane  or  world
encompasses everything existing in the Third Dimension. The first
heaven  is  Mind  matter,  Mind  made  solid.  Then  from  our
standpoint, the second heaven is the ethereal counterpart of the
entire material plane. This literally means that every material thing
has an exact etheric counterpart. For example earth has its exact
etheric counterpart consisting of mountains, oceans, trees, rivers,
lakes,  and  everything  existing  on  earth.  And  the  ethereal
counterpart of our planet is in, on and extends for thousands of
miles around the planet. It is the same for any other planet, moon
or heavenly body.
The third heaven is what is known as the Psychical planes of
existence.  The  first  heaven  is  Mind-Matter  the  third  heaven  is
Mind-Emotion. And this heaven is in the Earth, on the Earth and
extends for thousands of miles around the Earth but exists at a
higher rate of vibration. Each planet, moon and all heavenly bodies
have their own third heaven. And the third heaven of each planet or
sun does not touch the third heaven of the other heavenly bodies.
This  is  the  same  as  saying  the  psychical  counter  part  of  any
heavenly body does not touch the psychical counterpart of other
heavenly bodies.
And like the Earth the third heaven also has its own etheric
counterpart. This etheric counterpart of the Psychical Worlds is

the fourth heaven. Everything existing in the third heaven of the
Psychical Planes has its etheric counterpart. Now we come to the
fifth heaven known as the Noetical Planes. Everything material has
its  psychical  counterpart  and  likewise  everything  material  and
psychical also has its Noetical counterpart. This fifth heaven is in
the planet, on the planet and around the planet. Our entire solar
system floats within the Noetical substance of the fifth heaven. So
unlike  the  material  and  Psychical  Worlds  with  their  Etheric
Doubles, all the heavenly bodies are connected and reside within
the  Noetical  fifth  heaven,  which  is  everywhere  in  the  sense  of
space and place. Of course the Noetical Worlds and everything in
them have their etheric counterpart too, which is of the six heaven.
This heaven is also everywhere in the sense of space and place.
That just leaves the seventh heaven. What can anyone say
about  this  high,  high  state?  The  seventh  heaven  is  the  spiritual
world, the abode of our Spirit our real nature. The masters that
have been able to touch this heaven while still on Earth can hardly
speak about it. They can say it is beautiful beyond description.
But you will not find teachings about this heaven in books.
In the Old Testament, God said: “Let Us make man in Our
image, according to Our likeness.” To “our image” means to the
image of all the heavens... to the heavenly worlds. And “according
to our likeness” means that mankind in its Divine Nature is similar
to God as the Archangels are. So mankind is in the image of the
heavens, but where are these heavens? Christ was clear about that
saying: “The kingdom of the heavens is within you.” The heavens
are within the Divine Nature of the Spirit Soul Self.
Now  we  will  put  this  altogether.  As  a  human  being  our
material body is of the first heaven. Our material body is a vehicle
of expression we use while living in the material world. And that
material body has an Etheric Double, which corresponds to the
second  heaven.  We  also  have  the  Psychical  Body,  which
corresponds to the third heaven. Our Psychical Body is a vehicle
of expression we use while living in the Psychical Worlds. And this
body also has its Etheric Double, which is of the fourth heaven.
We  then  have  a  Noetical  Body,  which  corresponds  to  the  fifth

heaven. Our Noetical Body is a vehicle of expression we use while
living in the Noetical Worlds. And likewise this body has its own
Etheric Double, which correspondsto the sixth heaven. And finally
we have the seventh heaven, which corresponds to the Spirit Body
if you can even call it a body at this level. It is the Archetypal
Human Form, but it is not really a body.
And sowe have bodies corresponding to the heavens we use
when travelling in these heavens. These bodies, like the heavens,
are  intertwined  and  co-exist  one  with  the  other.  But  to  visit  a
higher heaven, we must come out of the lower body. For example
to consciously visit the third heaven, the Psychicalplanes, we must
consciously come out of our material body, passing through its
Etheric Double and compose our self-awareness in our Psychical
Body  on  the  Psychical  planes.  This  process  is  called  the  first
Exosomatosis, which means conscious out of body experience. To
visit the fifth heaven of the Noetical planes, we then must make
the  second  Exosomatosis  and  leave  the  Psychical  Body  passing
through its Etheric Double and compose our self-awareness in our
Noetical Body on the Noetical planes of the fifth heaven. To reach
this seventh heavenrequires a third Exosomatosis, coming out of
the Noetical Body passing through its Etheric Double and entering
our Noetic form, which is not really a body but a state of Being.
In the higher radiant Noetic World, we find a world of causes
and ideas that are defining the forms we first see appear in the
Noetical Worlds. And the very advanced mystics, who can reach
the Noetic, can see anything and everything concerning any form of
life from the vantage point of the Etheric Centers. This means such
a mystic could see the entire Circle of Possibilities, from beginning
to end all at the same time for any form of life.
Again we have come to a limit. It is not possible using words
to convey an adequate meaning of the magnificence of this reality.
The  only  way  to  understand  this  is  through  the  Self-Super-
Consciousness; by the At-One-Ment of our personality with the
Spirit-Soul-Self. What is lost and what is gained by reaching the
Self-Super  Consciousness?  Do  we  lose  our  identity  as  a
personality and forget our time and place self-awareness? No not

at  all.  Entering  the  state  of  Self-Super-Consciousness  we  will
remember everything about out personality including its name. We
will even remember our names as well as all the experiences we had
in past lives. This means that a single human lifetime begins as a
Ray  of  the  Permanent  or  Soul  Personality  descends  from  the
seventh heaven of the Noetic State. This Ray of Spirit Life Light
descendsall  the  way  into  the  first  heaven  of  the  Material
Worldwhere we begin our new lifetime, dressed in a new material
body.
Then when the material body dies, we as self-awareness pass
through the second heaven to continue our life in the third heaven.
After a time living in the Psychical planes of the third heaven we
undergo a pleasant second death as it is calledand we pass through
the  fourth  heaven  and  enter  the  fifth  heaven  of  the  Noetical
Worlds. Here we again continue living our same life, with our same
appearance, interest and name but in the higher conditions of the
fifth heaven.
After a time living in the fifth heaven there is a pleasant third
death, and as self-awareness, we pass through the sixth heaven to
the seventh heaven and in to our real nature in the Noetic State and
rest for a time. Here the Soul, with the help of the Archangelic
Lords of Karma, design and plan our next incarnation. Then the
process  begins  again  as  the  ray  of  the  personality  is  again
projected, dressed and incarnated as a new personality in a new
material body on earth. What we call reality is much, much, larger
than anyone has told us. And our existence as a personality lasts
much longer lasting than we can imagine now.

PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
By cleaning and purifying our personality along with certain
meditation practices we can reach beyond the material world and
experience  the  various  heavens  described.  We  can  and  should
become good citizens in these higher heavens. But we should not
neglect  planet  earth,  our  temporary  home  in  the  first  heaven.
Development to raise our consciousness to these higher heavens
must proceed in a proportional balanced way to be safe as well as
effective. There is so much suffering in our material world and we
should not ignore that and only seek our own personal experiences
in higher worlds.
In  the  Worlds  of  Separateness  we  live  under  the  powerful
forces of duality. In this condition, it is very easy for us to fall into
a “Them & Us” mindset and polarize groups or individuals into
pairs of opposites. You can see the “Them verses Us” attitude
between  peers,  professions,  family  members,  religions,  and
between  races.  But  nowhere  is  this  shortsighted  view  more
dangerous than at the national level. When one nation diametrically
polarizes  against  another  nation,  very  strong  and  dangerous
conditions are created.
We have spoken about the creation of destructive Elementals
(the so-called negative thought forms), which exist at the personal
and family level. Yet even more dangerous Elementals are created
by  entire  nations.  These  massive  group  Elementalsbecome  very
strong as they are empowered by that nation’s population. At this
moment in time, immense war loving group Elementals are being
energized with great strength and consistency. The Elementals of
war grow more powerful as they build energy that seeks release.
This situation is polarizing the world. People are rapidly dividing
into opposing ideological groups. And within each of these groups
further divisions fractionalize hearts and minds with fear, doubt
and confusion.
Energizing either side of the polarity of this situation only
fuels the problem. The beating of war drums by one side stimulates
the other side to rattle their sabers in defiance. Even protests in the

streets, which burn flags and effigies in the name of peace release
energies that stimulate and feed the very forces of conflict they are
protesting against. Illusion creates opposition and division, while
truth engenders integration and harmony.
There is a call to all our brothers and sisters around the world
to rise above the lure of conflict and create powerful prayers of
peace. True peace is not the opposite of war. True peace has no
polarized counterpoint. It is a peace that the world itself cannot
give. But this peace can be invoked in God and in our own true
nature. By visualizing while praying for peace we are consciously
creating angelic thought-forms full of love and understanding for all
humanity. These prayers empower the vibrations of harmony and
infuse  reason  into  insane  situations.  Transcending  the  “Them
verses Us” mentality also will also restore our personal peace and
lead us into the greater realization that in truth, there is no “Them”
everyone is “Us.”

THE PRACTICE: CREATING PEACE IN THE FIRST
HEAVEN
Begin by inhaling comfortable deep breaths. Slowly inhale white
light, exhaling any darkness. Your material body is now glowing in
bright white light, while it’s Etheric Double and aura is turning
misty sky-blue.
Your consciousness is becoming lighter and no longer hindered by
heavy thoughts and emotions. Begin to expand your consciousness
in every direction from where you are sitting. It passes out of the
building, above the trees, like a growing bubble, until you can see
the town in which you live.
A  lovely  rose  light  pours  out  from  your  psycho-Noetical  heart
blanketing first your neighbor’s home then the whole neighborhood
and finally the entire town. You feel joy.
Continue to expand to the point where you can see your entire
country. Perhaps there is trouble in some part of it. Your heart
continues  to  pour  out  love  for  all.  The  whole  country  is  now
covered in this misty rose colored light.
Next spread your awareness to encompass first the cloud cover and
then the atmosphere. You can see the whole planet. It is a gorgeous
paradise  of  deep  blue  oceans,  vast  mountain  ranges  and  lush
plains. But you know there is fighting in various parts of the world,
great unhappiness, and you want to help.
From where you are, there are no boarders marked, no lines
separating people. It is one world. All trouble is born of ignorance
and misunderstanding. We want to love one another and live in
peace.
Now your heart is a river of rose light which floods the areas of
trouble on the globe with peace and  love.  You  see  millions  of
smiling faces bathed in the rosy light. You see men laying down
their arms and embracing one another in common brotherhood.

You see people giving food and clothes to the others in need.
Now you see the planet move towards you and nestle in your heart.
Moments ago you were on the planet and now the planet is in you.
Keep the planet in your heart.
Now return back to your present-day personality and your material
body. Breathe deeply until you feel you have fully returned. Wish
peace and harmony to prevail in your area, your country and the
world over.

Chapter Ten
HUMAN ANGELS ~ HUMAN DEVILS THE
ELEMENTALS
 
Though the Elementals are not visible in the material world now (in
the other worlds they will be materialized) they are full of energy
and we are always under their burden. The whole life of a man or a
woman on the material plane, being happy or miserable, depends
upon the weight and the nature of these Elementals, which although
invisible, are most powerful.
 
So, we must learn the nature of these Elementals. First, as I said, by
understanding our responsibility in dealing with them, how we
construct and build them up, how are they affecting us, and also
what these Elementals are doing to others around us. Of course,
studying this subject on Elementals we also study how one can dis-
energize them, make corrections, and how can one construct
Elementals shields (protecting Angels), to stop the influence of the
negative devilish Elementals, on us and on the others. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
We dress our material body in clothing. When we dress our
body,  we  do  not  change  the  nature  of  the  material  body  itself.
Whether our body is dressed in the finest linens and silks of high
society or the dirty rags of a homeless person, our body is not
affected by its clothing. It is still the same body, two arms, two
legs, two lungs, and so on. We also dress our Psychical Body in the
emotions, sentiments, and desires we express. Likewise, we dress
our Noetical Body in our thoughts, concepts, and intentions. Most
people dress themselves with their emotions and thoughts far less
consciously than they dress their material body. These psychical
and  Noetical  garments  however,  do  not  corrupt  the  ray  of  our
Spirit-Soul at the core of these bodies. It remains pure Spirit-Life-
Light. This brilliant golden ray is like the backbone of every human
personality. This is a common point with all men and women. Yet,
no two personalities are the same. Why is there a difference? What
makes the personalities of even identical twins different?
Again, the ray of the Spirit-Soul is dressed in bodies during an
incarnation  –  the  material  body,  the  Psychical  Body,  and  the
Noetical Body. How we dress our Psychical and Noetical Bodies
by our thoughts and emotions distinguishes our personality from
other personalities. It is the quality and quantity of our emotion
and thought based Elementals that create the uniqueness of each
personality, covering that pure ray of Spirit-Soul.
In a certain stratum of society, there is the notion that you are
what you wear. Others say you are what you eat. Some even think
they are only their material body. Equally mistaken is the belief
that the Self is what we feel and what we think. Our thoughts and
emotions are just passing expressions that constantly change over
the course of our life so they are not the real Self.
The quality, quantity and intensity of our emotions affect the
transmission of the Spirit-Soul’s life-light through our personality.
The more loving and kind emotions we express the more that life-
light shines through the personality. Consequently the happier and
more connected to the Spirit-Soul Self we feel. The more fearful,

angry or negative emotions we harbor and express, the less that
life-light is able to penetrate our personality and touch the people
around us. The same is true with our thoughts and our Noetical
Body.  Either  consciously  or  sub-consciously,  we  choose  which
emotions, desires and thoughts we allow expression. Thus, we are
very much responsible for them.
And it does not matter how translucent or obscured that light
may be within the personality; at its source it is perfect Life-Light.
It  is  this  Life-Light  that  Mother  Theresa  referred  to  when  she
visited  the  drug  addicts,  the  alcoholics  and  the  homeless  in  the
Bowery of New York City. Looking upon the derelict personalities
she  said:  “All  I  see  in  each  of  you  is  Christ  in  a  distressing
disguise.” She was able to see past their disturbing outer conditions
and see the ray of the perfect Spirit-Soul.
We are able to cover over this light or unfold it within our
personality.  If  we  clean  the  personality  of  negative  feelings,
thoughts, behaviors and unhealthy attitudes; we canreplace them
with real love, noble intentions and selfless service. Then we create
a translucent saintly personality. Alternatively, the personality can
be so contaminated by hatred, impure desires, negative thoughts,
and deviant behaviors that an obscure devilish kind of egoism is
developed. More commonly, a personality in between these two
extremes is created. By these individual expressions, our character
is formed and our destiny is sown.
But, what exactly is an emotion and what is thought? What
are they made of and where do they come from? Why do some
emotions and thoughts have such a powerful influence on us but
other emotions and thoughts do not have much influence? Why is
it  so  difficult  to  free  ourselves  from  the  influences  of  the
undesirable  harmful  feelings?  These  are  the  questions  of  a
Researcher of Truth. These questions bring us to one of the most
important branches of study within the System for the Research of
Truth  –  the  Elementals.  Every  thought  every  feeling,  every
intention  creates  and  transmits  an  Elemental.  Elementals  are  far
more than static units of thought and emotion. They are living,
they have a life of their own and their expression has strength and

purpose. Other spiritual teachings call Elementals, thought-forms.
The   Muslim   Sufi   mystics’   teach   about   thesethought-
formscallingthese  entities  Muwakkals,  which  translates  as  the
word Elementals. The Sufi mystics also teach how a person gives
birth  to  them;  so  they  have  their  own  life  and  have  a  certain
purpose to accomplish. And when a person gives expression to
anger, jealousy and hatred, it is like they are creating an army of
enemies all around themselves. In the ancient Sanskrit language of
India, they were known as “Vasanas.” The Buddhists call some
types of Elementals “habit energies” and “mental formations” from
our  store  consciousness  (our  sub-consciousness).  Certain
biologists,  psychologists  and  cognitive  scientists  have  also  hit
upon the existence of these invisible but powerful forces within the
personality of man and the society. They are calling some types of
Elementals “Memes” and “Mind Viruses.” These scientists focus
on  group  Elementals  that  are  shaping  the  psychology  of  our
culture.  They  call  their  decade’s  long  study  of  these  units  of
cultural transmission Memetics.
Elementals  range  in  quality  from  angelic  to  devilish.  Christ
was  calling  certain  Elementals:  “spirits  mute  and  meaningless”,
“unclean spirits”, and still others “evil spirits”. “Spirits mute and
meaningless” are the pointless distracting feelings and thoughts that
clamor  for  our  attention  and  clutter  the  shallows  of  our  mind.
“Unclean  Spirits”  are  the  negative  emotions  and  thoughts  that
degrade the personality. “Evil Spirits” are the devilish Elementals
that are very destructive to both the host personality and those
around it. Make no mistake about it; these are real devils in every
sense  of  the  word.  But  the  most  awful  ones  people  create  are
human in nature demonsand not the true demons. The true demons
are  the  Elementals  created  by  the  so-called  fallen  ones.  If  the
negative  Elementals  created  by  humans  are  continually  allowed
expression within the personality, they grow in power and number
and form large Group Elementals that can come to dominate the
personality  they  host  on.  They  can  even  gain  a  temporary
possession  over  the  personality.  They  can  influence  that
personality into horrible behaviors, crimes, and in some cases drive

them insane. Christ taught his disciple-healers how to remove the
harmful ones from the afflicted personalities they were torturing.
Daskalos and the teachings of the Researchers of Truth also teach
us how to free our personality of the negative Elementals as well as
how to create Angelic Shield Elementals for our loved ones and our
self.
To begin to understand just exactly what an Elemental is we
must  classify  them  according  to  their  nature  and  purity.  In  the
broadest sense there are two prime classifications. By far the most
common type is the emotion-thought Elemental or desire-thought
forms.  Human  beings  project  thousands  of  this  type  daily.  We
even project these types of Elementals when we sleep. This type
is composed primarily of emotions – desires and feelings and very
little thought. The vast majority of the Elementals created or re-
energized by humans fall into this category. The emotion-thought
type Elementals can range from most despicable to very noble but
most  are  not  so  noble.  Individually  these  emotion-thought
Elementals  are  not  as  powerful  as  the  other  type  unless  they
collect and form large group Elementals.
The  other  classification  is  the  thought-emotion  type  of
Elemental. This type is created by more thought than emotion. In
this  type  thought  is  the  dominant  force  and  emotion  becomes
subordinate.  These  thought-desire  Elementals  manifest  results
quicker  and  more  effectively  than  do  the  emotional  based  ones.
Elementals which are consciously created primarily with thought
tend to have a greater longevity and power. The Hierophants of
ancient  Egypt  knew  this  and  developed  their  ability  of  creating
these living thought-forms into a powerful science.
One  time  in  Cyprus  after  Daskalos  concluded  his  weekly
lessons, a couple of students and I wanted to explore the Great
Pyramid in Egypt. At that time, you could still bribe the night
watchmen at the pyramid and they would let you in to spend the
night. Then once you made an awkward crawl/climb well up inside
the mountain of stone blocks to the King’s chamber they locked
the entrance, turned off the lights and left you alone overnight in
absolute darkness. As we were leaving I mentioned to Daskalos

that we were considering doing this. I asked him what he thought
of  the  idea.  He  said  softly,  “You  could  do  it....but  it  will  not
change  you.  And  you  might  be  frightened,  because  there  are
Guardian  Elementals  created  by  the  Egyptian  Hierophants  still
living in the pyramids.” He very seriously added, “And sometimes
they strike you!” And he made a striking motion like a snake with
his hand and a chill ran up my spine.
The thought of being “struck” in total darkness by a 4500
year old Guardian Elemental gave us second thoughts about the
whole  idea.  Later  Daskalos  wrote  in  his Symbol  of  Life  book:
“Many Elementals created as guardians of monuments and graves
of Pharaohs in Ancient Egypt, many centuries ago, are still actively
guarding those monuments. Many Egyptologists and archeologists
have  had  bitter  experiences  when  attacked  by  those  Guardian
Elementals.”  There  are  many  stories  about  such  attacks  and  I
personally  knew  of  one  fellow  who  suffered  this  kind  of  a
terrifying attack in the Kings Chamber. But The most notable of
these stories was Napoleon Bonaparte’s experience. He invaded
and took control of Egypt in 1798, and then went to the Great
Pyramid on the Giza plateau. Napoleon asked to be left alone in
the King’s Chamber. When he came back out, he was pale and
obviously  shaken.  One  of  his  aids  asked  if  he  had  witnessed
anything. Napoleon refused to comment and forbid any one to ever
mention the episode. Over the years, he kept his experience secret.
Only  on  rare  occasion  would  he  allude  to  having  received
foreshadowing of his future, which of course did not end well for
him. Just before his demise, he was on the verge of revealing his
experience to his confidant, Las Cases. However, he stopped short
saying: “No What’s the use. You would never believe me.”
This  also  reveals  how  the  active  life  of  the  Elementals  we
create can be exceedingly long. We will find them in the Psycho-
Noetical Worlds when we pass over and they even travel with us
into our future incarnation and either help or hinder our progress.
So the advice is often given: “Be careful what you wish for, what
you desire!” Because all our desires, weaknesses, strengths, and
our habitual ways of thinking and behaving create or re-energize

Elementals. Once created an Elemental cannot be destroyed. They
continue to be active until they have fulfilled their purpose or until
they have been consciously de-energized. The Elemental cannot be
destroyed but its power can be destroyed by de-energizing it. The
secret in de-energizing an Elemental is in becoming dis-interested in
it completely.
Our  created  Elementals  come  to  form  our  personality  and
define our character. It is this personality; full of conflicting ideas,
feelings and thoughts that we have mistaken to be our real Self.
This personality self is at best a weak shadow of our real Self cast
on  the  unequal  ground  of  duality.  But  to  really  know  and
experience this truth, we must shift our sense of identity from our
shadow-self to our real Spirit-Soul Self. To do this means we must
gain mastery over our thoughts and emotions – the Elementals we
create  and  re-energize.  Mastering  our  undesirable  emotions  and
weaknesses does not mean fighting against them and suppressing
them with force. Mastering our emotions and desires means gaining
control of them, becoming their master and not their slave.
An Elemental has an existence, a life and purpose of its own.
For anything to exist it needs a form. When we have a desire for an
object, for example a type of car, we are creating an Elemental,
which is getting a form. In this example, the form of the Elemental
takes  the  shape  and  color  of  the  specific  car  we  desire.  It  first
forms in our Etheric Double at the location of the so-called third
eye. At this point before it is projected it is very small in size – the
size of the head of a pin. Yet imprinted in it are all the details we
know about the car we desire. After we project it consciously or
subconsciously it will get the full size of the object we desire. All
this is visible to a well-developed clairvoyant.
These  Elementals  are  created  through  our  Etheric  Doubles.
They  are  composed  of  etheric  substance  in  varying  degrees  of
purity  and  strength.  Once  projected  out  from  us  they  work  to
achieve their purpose – to bring about the conditions to manifest
the  desired  object  or  effect  we  consciously  or  sub-consciously
wanted.
When  we  harbor  and  express  negative  emotions  such  as

despair, jealousy, fear or hatred we create Elementals which get a
form. What form are these destructive Elementals getting? These
get the shapes of snakes, beasts and other distressing forms. They
get this form according to the quality of the desires and thought
which  created  them.  Their  forms  and  their  colors  reveal  their
natures. It is really merciful that people cannot see the forms of the
destructive Elementals as they would terrify them. It may take a
clairvoyant to see these forms but anyone can feel them. If you
approach  a  person  you  know  well  and  they  are  having  strong
negative emotions and thoughts about you it is not difficult to feel
these bad Elementals. Likewise when we are around a dear friend or
a loving companion we can easily sense these good Elementals.
So  our  good  or  bad  thoughts  and  emotions  are  continually
creating new Elementals, or re-energizing pre-existing Elementals. It
is our choice which ones we attend to and give expression. Thus
we are responsible for our own unique set of Elementals and their
effect  on  ourselves  and  those  around  us.  When  an  Elemental  is
created it forms in our Etheric Double and is projected out into the
common environment. We literally live in a sea of these good and
bad etheric entities.
Joshua  Immanuel  the  Christ  gave  a  perfect  description  of
what happens when we project negative Elementals in his parable
the “Unclean Spirit.” Christ said: “When an evil [unclean] spirit
comes out of a man, it goes through arid [waterless] places seeking
rest and does not find it. Then it says, ‘I will return to the house I
left.’ When it arrives, it finds the house unoccupied [unguarded],
and clean [open]. Then it goes and takes with it seven other spirits
more wicked than itself, and they go in and live there. And the final
condition of that man is worse than the first.”
So Joshua stated that this unclean spirit or Elemental goes out
of man, which means that he or she are giving it expression by their
feelings,  thoughts  or  actions.  It  goes  out  into  the  common
psychical  environment  –  the  “arid”  or  waterless  places.  That
means places without nourishment for it and so the Elemental does
not find the energy there it needs to sustain its life. It then returns
“home” to the personality of the one who gave it life and expressed

it. In his parables Christ referred to the personality as a home or
house.
When  the  negative  Elemental  returns,  it  finds  the  house
unoccupied, which means the personality is open and un-guarded.
Then  the  Elemental  enters  bringing  with  it  seven  other  similar
Elementals  more  destructive  than  itself.  These  Elementals  enter
through  the  centers  (charkas)  and  collect  as  one  in  our  sub-
consciousness.  Each  cycle  of  expression  and  re-absorption  of
negative  Elementals  greatly  increases  their  numbers  and  slowly
degrades the personality. Repetitive expression over time can form
large group Elementals so powerful that they can come to dominate
the  personality  leading  to  phobias,  fixed  ideas,  obsessive
compulsive disorders (OCDs) and in extreme cases insanity and
suicide.
However this very same process also works to our benefit
when we send out loving and positive life affirming Elementals. We
are  thus  strengthened  and  edified  by  our  repeated  good
expressions. The Law of Repetition in the creation of Elementals
can be one of our strongest allies or our worst enemies.
Our Elementals gather within and compose our personality’s
sub-consciousness.  Since  most  of  our  Elementals  are  primarily
composed  of  emotion,  they  are  associated  with  our  Psychical
Body and are very active within its Etheric Double. All Elementals
have a psychical component, which are our desires, feelings and
motivations. All Elementals have a Noetical component, which is
our thought and intent. No one can have a thought without some
emotion  associated  with  it.  And  likewise  no  one  can  have  an
emotion without some thought accompanying it. The Elementals
manifest more easily and more intensely in the Psychical Worlds
and  in  the  lower  Noetical  Worlds.  But  these  Elementals  cannot
reach into the higher Noetical or the states beyond the Noetical.
Our Elementals, good or bad, are stored within one of the three
chambers of our sub-consciousness and exert an influence on our
personality. Under certain circumstances they rise to our conscious
mind and seek expression. Every time we allow them expression,
we  strengthen  them.  Every  time  we  struggle  against  them  we

strengthen  them.  But  every  time  we  remove  our  attention  from
them and do not allow them expression, we weaken them. Herein
lies a clue to freeing ourselves of all kinds of undesirable habits,
weaknesses, and behaviors corrupting our personality and veiling
the light of our own true nature.
Our character is either debased or dignified by our expressions
of these Elementals. Negative emotional based Elementals of fear,
hatred,  jealousy,  envy,  possessiveness  and  meanness  create
conditional hells within our personality. Their influences torture
our minds and hearts and in many cases result in illnesses to the
material  body.  They  live  and  thrive  on  our  Etheric  Vitality.  In
cases  where  their  withdrawal  is  excessive,  our  material  body  is
deprived  of  the  energy  it  needs  and  becomes  weakened  and
illnesses start to appear.
Consider what happens when a person becomes angry and
enraged.  During  these  fits  of  anger,  aggressive  war  loving
Elementals gain access to that person’s etheric energy. An angry
person becomes red in the face, the body temperature goes up and
reason goes out the window. Sometimes they shout, threaten, slap
and in extreme cases kill. A person under the influence of anger is
convinced that they are rightly justified in expressing anger in these
ways. But when the person eventually calms down again, they feel
weak  and  exhausted  clearly  revealing  the  loss  of  their  Etheric
Vitality. It is said that sustained outbursts of anger can waste more
energy  than  we  get  from  eating  a  month’s  worth  of  food.  This
excessive  withdrawal  of  vital  energy  stresses  and  weakens  the
body. The American Heart Association did a study and stated that:
“People who are highly anger-prone are nearly three times more
likely to have a heart attack.”
There is a popular method offered today by psychologists for
dealing with anger that is very dangerous and should be abandoned
completely.  Some  psychologists,  who  do  not  know  about
Elementals that drive anger, advise that when you feel anger to go
and beat your pillows with your fist or a baseball bat. Beating the
pillows  you  sleep  on  to  discharge  feelings  of  anger  may  give  a
momentary  release  of  pressure.  However,  the  process  greatly

strengthens the aggressive Elementals in your sub-consciousness as
well as the habit of expressing them. It also leaves the pillow you
sleep on tainted with vibrations of anger. Never express anger in
the bedroom where you sleep or when you eat. Hitting pillows is
better than hitting people but it is a poor technique when seeking a
real and lasting cure.
There are many methods offering healthier ways to deal with
angry feelings today. One of the more effective ways is through
breathing. By watching your breath and maintaining a calm deep
regular breathing rate you gain control of your Etheric Double. In
gaining  control  of  your  Etheric  Double  you  deprive  aggressive
Elementals from accessing this vital energy field. Then you can gain
control over the violent psychical vibrations known as anger and
suffocate  it.  In  gaining  control  you  become  the  master  of  these
fierce Elementals and not their puppets.
Harmful Elementals are spreading like plagues through all the
nations  on  the  planet  today.  Everywhere,  people  are  in
confusion...not because of what God has made of man but what
man has made of man. People mistake obstinacy as real will power
temptation as opportunity; and our greatest mistake of all is in
confusing the real Self with its reflection the personality. Our semi-
conscious personality is the sum total of all our transient feelings,
thoughts, and attitudes we express. These contradictory strengths
and weaknesses create a distorted and dim reflection of our real
Self.
The life of most personalities is eighty percent subconscious.
The common person wakes in the morning and habitually dresses;
and then routinely goes about the day dealing with the issues of
their existence in a mostly sub-conscious way. At night they sleep
and for a certain period of time the go into a kind of temporary
non-exist in deep dreamless sleep. The next day they get up, their
personality is recomposed exactly as it was the day before, and
the cycle continues day after day. By sleepwalking through our
daily patterns; are we really living life? Or is this the life of the
living dead?
Everyone is in their divinely appointed place to get their next

important life experience. What is asked of us as personalities is to
wake  from  our  subconscious  slumbering  and  become  more  and
more conscious of what we do, why we do it and what we really
are. This leads us from sub-consciousness, to consciousness, to
real   Self-Consciousness   and   eventually   to   Self-Super
Consciousness.
But first we need to understand the nature of the Elementals
driving  our  sub-conscious  living  patterns;  by  understanding  our
responsibility in dealing with them. And how we build them, how
they are affecting us and the people around us. In studying the
Elementals we can learn the way we can de-energize the harmful
ones  and  how  to  construct  Shield  Elementals,  which  serve  as
protecting Angels. Shield Elementals stop the influence of negative
Elementals  on  us  and  on  our  loved  ones. A  mother,  father  or
anyone who knows the way, can create a protecting angel for a
child or anyone they love and bring it to life.

PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
Daskalos once rhetorically asked: “What can prayer be? It is
the  creation  of  Angelic  Elementals,  constructive  Elementals,
praying for the health of others and to help our fellow-men. Our
whole life is the creation of these Elementals, the greatest art one
should learn is to create good Elementals, good thought-forms for
himself or herself and for the others in his family and for other
people.”
Of  course  every  loving  feeling,  every  noble  intention  and
every heart-felt prayer automatically creates an angelic Elemental.
However, when created Self-Consciously, understanding what we
are doing, these benevolent Elementals gain real power. In creating
strong human in nature Angels for those we love it is helpful to be
consistent and energize the angelic Elemental repeatedly for some
days. Such exercises can be done for about ten minutes each day
for a few consecutive days or as many as fifteen days using the
Law of Repetition to empower it. It is very important to keep in
mind that our motivation and intent must be pure. This creation is
to be a humble prayer offered from one human being to another in
love.
Never  are  we  allowed  to  impose  our  will  on  others  or  to
manipulate  and  interfere  with  their  free  will.  Once  you  have
finished the prayer, forget about it completely until the designated
time to repeat it the next day. The angelic Elemental you create
must be allowed to do its work. If you keep remembering it, re-
thinking it you hold the Elemental to you and do not release it to
fulfill its purpose. It is best if you can do this practice at the same
time each day and in the exact same location. Choose someplace
where you will not be disturbed. Before beginning any spiritual
practice or exercise it is important to be relaxed and calm. This
means quieting our mind and silencing our emotions and desires.
Then it is good to do some simple breathing to fill yourself with
ample Etheric Vitality to empower this prayer. There are many
forms this practice can take and it is advised that you refer to the
Esoteric  Practices  book  by  Daskalos  before  attempting  more

advanced ones

PRACTICE: CREATING ANGELIC ELEMENTALS
To create a simple angelic Elemental for a loved one we will use the
white light.
In a meditative state with eyes closed see your hands with fingers
tips touching and palms apart. Breathe deeply and calmly.
See and feel these etheric hands fill with pure white light. With every
breath, the snow-white light becomes brighter and brighter.
Continue breathing deeply and comfortably. Now feel and see the
white light forming into a ball of light between you palms.
You may feel a tingling sensation, warmth or slight pressure in
your hands as the sphere becomes brighter and more substantial.
Breathe again and see the ball of light become brilliant as its light
emanates through your fingers and hands.
Now see clearly the face of the loved one you want to help. Send this
ball of light to them with the sincere wish that it helps and protects
them.
Visualize  this  sphere  of  luminous  white  light  going  to  them
wherever they are in the world. See it entering through their head to
become a white egg shaped form encompassing their entire body in
sparkling white light.
End with the affirmation: “Thy Will Be Done”.

Chapter Eleven
BRICK BY BRICK
 
No two human beings are similar! What’s the difference now? Our
material bodies are always composed of the same material. As the
orthodox science is saying: water, salts, proteins, and everything
else. But, the personality of a man is not the product of his material
body. You will find very, very healthy people, yet stupid. And you
have also very, very healthy people who are scientists. And you
have very ill and weak people sometime who are geniuses. And you
also have people who are very weak and sickly, who are stupid. So,
the condition of the material body is not responsible for the
personality in it.
 
What about the personality? Is the personality of all men composed
of the same substance? The same substance – yes, but not the same
quality of substance. Now we have many qualities of substance.
What is making this quality of substance? We ourselves! The
Super-Substance of the Mind is pure. What about when you are
using it creating your desires, weaknesses, purposes in life, and
misconceptions? So, we will never find two persons with the same
character. The composition of those personalities is the sum totalof
the Elementals composing them. The thought forms. Day and night
and every moment; even while sleeping, we are creating Elementals
or revitalizing them. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
The  first  thing  a  human  being  does  in  life  is  to  develop  a
personality. The personality self-awareness is nothing more than a
shadow  of  their  real  Soul  Self-Awareness  that  has  been  cast  in
time, space and place. So how does this personality get formed? It
has been repeated many times that a human being, in its real nature,
is an eternal Spirit-Soul. But to exist in the time, space and place
Worlds  of  Existence  we  certainly  need  to  develop  a  healthy
personality. How our personality is built will be the subject of this
lesson.
It is easy to see that no two personalities are built exactly the
same. But except for the weight and look, every male material body
is the same as all other male material bodies. And except for the
weight and look, all female bodies are like other female bodies. The
Holy Archangels are building our material bodies and that building
process is perfectly under the control of these highly intelligent
brothers of ours. They build up material bodies from the various
elements of matter. That is why we call them Archangels of the
Elements,  because  they  use  the  various  elements  to  build  our
material bodies and the material world we inhabit. The Archangels
of the Elements, the builders, are flawlessly expressing the Will and
Pleasure of God as well as their own Will-Pleasure: both in groups
and individually. They use the Mind perfectly in all its degrees to
build up the created Worlds of Existence. So we have the creation
and the creators.
But in this lesson we will see what material we ourselves use
to build up our own personality. Of course we are using the Mind
to create with too, but we do it imperfectly, not understanding
exactly what we are doing. But in their creation the Archangels use
the almightiness, which means they maintain perfect control over
their creative works and nothing escapes their attention.
The human beings attention however is focused on the outer
world of separation. Conditions in the outer world are attracting
and  capturing  our  attention  through  the  five  senses  but  mostly
through sight. And this outward attraction is obscuring the greater

truth of our own Divine Nature. However our personality can with
effort,  over  time  assimilate  its  awareness  with  the  Soul  Self-
Awareness  and  reach  the  highest  state  of  Self-Super-
Consciousness. Then there will not be a difference between the
Archangels and us, in terms of consciousness.
But  first  we  must  learn  about  our  personality,  which  of
course  is  much  more  than  just  our  material  body.  So  we  start
analyzing our personality to understand its composition. We see
the material body is part of our personality self and its form is on
the  material  body.  Our  personality  self-awareness  is  the  total
collection  of  our  Elementals  –  all  our  thoughts,  emotions  and
desires.
Now we have to think, where are all these Elementals coming
from that form our personality? We have to understand that we are
creating Elementals out of the Mind and the Mind is living. Or we
are re-energizing pre-existing Elementals using the Mind. Literally
everything existing in all the universes has been created from the
Mind and so it is living in its own way. However, when we say
everything existing is created from the living Mind, we do not mean
that the eternal Spirit Beings were created from the Mind. They
have not been created at all and so they will never cease to be. But
the Archangelic builders have created the universes and everything
in  them  using  the  Mind. And  this  is  done  in  the  Eternal  Now.
Working  in  the  Eternal  Now  the Archangels  have  in  them  the
Divine Plan, the entire Circle of Possibilities and all the points of
development  on  this  circle.  For  example,  this  means  they  are
working in constant meditation on all points of the development of
a tree. They work on its life as a seed, to a sapling, to its full form
as a mature tree and all the way to the end of its existence.
And they are creating billions and billions of the same forms
working on all points of development in that Circle of Possibilities
for all the individual trees simultaneously. And they are doing that
with all the countless forms of life from the smallest to the largest.
This  is  only  possible  because  they  enjoy  the  highest  state  of
consciousness called Super-Consciousness. Just try to conceive of
the Total Wisdom and Power of these Archangelic Beings. And

when contacted they are willing to teach a sincere seeker things
beyond the seeker’s wildest imagination.
Now within the Circle of Possibilities for the human beings
are all the possibilities of the Archangels too, because the Human
Idea Archetype is contained in the Archangelic Archetype. And to
develop  these  possibilities  to  the  point  of  realization,  we  must
study the Human Circle of Possibilities to find our current place in
that circle.
The seeker does this by using the Mind consciously. Now we
mostly use the Mind sub-consciously in revitalizing pre-existing
groups  of  Elementals,  which  were  created  by  our  predecessors.
Where are these pre-existing Elementals residing? Of course it is
the Mind but more accurately, it is that aspect of the Mind called
the  cosmic  and  planetary  sub-consciousness.  Just  like  a  human
being has their sub-consciousness, our planet, our solar system our
galaxy and the entire Cosmos has a sub-consciousness that records
everything  that  has  happened  there.  In  the  planetary  sub-
consciousness there are all of the Elementals of everything human
beings have created since their arrival on the planet. Again all these
have been created from the living indestructible Mind and so these
Elementals  are  living  and  indestructible  too.  They  cannot  be
destroyed  but  the  power  in  them  can  be  de-energized,  and  this
renders them inactive. Inactive but not annihilated.
The composition of our material body is well known, yet in
our material body, our personality has an independent life and a
different composition. Our personality is and is not our Real self.
At the very heart of it is our Real Self, the ray of our Spirit-Soul
Self,  but  the  rest  of  its  composition  is  not  our  Real  Self.  The
personality and its material body are living because in them is the
Pulse of Life, which comes from the Holy Spirit and the Real Self.
However,  the  unique  way  each  personality  is  living  is  different
from the way other personalities are living. Life is common but the
way we are living our life differs from the way others are living
their  life.  This  is  because  the  entire  set  of  our  Elementals  that
compose  our  personality  is  different  from  the  Elementals
composing  other  personalities.  Our  unique  set  of  personal

Elementals is not our Real Self. How can we be sure?
Through introspection we can know this for sure. But really
all we have to do is to think about our personality as a child, a
teenager or an adult. The Elementals, our thoughts, emotions and
desires, composing our personality at any point in time are never
the same. Your thoughts, emotions and desires as a child are not
the same as you have as an adult. And they will definitely not be
the  same  as  you  have  as  an  elderly  person.  Where  did  that
personality of you as a small child go?
So this is our task as a human being; to study and know our
personality  as  it  is  now.  This  means  studying  our  thoughts,
emotions and desires that are composing our personality. Just as a
house is built brick by brick, our personality and thus our character
is  built  Elemental  by  Elemental.  Everything  that  comes  to  our
attention and we start thinking about it, creates and gives life to an
Elemental. Anything that causes vibrations in our Psychical Body
as desire for something, or aversion to something, empowers the
Elemental. Attraction  and  repulsion  are  forces  in  the  Psychical
Body. This gives us Elementals in different degrees of power.
An Elemental is a living existence and anything existing must
have a form. And we are the ones giving the form to the Elemental
when  we  create  one  consciously.  But  when  we  create  one  sub-
consciously, the Elemental gets a form according to its own nature,
which means the nature of the emotions and thoughts that created
it. So an Elemental has form and power. And the power depends
on  the  intensity  of  our  desire,  our  emotion,  and  the  number  of
times it is repeated. This is something the Hindus understand and
it is what empowers their repetitive mantras. Looking at the power
the  Elementals  have  over  our  personality  we  see  that  our
personality tends to obey the law of the Elemental. For example
we have the law of attraction, of knowing and having. So when you
see  something  that  interests  you,  the  already  pre-existing
Elementals  in  you  exert  a  force  of  persuasion  in  your  sub-
consciousness. You feel the urge to know more about the subject of
your interest and that gives the Elemental strength and energy.
And then to get existence through you, the Elemental excites

your Psychical Body, the body of your emotions and desires and
now you want to have it. The feeling of wanting something is not
exactly the same as the desire of possessiveness. The feeling of
possessiveness is really negative power. Possessiveness enslaves
you to the object of desire and you call that object “mine” and you
do  not  want  others  to  use  it.  That  is  possessiveness.  Since  an
Elemental is living it has a self-preserving directive to prolong its
own life. So it is an absolute necessity for that Elemental to get
more energy from you to continue living. And it can be so cunning
in this effort.
Remember your personality is composed by the entire set of
Elementals you harbor and express. And they are stored in your
sub-consciousness as well as in the Planetary Sub-Consciousness.
However it is best not to speak much about the sub-consciousness
of the planet. But we can say that when an Elemental has fulfilled
the purpose of its creation it doesn’t get destroyed but becomes
de-energized and enters the sub-consciousness of the planet, which
is a part of the cosmic sub-consciousness. There it remains inactive
until  someone  else  comes  along  who  resonates  to  the  same
vibration of that Elemental and re-awakens it and the Elemental
comes to them.
So  we  have  to  be  extremely  careful  what  Elementals  we
awaken  and  revitalize  because  once  we  do...  they  will  not
automatically de-energize until they fulfill their purpose. And we
should be especially vigilant with the desires we believe are very,
very important to us today. As Daskalos often warned us, our
most important desires today may become serious obstacles to us
later in this life or in a future incarnation. Maybe you have had the
experience of something coming to you in this life that thwarts and
delays you from accomplishing something good you are working to
accomplish. Another way of saying this is that all your desires will
certainly be fulfilled...but when? They will be fulfilled in what we
call the future, the future in this life or in future incarnations. But
they  will  be  fulfilled,  unless  you  consciously  de-energize  them
before they come to fruition.
All of us have created Elementals with good and bad qualities

and these exist in a range of degrees of purity. They can be really
bad  Elementals,  somewhat  bad  Elementals  or  slightly  bad
Elementals. They also can be very good noble Elementals, good
Elementals or slightly good Elementals. And there is a constant
fight between the good and bad Elementals within our personality.
When this war gets intense it can make us very, very unhappy.
An  Elemental  can  be  detected  in  the  aura  of  the  material
body’s  Etheric  Double.  When  we  give  birth  to  an  Elemental  it
continues to grow and change its appearance. Both the good and
bad Elementals take on a coloring. So the color of an Elemental is
showing  its  nature  and  strength  as  it  expresses  itself  within  a
personality. And these Elementals have power, the power we give
them by our intensity and the number of times we have repeated
them.
To detect the ones in us, we need to enter within ourselves,
observe and understand the composition of our personality then
decide to change what we need to change. For example, say you
have a very strong desire in you for having something. We all have
desires for something. Desire is not bad in and of itself. Christ was
saying we have the right to ask God, for what we need. But we
should  check  our  desires  to  see  if  the  object  of  our  desire  is
something good and needed or if it is not. So we investigate this in
order to understand the nature of that desire. The Elementals have
their own consciousness and when the Elementals strongly exert an
attraction to the object of the desire, they approach you offering
some benefit to your personality. And if we mistakenly identify
our personality to be our real Self, then we are likely to think the
offer will truly benefit us and so we accept it.
The Elemental’s desire is a force of attraction to that which is
of its own nature or quality. And that attraction has an influence
on us. Elementals can be good or bad advisors to us depending on
their nature. An Elemental has its work to do in order to fulfill the
purpose  for  which  it  was  created.  However  the  Elemental’s
purpose may or may not be in harmony with your stated purpose
in life or with the Divine Plan.
Now we could draw an analogy between a harmful Elemental

and a physical tapeworm. A parasitic tapeworm, attaches itself to
the intestine and then it secretes a chemical that makes the person
crave what is good for the tapeworm. On a continual basis it draws
energy  from  the  person  it  hosts  on.  In  a  similar  parasitic  way,
harmful Elementals attach to your Etheric Doubleand make you
crave or desire that which the harmful Elementalwas created for.
And it is drawing energy from you, the Elemental’s host.
We all have a mixture of good and bad Elementals. Now both
the good and the bad Elementals want to draw the attention of their
master, which is you. And the good, reasoning Elementals interfere
with the negative Elementals and vice versa. Then we have inner
conflict or in some cases outright war. Who pays for that war? You
do! It is like you are a storeowner with lots of delicate items for
sale. Then two quarreling people come in your store and start a
physical fight and as they fight they tear up your store. Such is the
effect of conflicting Elementals in your sub-consciousness.
Now when we study our inner conflicts in Introspection who
is doing this study? Is it you as a personality or you as the Inner
Self? It can be either. When it is you as your Inner Self you will
assuredly win the war. But if it is you as a personality the war can
be horrific. And yet if you as a personality, realizing something of
your real nature as life, get a decision to end the war and change for
the better, that is a step forward. And this step forward is toward
the assimilation of your personality self with your Inner Self. This
assimilation gives true joy – joy to the personality and to your
attending Archangels. Christ stated this when he said: “Joy to your
Angels  in  Heaven  for  the  one  who  repents.”  The  word  repents
means a change of heart, mind and action and a return back home to
their Divine Nature.
Now  we  said  that  the  Elementals  could  be  detected  in  the
aura. But do not imagine them sleeping or in a dormant state in
your aura. On the contrary, they are very active and affect your
personality.  According  to  their  purpose,  Elementals  make  you
aware of certain things; they give you knowledge of certain things
according to their purposes. And then there is a reaction in your
personality maybe it is mild reaction or a very strong reaction. Pay

attention  when  you  have  reactions  to  things  –  especially  the
automatic knee-jerk kind of reactions. This happens because there
is  an  influence  coming  from  the  Elementals,  which  immediately
causes your Psychical Body to react as well as your emotions and
thoughts.  Now  other  kinds  of  Elementals  are  drawn  in  to  this
process  and  their  impulse  in  you  creates  even  more  Elementals
associated with the initial reaction.
Now the newly good or bad Elemental will have many other
similar Elementals that come forward and accept it and welcome it
in. And  they  give  some  of  their  own  power  to  that  Elemental,
which has a similar vibration. This increases the propagation of
Elementals  –  good  or  bad  Elementals.  Pre-existing  good  or  bad
Elementals in us will always come forward with their influence and
suggestions. But if we are living sub-consciously we will not notice
that. So we must introspect with concentration and observation to
notice  these  influences  within  our  personality.  We  must  stay
vigilant in order to understand what is really going on. This means
using  the  Mind  in  a  higher  rate  of  vibration  in  detached
observation. Observation means to be on the alert, which is to say:
Watch!Christ  advised  people  to  watch  and  pray.  Watch  what?
Pray  for  what?  We  watch  and  pray  so  that  we  do  not  enter
temptation. To watch and pray over our own personality so that it
does not become tempted. Actually we are in temptation all the
time. So really, we need to watch and pray that we do not succumb
to the temptations that are all around us.
The Lord’s Prayer has been translated back and forth between
different languages and eventually handed down to us with a line in
it asking God not to lead us into temptation. Does God really lead
human  beings  into  temptation?  Or  is  that  the  job  of  others?
According to the Akashic records, Christ gave this part of what is
called the Lord’s Prayer after materializing food to feed the 5000.
And his words were, “Lead us while being in temptation”. This is
a much more accurate way to say this.
This  lesson  is  very  important  for  everyone  on  the  planet
because temptation is a part of humankind’s life now, just as it
was in all past times and will be in the future. And today there is

an  ever-growing  quantity  of  temptations  available  to  us.
Temptation  is  a  condition  we  undergo,  which  comes  with  an
ordeal. But unfortunately people too often mistake what are really
their temptations to be their opportunities in life and go astray.
To discover how we are tempted we need to first sit down
and enter the silence. We need to be quiet and peaceful in order to
detect those Elementals that are tempting and misguiding us. In
finding them, be careful not to make the mistake of accusing your
own personality or take on the unhealthy feeling of guilt for your
errors. No need to accuse your personality for its mistakes, just
make corrections so the mistakes are not repeated. To feel negative
about yourself, and think: “Oh I am a bad person, I did this and
that wrong, alas I am a sinner,” is a total waste of time and leads
nowhere but down.
These are actually the masochistic tendencies of your egoism,
which likes to play both sides. Playing both sides feeds the egoism
making  it  feel  more  alive.  It  will  praise  you  and  blame  you.
Because,  both  praise  and  blame  energize  the  egoism.  Which  is
probably the source of the old saying: “Praise and blame are both
the same.” Also beware of this dynamic outside yourself. People
who are so quick to praise others tend to be just as quick to blame
others.
Keep  in  mind  no  matter  how  evil  a  person’s  words  and
actions may be; there are no evil people. Their behavior may be
rooted in what you call evil but human beingsare created by God
and  thus  cannot  be  evil.  But  human  beings  can  be  ignorantly
misguided and so the harmful outcome of their actions is called evil.
Now we come to a very important part in the teachings. Christ
advised us not to fight or resist evil. Why? This is because you
cannot put out a fire with more fire. You need water to put out a
fire. Similarly we cannot extinguish hatred or other evil feelings in
people except by love.
Now in our study to make corrections to our personality we
have  to  separate  our  sense  of  self  from  the  impulses  of  our
Elementals. We mistake these impulses to be coming from our real
Self. So the first thing to do is to break this subconscious impulse-

reaction habit by coming to a solid decision not to be in such a
hurry  to  react.  Do  not  just  immediately  obey  to  the  impulses
coming  from  your  pre-existing  Elementals.  Secondly  we  can
employ the help of pre-existing good Elementals. These are our
ally  Elementals. And  they  will  come  to  our  aid  because  these
Elementals are quite alert and active in us too. The great art we
should learn is how to create good ally Elementals; good thought
forms for our self, for our family and friends. We also must learn
how  to  consciously  de-energize  the  unwanted  Elementals  with
reason. Then we will see the Elemental is losing it color and power.
When any Elemental good or bad has fulfilled its purpose it also
loses its color and power and becomes inactive.
But when a strong desire type Elemental is not fulfilled or
consciously  de-energized  what  happens?  The  devil  of  our  own
egoism increases its obstinacy and comes forward with dangerous
sets of whys. Why are my desires not fulfilled? Why do other
people  get  their  desire  fulfilled  and  not  me?  Now  the  ancient
Elemental of jealousy can find a place in you and make you feel
even  worse.  If  you  continue  on  this  dangerous  course  of
questioning you may ask: “Who is preventing me from having my
desire fulfilled.” Sometimes it is the people around you who love
you that are keeping your desires from being fulfilled. If this is the
case,  there  is  a  greater  danger  in  starting  to  resent  them  and  in
extreme cases may even find ways to take revenge on them.
Of  course,  all  these  lower  nature  tendencies  have  to  be
rejected. If you hold on to these unhealthy feelings coming from
your egoism, immediately there is a self-punishment, as they are
producing harmful toxins in your bodies. So we must study our
inner conditions and impulses. The gain of detecting these egoistic
impulses  is  twofold.  One  gain  is  by  identifying  mistakes  and
misguidance;  we  can  make  corrections  to  prevent  further  pain,
suffering  and  trouble.  The  second  gain  is  that  this  process  will
slowly start to reveal your Real Self. Your Real Self is the master
of your body, emotions and thoughts and will act as the master if
your egoism is not allowed to interfere and take control. Even at
the lowest level of our Selfhood (the personality), God’s gift of

free will is preserved.
And there is a great and good by-product of gaining control
over the creation of Elementals. Elementals sap our energy in the
continuation of their life. When you eliminate the unhealthy and
unnecessary  ones,  you  have  more  energy  to  empower  the  good
thought-desire Elementals. Thought-desire means the Elemental has
more thought than desire, which make them more effective. Now
the  good  creative  Elementals  will  have  more  energy  and  power,
which means they are able to manifest and bring good results more
quickly.  By  creating  fewer  Elementals  but  more  powerful  ones,
you know the way to have what you need sooner, rather than later.
And to reach this point we must go into that part of our sub-
consciousness where we store all these Elementals. There we clean
and remove the numerous unhealthy and unnecessary Elementals.
The  mastery  of  your  Elementals  will  make  your  life  more
manageable. This mastery will give you real satisfaction. Whereas
before maybe you were more of a slave to these Elementals and a
slave enjoys no satisfaction.
Daskalos was always telling us, we must avoid following the
impulse of our desires without any reasoning. He taught how there
is no end to desiring. And he punctuated his teaching on this with
personal anecdote. He told us about a childhood friend in school
who was extremely poor. Daskalos felt great love for that friend.
Sometime later after graduation and Daskalos was employed, the
fellow came to Daskalos and asked him to help get him a job there.
He told Daskalos he was starving and still living with his mother in
a little tiny house. His mother was washing clothes just to earn
enough money so they both could live. Daskalos helped get him a
job where he worked.
But at work the fellow seemed absentminded all the time, but
he was not really absentminded. He was always concentrating on
those dangerous “whys” we were just speaking about. In his mind
he was asking: “Why am I so poor?” “Why am I starving?” “Why
are some people around me so very, very rich?” “Their children
my age and have everything but I have nothing!” He was eighteen
at the time and Daskalos was seventeen. At seventeen, the young

Daskalos had been giving these teachings for ten years.
One day he came to Daskalos and asked if he could attend
Daskalos’ lessons. Daskalos replied: “Why not?” So he attended a
lesson on the Elementals, which revealed much about visualization.
Then after just this one lesson he thanked Daskalos saying: “I
got the golden key.”
Daskalos sighed: “Good God what does that mean?”
His  friend  happily  replied:  “Now  I  know  how  to  get
everything I want.”
“Really”, Daskalos replied, “but are you sure that what you
want is what you should have?”
“Definitely,” his friend replied enthusiastically.
Before long, the friend’s mother passed over and he was left
with  her  little  house.  This  happened  around  1940s  and  his
mother’s  house  must  not  have  even  had  a  proper  bathroom.
Because the fellow complained to Daskalos that he did not want to
pay rent for that one room house and be dirty.
Daskalos said: “Well, then what do you want.”
He  said:  “I  just  want  a  house  with  three  rooms  and  a
bathroom to wash myself.”
Daskalos  asked:  “What  are  you  doing  to  get  that  kind  of
house – visualizing it?”
His friend said yes, that he had gotten Daskalos lesson on
how  to  create  Elementals  self-consciously  through  visualization
and that is what he was doing.
He came to Daskalos some months later and asked him to
come  to  his  house  for  coffee.  Daskalos  agreed.  So  one  Sunday,
Daskalos went to his friend’s new address to find he had gotten the
house  that  he  had  been  visualizing.  The  fellow  had  his  desired
house in mind and one day as he was riding his bicycle he saw a
house for sale that matched his visualization. So he managed to get
a second job in order to make monthly payments for the desired
house.
Eventually the friend left where he and Daskalos worked and
he got a better job. And then one day Daskalos saw him again and
the fellow again asked Daskalos to come to his house, this time for

lunch. Daskalos said: “Yes, I know where your house is and I will
come.”
The man corrected Daskalos saying: “No I sold that house.
Now  I  got  a  newer  house,  maybe  it  is  even  better  than  your
house.”
Daskalos arrived at his friend’s new and better house, and he
told Daskalos: “I am doing as you teach using my mind to get...”
Daskalos  interrupted:  “Look  here,  honestly  you  are  doing
stupid things...”
His friend then interrupted Daskalos and said, “No I got this
with my work and sweat I remember what you told me.”
Years later Daskalos’ friend got married to a very beautiful
woman who was also very rich. The man got more houses and built
multistory apartment buildings in Limassol on the Mediterranean
Sea. He started several companies and became even richer.
At this point it had been over 50 years since the friend had
come to Daskalos’ lesson and got the key of visualization. And
again Daskalos meets him and goes with him to see his latest home.
This time he showed Daskalos his apartments and said: “These are
mine now.”
Daskalos only made an “Um” sound.
His friend questioned Daskalos’ lack of enthusiasm for his
success saying: “Why are you doing that?”
Daskalos told him that these buildings will never be his and
that he was under a false idea of ownership.
His  friend  protested  saying:  “No,  no  I  am  rich.”  He  had
brought Daskalos to look at his apartments in a very luxurious car.
Daskalos continued to try to help him see beyond his egoistic
desires and asked: “Don’t you think a cheaper car would do the
same work?”
His friend reacted saying: “Do you think I brought you here
just so you could tell me that I am a fool?”
Daskalos assured him that he did not call him a fool.
His friend proclaimed loudly, “I am not a fool,” and then he
asked Daskalos, “What do you want me to do?”
Daskalos asked: “When did you go abroad on a vacation with

your wife and children?”
“Ooooh I need so much money for that,” the fellow moaned.
Daskalos continued dismantling the man’s egoism with love
and reason saying: “But you have so much money now, when will
you start enjoying life”?
“What? Enjoy life”, he replied, “I am too busy now to enjoy
life.”
It was at this point that Daskalos did go ahead and call him a
fool...” a miserablefool.”
The shaken fellow tried to reinforce his crumbling egoism by
again claiming: “No! I am not a fool. I have something else in mind.
I want to be an owner in a ship.”
Now Daskalos started laughing out loud. “How old are you?”
“Oh stop it, don’t remind me of that,” he complained.
But  Daskalos  was  unstoppable  and  continued  with:  “How
will you manage to carry all these material things with you when
you pass over?”
His deflated friend was already disturbed by the idea of death
and protested, “I did not bring you here just to torture me!”
Then  Daskalos  kindly  delivered  his  friend  a  much  needed
lesson by saying: “Was it not better to continue the lesson on how
to improve yourself instead of getting, as you think, that golden
key to fulfill your desires?”
Daskalos’  point  was  this:  ungratefulness  to  God  and
dissatisfaction with life are blasphemes. And that one should be
grateful with what God has given and enjoy life. Enjoy life but not
in a stupid way like his friend was doing by creating and serving
only materialistic desires. Unfortunately, too many people are still
following similar sub-conscious patterns of living. They habitually
repeat the same mistakes; they make the same missteps today and
will tomorrow as they have done yesterday. And so often, these
are the same people who are complaining and blaming everyone
except their own self. And thus they are not benefiting from their
lessons in the schoolhouse of life.
Of course it is good and right to ask God to give us what we
need in order to make reasonable advancements in our life. But to

devote all your time to chasing after riches and not enjoy the life
God has given you...well, it is a huge mistake. At the end of the
day,  this  way  of  living  ends  up  creating  an  army  of  desire
Elementals  that  impedes  and  blocks  the  ability  to  enjoy  life  on
earth.
These teachings Daskalos brought forth are really the Science
of  Life.  The  Science  of  Life  leads  us  out  of  the  confusion,  the
illusions  and  pain.  God  has  given  an  abundance  of  everything
humans need to enjoy life and be happy. When it comes to being
happy and enjoying life it is not the quantity of things you have,
but the disposition of the heart that counts.

PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
Our personality is like a house we live in and express through.
A  house  is  built  brick  by  brick  and  our  personality  is  built
Elemental  by  Elemental.  The  Elementals  are  created  by  every
thought, desire, word and action. And our thoughts, desires, words
and actions have a range of purity, from very pure to not so pure.
Thus the purity and quality of our personality also has this same
range. Elementals always return to their creator and become part of
their conscious and Sub Conscious mind. So all human beings are in
a  condition  of  their  own  creation  which  makes  each  of  us
responsible for that good or bad condition.
With  common  materials  such  as  stone,  wood,  iron  and
concrete we can build a closed in prison where no light enters. Or
with the exact same materials we can build a splendid palace full of
beauty, harmony and light. The materials are not important; it is
the  intention  of  the  builder  that  determines  if  the  materials  are
turned into a palace or a prison. In a similar way we ourselves have
built up our personality, which can be like a palace, a prison, or a
mixture of both. We all have been given the same basic substance to
create  the  building  blocks  of  our  personality.  From  this  basic
substance we have created the Elementals (thoughts, emotions and
desires), which build a radiant palace-like personality full of light,
love,  wisdom  and  strength.  Or  they  create  animprisoned
personality, darkened by negativity, doubt, fear, and anger. There
is nothing wrong with the substance we use as thought, emotion
and desire; it is how we use it that makes all the difference. So from
now on our responsibility is to tear down our prison and build up
our palace.

PRACTICE: MEDITATION
First completely relax. Start relaxing your material body from your
feet.
Then relax your knees and thighs.
Relax you solar plexus.
Relax your chest completely.
Now relax the hands you feel them completely relaxed
Breathe deeply and comfortable without any effort.
Silence  your  emotions  and  still  your  thoughts.  Let  everything
standstill.
There are no thoughts coming to your mind to disturb you.
You feel completely calm – mentally, emotionally and physically.
You are completely relaxed, yet you are you.
Who are you?
Forget your name and your gender.
Ask yourself: I am a living being but what am I as life?I AM I.
But I want to know what my I-ness really is.
I find my Divine Nature, my I-ness, is now covered with a name,
thoughts, emotions and a body.
Now I want to find my I-ness, my real Self, the I AM, which is
beyond the Worlds of Existence.
Now as a personality I want to feel this I AM. Now complete the
circle and say I AM I.
But What am I – this feeling of just Being?
Just try to understand what you are at this moment.
I feel I am in a material body.
Being in your body you possess something more valuable than
anything material around you.
Now I feel being in my body from head to toe.
Say to yourself I want this body to be healthy!
This Elemental of a healthy body you are creating will help you
restore or maintain good health.

Say again: I want my material body to be perfectly healthy always!
I want strength, health and wholeness in my material body.
Breathe deeply and feel your Heart Center. Simply feel your heart.
And say silently: I want all my emotions and desires to be under my
control.
I want all my emotional Elementals composing my personality to
calm down.
I want them to calm down so I will be able to shape, control them
and use them consciously.
I want to create beautiful emotions of love and goodness.
Feel you are in the head now.
Say: I want all my thoughts to be under my control and not to serve
the emotions.
I want to use my thoughts to make a better life for my personality.
I want to create thoughts of clarity and wisdom.
Now we make the most important request
Sincerely say: I want to know more about myself as a personality
and as a Soul.
Say it again: I want to know more about myself as a personality
and as a Soul.
I want all the negative thoughts and emotions that disturb me to be
under my control.
I want all the weaknesses in my egoism causing me trouble to now
be under my control.
Now see material body covered in shining white light.
From your Heart Center see rays of beautiful rosy light spreading
all around you.
Now say: No hostile feelings or thoughts from others may enter my
personality and affect me!

Chapter Twelve
I LAUGH WHEN I HEAR THE FISH IS
THIRSTY
 
We may see another aspect of the Mind expression of the
Almightiness. We can see it as energy, as Etheric Vitality. Where
can we see that? In our bodies. That’s our daily bread we are
asking God to give us, “Give us this day our daily bread” – the
Etheric Vitality. How do we get it in our bodies? In three ways. The
first is known – eating, drinking and sleep. The second is breathing
the Etheric Vitality, and the third and the most important is –
breathing spiritually. How can we know that? By training. And,
when we know that, what can we do? We can become masters of
matter. We can materialize the Etheric Vitality or dematerialize it.
We can change the nature of matter. These are not stories or myths
but the reality.
 
On one occasion Joshua Emmanuel the Christ put in a basket five
little loaves of bread and two fish. He prayed to the Holy Spirit and
the Logos. He was putting both his hands in the basket containing
only two fish and five loaves of bread. The left hand came out with
a piece of bread and the other one with a fried fish. “Give to each
person a loaf of bread.” There were only two fish and five loaves of
bread in that basket. How did He feed the 5000? He was
materializing the Etheric Vitality. That is not a myth. That was a
reality. He has done that many, many times, not only two times. You
will find out the existence of the so-called Etheric Double. You have
to know this Etheric Double. You have it, of course, but unless you
make use of it how will you know that it is there? ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
The mystic poet Kabhir writes: “I laugh when I hear that the
fish  in  the  water  is  thirsty.”  His  point  being  is  that  fish  are
constantly in the water so how can they be thirsty. In a similar
way our planet and its inhabitants float in a sea of abundant energy
that surrounds and imbues the planet and our bodies. So accessing
this abundant energy supply is not a matter of locality because it
exists  everywhere.  And  yet  like  the  fish,  humankind  remains
thirsty for energy.
This energy exists in a vast range of more and more refined
vibratory patterns. At the lower end of the scale are the radiations
from the sun, at the higher end of the scale are the many so-called
cosmic rays, some of which appear and disappear everywhere in
space as scientist are now discovering. This universal, inexhaustible
energy has been known by many names. Names such as Prana,
Reiki, Chi, Qigong, Orgone, Vril, Life Force, Lumeniferous Aether,
and many other names have been given for this energy. We simply
call it Etheric Vitality.
As we said, the Esoteric Teachings suggest a path within our
multilayer  reality  in  the  Worlds  of  Existence.  However,  the
Esoteric Practices are like a vehicle we use to move on this path.
And  the  energy,  the  Etheric  Vitality  is  like  the  fuel  we  use  to
power our vehicle along our path. The real power of the teachings
is not in just knowing them but it is revealed when we put them
into practice and live them. But when we practice we should not
do it sub-consciously as habit. We should make every effort to do
it consciously with focused attention but without any tension. We
initially practice with the knowledge of what we are doing and the
purpose of it. Then, in time, we learn to practice Self–Consciously;
which means, knowing who we are as the Self and what we are
doing in our practice. But what exactly are we practicing with in
these exercises? What are the means we are using in our practice?
In any practice, there are three components. The first one is
the practitioner. The second is the practice itself. The third is the
means  the  practitioner  uses  in  the  practice.  This  means  is  the

Mind. Consider this point carefully. The Mind is not our material
brain.  The  mind  is  not  our  thoughts.  Actually,  we  shape  and
formulate  our  thoughts  (and  emotions)  from  the  Mind  Super-
Substance. All the Worlds of Existence and everything in them is
Mind manifested at different rates of vibration.
The Noetical Universes and their Etheric Doubles are Mind in
a specific range of frequencies. The Psychical Universes and their
Etheric Doubles are Mind at lower frequencies of vibrations. The
Material Universe is Mind at its lowest rates of vibration. Matter
is Mind that has been solidified. It is the frequencies at which the
Mind vibrates that make things seem solid, liquid or gaseous to us.
Scientists tell us that what we call solid matter is mostly space and
very little matter. An atom of any kind of matter consists of a
nucleus with electrons orbiting around it at a certain speed like our
planets orbit around our sun. And it is not a coincidence that atoms
of matter behave in the same way that solar systems do.
To  give  this  some  meaning  consider  this:  If  we  were  to
compare  the  size  of  one  atom  of  solid  matter  to  a  large  sports
arena, then the atom’s nucleus would be equivalent to a speck of
dust at the center of the sports arena. The atom’s electron would
be the size of a fly orbiting around the outside of the arena. Just
imagine all that “empty” space in the arena. All solids, liquids or
gases in the material universe are composed of atoms, which are
about 99 percent space one percent actual matter. It is the same
with a Solar System with one percent solid matter (sun, planets
and moons) and 99 percent so-called empty space. Therefore, what
we consider solid matter is not really all that solid. It only seems
solid to us because our material bodies vibrate at the same rate of
vibration with the matter that composes our material universe.
While we are living in a material body, the material universe
seems concrete to us. From this vantage point, the psychical and
Noetical  universes  seem  abstract  and  insubstantial.  Yet,  during
Exosomatosis or after the death of our material body when we pass
over, then the psychical substance will feel solid to us and solid
matter will seem insubstantial to us. For example, once we are free
from  the  material  body  and  our  awareness  is  centered  in  the

Psycho-Noetical Body; then our hand can pass right through solid
material objects. Yet, other psychical substance will seem solid to
our hand. This is because our Psychical Body vibrates in the same
range of vibrations as psychical substance does. The same is true
with the Noetical Body and the Noetical substance composing the
Noetical Worlds.
Can  a  master  who  has  left  his  material  body  and  has
composed himself in his Psycho-Noetical Body ever move material
objects? Yes if he knows the way of lowering his vibration back
down to the point of materializing a hand or a complete body in
the material world. There are many, many accounts of Daskalos
and other masters doing this, but only to help people in times of
need. The most advanced masters will not show such phenomena
just to impress people.
Every  particle  of  material  substance,  from  the  minutest
particle to the largest planet, sun or galaxy has a field of energy in
and around it called the Etheric Double. Every form of life from a
single cell amoeba to the largest most complex living organism has
its luminous Etheric Double. Every atom of every form of life is
built and maintained in the perfect mold of the Etheric Double.
Likewise,  our  Psychical  and  Noetical  Bodies  have  their
incorruptible Etheric Doubles too. As our material body is the sum
total  of  all  its  atoms;  so  too  the  body’s  Etheric  Double  is
composed of all its etheric atoms. What clairvoyants refer to, as
the human Aura is the light radiations emanating from the Etheric
Double.
The Etheric Double of our material body contains centers of
Etheric  Vitality.  In  the  East,  these  centers  of  energy  are  called
Chakras. Currents of Etheric Vitality also run through the Etheric
Double and distribute needed energy to the material body. Etheric
Vitality  is  a  life  force,  which  can  either  be  expanded  or
concentrated. Living bodily forms cannot exist without an Etheric
Double.
Rudolf Steiner referred to the Etheric Double as the Etheric
Organization  and  spoke  of  how  to  draw  on  it  with  conscious
breathing. In the ancient Aramaic language, which was in use about

1000 years before and after Christ, the Etheric Double was called
the Tzool-mah. And in the Lord’s Prayer Christ referred to the
Etheric Vitality as “Our Daily Bread,” our daily supply of energy.
All the so-called energy work techniques and energy based healing
techniques draw on Etheric Vitality in varying degrees. It does not
make any difference what you call it, Etheric Vitality exists and we
can access it consciously and use it for our own well-being and to
help others.
Mystics, sages, and healers in India, China and elsewhere have
for  millennia  been  describing  and  using  the  Etheric  Vitality,  but
what  about  western  man?  The  ancients  described  four  prime
elements of matter: Earth, Air, Fire and Water. In the west it was
Plato, who first spoke about the existence of a fifth element he
called aether. In his Greek language, the Fifth Element was”pempte
ousia,” which means fifth substance. Later this became the Latin
word, “Quinta Essential,” which means fifth essence. This has now
become  the  English  word  quintessence.  The  definition  of
quintessence is: the purest example of something. Certainly, the
Etheric counterpart of matter qualifies as the purest example of
matter.  Because  the  etheric  counterpart  of  solid  mater  vibrates
within the range of the third dimension and thus is part of the
material  universe.  Ether  is  invisible  like  the  air  but  like  air  its
presence can be detected.
We as researchers of truth value the work of science. Both the
scientist and the mystic are researching the same reality but from
different approaches. So what does Orthodox Science say about
this  fifth  element?  English  physicist,  Sir  Isaac  Newton  (1642-
1727), considered one of the greatest scientists in history, cited
this all-pervading Ether of absolute space in the context of physical
laws. Then in 1803 the English scientific genius and serious techie
of the day, Thomas Young, was the first to demonstrate that light
traveled in waves, through some unexplained medium. Again, the
word Aether, Luminiferous Aether (light bearing ether), was used
to label this mysterious medium.
All this scientific theory about Ether initiated a race led by the
top brainpower to identify and measure the medium they called

Ether. So up until 1887 scientists believed in the existence of this
yet unexplained Ether. But in 1887 when Albert Michelson and
Edward Morley set out to scientifically prove it, they were not
able to quantify this ether with the rudimentary instruments of the
day  and  so  Orthodox  Science  dropped  the  idea.  Later  notable
scientists like Nicola Tesla and Albert Einstein realized that the so-
called empty space in the universe was not really empty. And they
correctly theorized there was an electro-magnetic mediumthat filled
the  atmosphere  of  earth  and  outer  space,  which  carried
electromagnetic  waves.  This  is  the  all-pervading  Ether.
Fortunately, other visionary scientific researchers have carried on
in this area and perhaps are about to demonstrate how to tap this
all-pervading Ether, which they arenow calling Zero Point Energy:
the free energy of the Quantum Vacuum.
But for a researcher of truth, Etheric Vitality is the means
known and used in the Esoteric Practices. With training and just a
little time anyone who is interested can develop their awareness of
and conscious use of three of the states or natures of this ether.
There are actually seven different characteristics of the ether, the
lower three of which can be used by everyone. The other four are
only  useable  by  advanced  mystics.  Immediately,  once  we  start
consciously using the Etheric Vitality in its three lower states we
will not need a scientist or anyone to prove its existence to us. We
will know with certainty, because we can use it directly.
Our Psychical Body and our Noetical Body also have their
own Etheric Doubles. The seven different states or properties of
the  Etheric  Vitality  carry  out  different  functions  in  the  Etheric
Doubles of each of our three bodies. We will not speak about the
higher three states of the etheric at this time. But we can speak
about four of its states: the Kinetic, the Imprinting, the Aesthetic
(sometimes  called  the  Sensate)  and  the  Creative.  These  four
distinguishable  states  are  within  every  etheric  atom  of  all
substance.  The  first  three  we  already  use,  but  we  use  them
subconsciously  without  know  it.  Daskalos  declared  and
demonstrated  that  a  person  who  can  consciously  use  all  seven
states of the Etheric Vitality: “Matter will be a toy in their hands.

They will know what is materialization and dematerialization.” His
mastery over all the various states of ether allowed him to facilitate
healings  that  required  dematerializing  cancerous  tumors  and
materializing new healthy tissues or nerves.
Just working with the Kinetic, Aesthetic and Imprinting Ether
brings forward great powers and abilities that are latent within us
all. In India, they call these powers Sidhis. All the common so-
called psychic abilities are really etheric abilities, which are made
possible by these three states of Etheric Vitality. Real psychical
powers are much greater than telepathy, telekinesis, psychometry,
clairvoyance  and  clairaudience,  which  are  phenomena  associated
with the etheric. And mastery of three lower states of the Etheric,
in conjunction with purifying our personality, prepares us to be
entrusted  with  the  Creative  Ether. After  reaching  high  levels  of
Self-Consciousness, the serious researcher is shown how to use the
Creative Ether. This is not something that can really be explained
in written or spoken words. It needs training and direct experience.

Creative Ether
The Creative Ether, is the most important one and is currently
only under the authority and control of the Holy Spirit. It is used
for the creation of living matter. The work of the Creative Etheric
is done without it being necessary for the ordinary person to have
knowledge of it. The renewal of the cells and healing of the wounds
for  our  material  body  is  evidence  of  its  existence.  This  ether
constructs, maintains life, multiplies and dissolves atoms and cells
of gross matter. Through this work it constructs and maintains all
the  organs  of  the  gross  material  body.  Through  the  practices,  a
Researcher of Truth can become aware of, and coordinate with, the
conscious work that the Holy Spirit does in their body. This is
done mostly through the sensate ether, and through various centers
of energy (Chakras) corresponding to the body’s various organs.
In the distant past man did use and misuse the Creative Ether,
and  we  can  read  about  that  in  the  Bible  and  other  ancient
scriptures,  but  that  ability  has  mostly  been  lost.  Precious  few
today have reached that stage where the Holy Spirit has entrusted
them with the use of the Creative Ether. In the future, people will
again be able to co-create with this life giving vitality. Yet, it is
possible (not easy) to use it today and advanced members of the
Researchers of Truth have reached this level. One day you may
choose to become a psychotherapist or Noetic therapist and with
pure  and  sincere  work,  you  will  be  given  the  right  to  use  the
creative ether. However, the word psychotherapist is really not
right, because it comes from the word psyche which means the
Soul.  And  the  word  therapy  is  a  treatment  for  healing.  So
technically it is an incorrect word because the Soul of everyone is
pure and incorruptible and not in need of any therapeutic treatment
for healing. This means there are no misguided, lost or evil Souls;
all Souls are forever free and never bound. But since everyone is
using this term psychotherapy to mean the treatment of mental or
emotional disorders, we continue to use that term. To be a good
psychotherapist is to be a co-worker with the Holy Spirit and be
entrusted with the creative ether. During sleep or during an out of

body  experience,  the  kinetic,  aesthetic  and  imprinting  ether
transfers with the self-awareness to the Psychical Body. But the
creative ether stays with the material body. If the Creative Ether is
removed from a material body, that body immediately dies. Such is
the importance of the Creative Ether.

Kinetic Ether
The Kinetic Ether within the Etheric Double of the material
body has a very complicated and diverse role. The Kinetic Ether
begins to function in and around the embryo as it develops in the
womb. The Kinetic Ether facilitates movement within the body
and the movement of the material body itself. Kinetic is from the
Greek word kinesis, which means motion. When we start to move
our  material  body,  currents  of  Etheric  Energy  race  through  our
nervous system like electricity through wires and coordinate the
contractions  of  all  the  right  muscles  to  accomplish  the  exact
movement  needed.  Have  you  ever  thought  exactly  how  you
makeyour body move? After you have the thought to get up and
stand, what happens next to make your body move?
We  are  constantly  using  the  Kinetic  Ether  subconsciously
when we move and do anything. Its work in the material body
differs  from  organ  to  organ.  It  governs  the  autonomic  functions
such as the pulse of the heart, breathing, metabolism etc... as well
as the conscious functions such as walking, talking, eye movement,
etc... For something to be living in the material world it must have
movement and the Kinetic Ether enables all movement.
Skilled artists and musicians develop a fine degree of control
over their hands and fingers through the subconscious use of this
Kinetic  Ether.  As  they  practice  they  gain  greater  and  greater
mastery over the muscles in their hands, but without knowing it
they are using the kinetic property of their Etheric Double to do
this. Developing our control and mastery of the Etheric Double
also brings forward latent non-physical powers within us all, such
as  telepathy.  It  is  also  possible  with  training  to  separate  some
Etheric Vitality from our Etheric Double and consciously send it
over great distances to those who need our help in the phenomenon
known as Distant Healing. Healers and psychotherapist do this
either consciously or subconsciously. This transference is possible
because  of  the  Kinetic  property  of  Etheric  Vitality.  The
Researchers of Truth teach the method for distance healing.
The conscious or Sub Conscious projection of any Elemental,

takes place via the kinetic property of ether. The Kinetic property
plays a great and very active role in our material body. Yet, in our
Psychical Body the Kinetic Ether is not so active. The material
world is a world of time and space. During our existence on earth,
we physically need to move from one location to another. In the
Psychical Worlds, the condition of space as we know it on earth is
absent. There, space is replaced by the conditional sense of place.
Changing from one circumstantial location to another within the
Psychical Worlds occurs by coordination, attunement and At-One-
Ment. A simple comparison would be something like tuning a radio
in to different stations. You do not need to move the radio itself
but  simply  set  the  radio  to  the  different  frequency  of  another
channel and you will immediately hear a different radio broadcast.
Within the Psychical planes, we create the sense of moving
from place to place. We can do all those movements we know on
earth such as walking, running and still others such as flying but
these are conditional experiences, and we are not really traveling
distances in space.

Imprinting Ether
Imprinting Ether enables us to create thoughts from the Mind.
This ether is used to imprint the Noetical images on the etheric
brain and all our experiences on every cell of the body. When we
visualize we are utilizing the Imprinting Ether in shaping Psycho-
Noetical substance into forms: thought and emotion forms. This is
how we create the Elementals. The Imprinting Ether allows us to
not only create these images but store them in our mind and recall
them as well. Mostly we create and store images subconsciously.
Developing  our  abilities  to  create  clear,  vivid  and  stable  images
using  the  Imprinting  Ether  is  a  necessary  skill  for  a  seeker  to
develop.  It  enables  not  only  healing  work  but  is  helpful  in
manifesting a good and satisfying life for our family and ourselves.
And  in  the  practice  of  introspection,  we  are  also  using  the
Imprinting Ether as we see and study the conditions of our life.
Of course we will not succeed in our effort instantaneously.
This is something that has to be learned. And through our mistakes
and errors we gain experience. It is not expected that you will make
proper use of the imprinting ether immediately in creating Noetical
images. At first maybe you will feel in doubt, you won’t be able to
visualize  exactly  what  you  want.  Other  thoughts  will  come  to
distract you. Now you must keep on insisting to visualize clear
and steady images until you succeed.

Aesthetic Ether
Aesthetic Ether is the feeling giving ether. It enables physical
sensations. It allows us to feel various parts of our material body,
the toes, the knees, and anywhere in the body. The role of this
Ether  is  much  greater  in  the  Psychical  Body  than  it  is  in  the
material  body.  Our  happy,  sad,  angry  and  other  feelings  are
psychical  vibrations.  These  are  felt  and  experiencedvia  the
Aesthetic Ether of the Etheric Double of the Psychical Body. Our
ability to sense sorrow or happiness in others is also due to the
Aesthetic Ether of the Etheric Double of our Psychical Body.
In the material body, Aesthetic Ether is giving us the sense of
pleasure and pain. The experience of pain is associated with a lack
of  Kinetic  Ether  and  the  intensified  activity  and  the  buildup  of
Aesthetic Ether, the purpose of which is to bring our attention to
the affected area. Anesthesia means without feeling. An anesthetic
is an agent such as a drug that produces an insensibility to pain.
Daskalos however, did not need anesthetics to remove pain.
In  circle  meetings,  Daskalos  has,  on  certain  occasions,
demonstrated how to remove the Aesthetic Ether from his or other
peoples’ Etheric Double. For the demonstration, he would rub his
hands  briefly  over  an  arm  as  he  removed  the  feeling  giving
Aesthetic Ether. Then he would push a large hatpin through his or
someone’s forearm and there would be no pain. However, this skill
of  his  was  dedicated  to  remove  the  pain  from  others,  as  he
performed cures to their material bodies.
Once  after  a  Stoa  Lesson,  an  elderly  lady  from  Europe
approached Daskalos for help. She had a lot of pain in her left arm.
She could not straighten her arm and held it curled up to her chest.
Even small arm movements gave her a great deal of pain. Daskalos
touched her arm gently and immediately proclaimed it was due to
nerve damage. He said that he would have to create new nerves and
reached to straighten her arm to begin his work. But she pulled
away guarding her damaged arm and protested that it was much too
painful and it could not be straightened. Daskalos comforted her
and gently said that he would make it so she would not feel any

pain.
I was standing on Daskalos right side and could tell by the
lady’s face that she did not believe this was possible. He rubbed
her arm with his slightly cupped hand and proceeded to straighten
the arm, but as he started sheagain reacted and pulled back fearing
the pain she knew would come. Daskalos insisted she would not
feel  pain  as  he  had  already  removed  the  Aesthetic  Ether  and
extended her arm anyway. I watched closely as the lady tilted her
head  back  contorting  her  face  bracing  for  the  pain,  which  never
came.  As  her  arm  extended  the  look  on  her  face  changed  to
astonishment. She watched in disbelief as Daskalos deftly worked
on her arm for a few minutes rebuilding the damaged nerves.
“There” Daskalos announced as he bent and straightened her
arm several times demonstrating the success of his work. The lady
seemed unsure at first as she tried to adjust to the new condition of
her arm. The healing had happened so fast it was difficult for her
mind  to  grasp.  She  walked  away  looking  at  her  arm  in
bewilderment as she moved it.
Daskalos employed many states of Ether in order to carry out
this healing. For the diagnosis, he used the Aesthetic Ether to sense
and feel what was going on within the arm. Using the Imprinting
Ether, he was able to see the actual conditions of the nerves. He
was able to remove the Aesthetic Ether from the arm and thus
eliminating her pain. For the actual healing, he used the Kinetic,
Aesthetic, Imprinting and the Creative Ether together. Of course,
Daskalos was co-creating with the Holy Spirit in this and he would
never claim that he personally did the healing. Nevertheless, his co-
operation was skillful and Self-Conscious. He did not just blindly
flood the person with Etheric Vitality and pray to the Holy Spirit
for a healing. He also knew exactly what he was doing. He used the
various properties of the Ether in his work as a surgeon would use
surgical  instruments.  He  continuously  observed  his  work  and
maintained  Self-Conscious  control  as  he  performed  it.  He  also
infused  this  healing  Elemental  with  his  ardent  prayer  that  the
damage be corrected and the arm restored to perfection.

THE PRACTICE OVERVIEW
In  our  meditation  practices  we  work  with  the  three  lower
natures of the Etheric Vitality. Engaging in the Esoteric Practices
automatically  starts  to  develop  our  ability  to  use  the  various
properties  of  the  Etheric  Vitality.  These  are  the  practices  of
Observation,  Visualization,  Meditation,  Introspection,  and
Concentration.
We have divided the work of the Etheric Double into the four
states according to their function to better describe the work of the
Etheric Vitality. We are not dividing the actual Etheric Double or
the Etheric Vitality. All the states are contained in each and every
etheric atom. And we need to begin work, not only to understand
them  theoretically  but  also  practically  by  using  them.  Giving  a
cello to an untrained person, it would be unreasonable to expect
them to immediately start playing like the master cellist, Yo Yo
Ma. But if we give an untrained person a cello and training, that
person may practice until he can play as well as Yo Yo Ma. Once a
person learns the skill of playing a cello masterfully or gains the
skill of using the ethers masterfully, no one can take his or her
skills away.
If we truly and deeply enter in to the meaning of one of the
lesson or an exercise, it is like we gain a year or two of study all at
once. For this to happen we must not only read these teachings but
also study and practice them well. And for the meditations and
exercises we not only need to practice them but also observe the
effects they have on us. In time by practicing with the Kinetic and
Aesthetic Ether you will be able to notice the circulation of your
blood and blood cells. You will be able to feel every organ and you
will  know  what  is  going  on  in  them.  But,  it  needs  dedicated
practice. Practice to be the master of your human body.
Developing the Kinetic and the Aesthetic Ether we are at the
same time causing the development of our Psychical Body. Using
the Imprinting Ether in our Etheric Double we can come in contact
with and at the same time develop our Noetical Body. Our three
bodies are connected by their Etheric Doubles and are influencing

each other. By learning the art of Visualization you are using the
Mind as the Imprinting Ether. In the course of time you’ll gain a
new power in Visualization called clairvoyance.
At  the  beginning  we  use  the  Imprinting  Ether  visualizing
colors  and  shapes.  Colors  are  vibrations  and  the  vibrations  of
certain colors affect the centers of energy (Charkas). We can start
by flooding our Etheric Doubles with certain basic colors. Then we
can use disks of light moving them around and passing through
certain centers. Later, we use colored spheres, moving and passing
through the centers.
A warning: On and in the Etheric Double there are centers of
energy, which function as whirlpools of Etheric Vitality. Despite
what  you  may  have  read  elsewhere  it  is  very  dangerous  to
concentrate  directly  on  these  Chakras  or  on  the  material  organs
associated with these centers. We can safely concentrate on our
Solar Plexus. But never concentrate directly on the material heart or
any other organ. That constricts the blood vessels and can cause
serious  problems  and  physical  damage  to  the  organs  and  your
nervous system.
As  we  proceed;  along  with  the  teaching  we  need  to  do
exercises on and in the Etheric Double of the material body to get
the skill in using the ethers consciously. Once we are capable of
consciously using the Kinetic, Aesthetic and Imprinting properties
of  the  ether,  we  will  be  in  a  much  better  position  to  facilitate
healings. More and more information will be given in future lessons
about this for those who progress in this branch of study.

THE PRACTICE: WORKING WITH ETHERIC
VITALIITY
Relax completely.
Start from the feet. Breathe deeply and comfortably.
Inhaling as your heart makes four beats.
And then immediately exhaling again for four beats of the heart.
Inhale... Exhale... Do it consciously, rhythmically and comfortably.
Inhale... Exhale... Inhale... Exhale...
Now feel the toes of your feet. It is the Aesthetic Ether that gives you
this feeling.
You can move them a bit to feel your toes. That is the Kinetic Ether
moving the toes.
Now feel the bottom of your feet all the way up to you knees.
Now move your sense of feeling from the knees all the way back
down to the feet
Now again feel your knees only your knees. Your attention should
move via the Kinetic Ether up to the knees.
And at the same time using the Aesthetic Ether, to feel that you are
going up from the whole foot upwards to the knees.
Now, feel from the knees, up through the thighs to the place you are
sitting on the chair.
Feel just where you are sitting. You didn’t feel that when you were
feeling the feet and knees. Now you can feel it.
Now feel the legs from the place you are sitting all the way down
into the feet. Feel them. They are yours. You can be in them and feel
them using the Aesthetic Ether. When you can use the Aesthetic
Ether in this way fully you will be able to remove pain from your
body.
Now, feel the area of the solar plexus. Feel being in the solar
plexus. Move it. You can move from inside the solar plexus up and
feel the sternum. Now, you are feeling the whole abdomen. The
organs are not an obstacle to the movement of Kinetic Ether.

You may think that you are feeling and moving in your body but you
are actually feeling and moving in the Etheric Double, which is in
and slightly outside of your material body.
Now, take deep breaths and feel the chest area. Feel the chest from
the thyroid to the toes. You feel the shoulders. Feel the hands. Move
the fingers. You can feel inside your body from the thyroid to the
toes of your feet.
It is easier for you to concentrate in the chest, because, there are
more active centers of energy in the chest.
Breathe deeply and feel in the abdomen and the chest. Now you feel
from your toes, feet, legs, solar plexus, the chest, to the thyroid and
now up in to the head. It is not difficult to feel in the head.
Now you are using the Aesthetic Ether to feel you are in the whole
body: in the head, in the neck, inside the chest, you feel the shoulder
blades behind your back, your hands you feel the muscles, you feel
the fingers, now you feel the stomach and the belly, you feel the
place you are sitting on the chair, you feel the thighs.
Breathe deeply and now with the Imprinting Ether visualizes and
see the Etheric Vitality entering in with every breath.
As you are breathing the Etheric Vitality the light is entering your
body. The vitality remains and the air goes out. Breathing you load
your Etheric Double with this vitality See it as snow-white light as it
enters your lungs and expands everywhere in your material body.
Now, see your material body radiating in pure snow-white light.
Love your body. It is yours, it is given to you to live in and express
yourself. So, breathe deeply and feel that you are in your material
body and – love it.
Breathe deeply and say to yourself: “I want perfect health to be in
this material body of mine.” Feel being in your material body, in
your Etheric Double, and have the wish for this material body to
enjoy perfect health.

Chapter Thirteen
THE PULSE OF LIFE
 
The heart’s purpose is the pulse, and the rhythmic beats of the
heart is the kinetic ether. We have inhalation and exhalation, blood
circulation, the movement of the etheric fluids and the Psycho-
Noetical centers, all tasks and the performance is the kinetic ether.
Primarily the creative ether, a nature of the Etheric Double, is
under the control of the Christ Logos as well as the Holy Spirit.
They are the life givers. The creative ether builds, sustains and
maintains, but it can’t be done without the use of the kinetic ether.
Can we have life without movement? Can you perceive life, the
phenomena of life, without movement?For a phenomenon of life to
exist there must be movement of blood and of etheric fluids.
Movement of some parts of the body isn’t entirely necessary but the
pulse of the heart is necessary.
 
What is metabolism other than movement? It is a form of vibration
and movement. Therefore, movement is necessary in order to have
the phenomena of life, not Life. Life itself is not in need of a
condition. But the phenomenon of life, life within a material body by
necessity requires movement, the kinetic ether. We will get to know
the nature of this ether through our exercises and in time we will
become masters of this ability. You must see what life is in a
material body. What is Everlasting Life is something else and it
needs much thought, meditation, concentration and raising the self-
consciousness to very, very, very high levels to understand it. But
what is life in a Human Form, in a human being, should be known
by everybody, so that he will be able to face his or her problems
satisfactorily ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
We know that we are alive. We are living in a material body –
no one questions this. The feeling that we are living is common to
all. Yet the exact way each of us is living is different from everyone
else. And it is the way we are living that determines the quality of
our life as a personality. So we have two different things, Life and
living.
We know from studying various scriptures and teachings that
there is something called Eternal Life – the Everlasting Life. God is
Life everlasting in eternity. Everlasting Life means Life without a
beginning or an end. The Everlasting Life in Its Self-Sufficiency
lacks nothing and nothing can be added to it. This Everlasting Life
is  God’s  immortal  nature  and  it  is  our  own  immortal  nature  as
Spirit-Beings.  As  Spirit-Beings  we  are  Everlasting  Life.
Unfortunately, the truth and magnificence of the Everlasting Life as
God’s nature or as our own Divine Nature is incomprehensible to
our human nature – our personality.
We can also know from observing things in the material world
that  the  Eternal  Life  is  expressing  Its  Life  as  the  various  living
forms on Earth and in the worlds beyond. We can study the life of
all of the forms of life, from the smallest microbe to the largest
Whale, and understand something of the Circle of Possibilities for
that  life  form.  Within  each  and  every  form  of  life  we  can  see
something of the Total Love, Wisdom and Power in expression. All
life  forms  are  phenomenal  expressions  of  the  Life  –  they  are
temporary embodiments of the Everlasting Life.
Absolute  Beingness,  God,  expresses  Its  Life  within  Itself
manifesting Its Life as all the phenomena of life we see around us.
According to the Will-Pleasure of God, the manifestation of Life
initiates as vibration and this vibration is giving all the living forms
a Pulse of Life. And by the term, Pulse of Life we mean the cause
which gives us tremor, vibration in all the different forms of life all
around us. The main characteristic of all these forms of life is this
Pulse  of  Life  –  the  balanced  movement  towards  opposite
directions.  For  example:  this  movement  in  opposites  is  the

contraction and expansion of a heart as it pumps the blood or the
inhalation and exhalation of lungs as they breathe. But always there
is a well-balanced movement between opposite positions.
Via the Kinetic Ether, this Pulse of Life sparks nodes on our
material heart, transferring ethereal/electrical impulses to the heart
muscles, causing it to beat and pump blood. This Pulse of Life is
easily seen in the breathing as well as in the heart beats of animals
and humans. And we see the Pulse of Life causing the rising and
falling in the sap and it is in the budding of plants. For those who
have seen an Archangel, they will have noticed the Archangels too
have pulsation radiations in their form.
The bodies of humans and the bodies of animals are similar in
their construction. Both have skin, flesh, bones, blood, nerves and
a skull with brains. So there is not much difference between the
animals and humans in this regard. However, Man can use the mind
directly, which is something animals cannot do. Animals only have
the  Mind  as  their  instinct.  All  plants  and  animals  are  the
materialization  of  the  Pulse  of  Life  as  expressions  of  the
Archangelic  orders.  We  can  see  the  wisdom  of  God  and  these
Archangelic creators in the flowers, the vegetables and animal life.
And yet, unlike humans, no animal can use the mind and change its
way of life because a human being is a Spirit-Soul, a god and an
animal is not. We cannot exist as a personality without a Soul-Self
any more than our body can live without a heart. And our heart
cannot live without the Pulse of Life in it. The Pulse of Life is an
expression of our Divine Nature – the Spirit-Soul-Self.
Now, it is most important to begin to distinguish our Divine
Nature as Everlasting Life, from the temporary life of our material
body in which we are living. We can say Everlasting Life IS. And
we can say that this Life exists as the phenomena of life on Earth,
in the Psychical Worlds and in the Noetical Worlds. The Material
World, the Psychical Worlds and the Noetical Worlds are Worlds
of Existence inhabited with living forms. For anything to exist it
must have a form. For human beings to exist in these worlds they
must  have  a  form  which  corresponds  to  these  worlds.  But
Everlasting Life is of Beingness and does not require a bodily form.

But the phenomena of life only belong to the changing Worlds of
Existence and definitelyneed a form to exist. Contemplate this.
Your material body is yours to live in and express your life
through, but you are not your body. Your emotions, the emotions
and  desires  you  express  are  yours  but  they  are  not  you.
Yourconscious  thoughts  and  the  ones  that  rise  from  your  sub-
consciousness  are  your  thoughts,  but  they  are  not  you.  Detach
from the misidentification of your Self with the thoughts, emotions
and  behaviors  you  express.  Seek  the  real  Self  behind  these
expressions. Go deep in your meditation and enter into a state of
dynamic stillness. There you can contact the Pulse of Life andcan
easily feel it in the beating of your heart. You can sense it in the
blood  coursing  through  your  veins.  You  can  notice  it  in  the
energetic pulsations at the tips of your fingers. It is Life.
Now we know we are not our material body, we are not our
emotions  or  our  thoughts.  These  constitute  our  present-day
personality only. So what is the relationship between our Divine
Nature  as  Everlasting  Life  and  our  human  nature  as  an  ever-
changing  personality?  Our  Divine  Nature  is  perfect,  whole,
changeless, always free and never bound. Yet, our human nature as
a  personality  expresses  a  conglomeration  of  conflicting  notions,
concepts, desires and feelings. All these manifest in the personality
as good or bad predispositions, talents, strengths and weaknesses.
Our Divine Nature is the core or backbone on which we build our
personality. And the personality we build can have a vast range in
purity.
Collectively our personality is composed of the Elementals
created or revitalized. But our personality is not our Real Self. And
to  know  that  for  sure,  we  must  analyze  that  time  and  place
creation called our personality to distinguish it from the real nature
of our Spirit-Soul Self. Remember, the Elementals composing our
personality are living. They are not Life; however, they are living
in  the  Worlds  of  Existence.  Yet  their  existence  cannot  extend
beyond  these  worlds.  The  Elementals  are  not  a  being  but  they
express a living existence with purpose and power. The negative
Elementals torture our personality and the personalities of those

around  us  and  degrade  the  life  we  are  living.  The  benevolent
Elementals are like strong allies to our own life and those around
us. Our Elementals have a kind of power or force in them. But it is
we who have given them that power and we can take it back any
time  we  like  –  if  we  know  the  way.  This  means  that  we  feed
energy into the Elementals from our portion of the Pulse of Life.
The Pulse of Life is our  inner  nature  but  it  is  not  the  inherent
nature of an Elemental. This means we can purify and withdraw
the energyfrom the Elementals.
Now in concentrating on the chest, but not directly on the
material heart, you can feel the Pulse of Life. The Pulse of Life is in
the material heart but the pulse is not the material. Try to feel the
Pulse of Life. This Pulse of Life is working perfectly to make your
heart beat, your blood flow, and give life to your material body. It
is clear that as a personality we do not control this Pulse of Life.
Who controls it and who decides when it will withdraw from our
material body and end the beating of our heart? Have you ever
asked  yourself  who  or  what  is  creating  this  Pulse  of  Life  that
makes my physical heart beat? This question can initiate one of the
first approaches to God.
At the very core of our human existence as a personality is
the untainted luminous ray of our Spirit-Soul, steadily pulsatinglife
into  our  bodies.  Find  this  reality  behind  your  temporary
personality self. Find this Pulse of Life in your personality self,
and trace it until you find the Pulse of Life as your real nature – the
Spirit-Soul Self. This is the aim of a Researchers of Truth. And to
reach that aim we must start somewhere and that somewhere is
exactly the current condition we find ourselves in. This means we
start with analyzing our personality self in order to find in it, our
Real Self, which is the Pulse of Life. What do we find? We find
that the Pulse of Life in us has been covered over by the creation of
a temporary time and space self that we call our personality and
we need to uncover it.

THE PRATICE: OVERVIEW
With observation we can easily see that the manifestation of
the Pulse of Life is not the same in all the different forms of life,
yet there is only one Pulse of Life. If there was no Pulse of Life in
your personality it would not exits. Notice that everything takes
place within life. Life exists everywhere, but the Pulse of Life is
exactly proportioned to the purpose of each form of life found in
the Worlds of Existence. So we search the different ways the Pulse
of Life is expressed in the different living forms.
The  main  characteristic  of  the  Pulse  of  Life  is  the  law  of
balance and order as expressions of the Divine Total Wisdom and
Power and Love. For the creation of living forms, the Pulse of Life
comes first as cause, and then produces the effect. The effect is the
various forms of life. In the Noetic State, the Pulse of Life is giving
us the archetypal Ideas, with the laws and causes that initiate and
govern all the living forms we see in the Worlds of Existence. From
these Archetypal Ideas and laws, the life forms start to be built up
in a steady determined way and are manifested by the Pulse of Life
as all the living forms we see around us. The Pulse of Life, as cause
and effect, is seen in each and every form of life while stillbeing
under the complete control of the laws of harmony, balance and
order.

THE PRACTICE: A PULSE OF LIFE MEDITATION
First Relax completely.
Feel you are in your material body, from your toes to your head.
See that you relax the material body completely.
Now and always, your heart is beating within your material body.
It started beating before your birth and it will continue beating until
the silver cord joining your other bodies with your material body is
broken. At one end of the silver cord is your material heart, and the
Pulse of life of that silver cord is making your heart beat.
Try to feel the pulse of Life in your body. You are living. Who are
you living in the material body? Your personality, yet having in it
the pulse of Life. You are the pulse of Life, and the pulse of Life is
your Selfhood. You have to study who you are as a human being,
living in your material body. In studying that you will be able to
concentrate your attention and observation on the other bodies too.
And, you will develop what we call the Self-Consciousness.
Concentrate on your heart area. Concentrate on the whole chest,
but not directly on the heart. Do not concentrate by force but by
feeling. Feel your heart and ask yourself: “Who is making my heat
work and beat? What is this pulse of life? It is faithfully pulsating. It
makes the blood circulate. Yet it is not under my control. Under
whose control is it?”
In every temple there is the Holy of holies. Make your heart the
Holy of the holies of God. In the Holy of holies, there is also the
altar. Make an altar in your heart. The Inextinguishable Light-Life
is burning on the altar.
Now, light another lamp of your personality’s love to God and to
all human beings around you. Don’t allow those flames to flicker.
Keep the flames steady and strong. It is a perfect light. Live with
these two flames of love on the altar of your heart.
The Holy Archangels are living in your heart. You are living too.

Your life is the pulse of Life.

Chapter Fourteen
THE VOICE OF AN ANGEL
 
Now, in the bodies, in the Etheric Doubles of the material, the
Psychical and the Noetical Bodies there is an archangel near the
Thrones [a Metathrone]. This is your Guardian Angel. Every
human being has a Guardian Angel. That is not your so-called
higher Self. He is an Archangel different from your Spirit-Soul. Out
of Love that Guardian Angel is egofied [unified] to you. When you
say that nobody can hear or see what you are doing – you are
mistaken. The Guardian Angel knows everything and, sometimes,
when you overdo it – he interferes. That is what you call the stings
of consciousness. Did you ever analyze what are the stings of
consciousness that are coming to us sometimes saying, “That’s
wrong? You shouldn’t have done it?” It is his voice.
 
Now, I will reveal much more. Do you know that you are in
dialogue with him all the time without understanding it? He is
egofied [unified] with you. You think that you are making this
conversation with yourself. Just notice. When you sit in meditation,
in silence, you listen to this dialogue. I ask you with whom are you
talking with? You think: “It is with myself.” It is not with yourself –
it is with your Guardian Angel that you are talking. That’s why I
say listen to your inner voice and consult that super intelligent
Archangel who loves you. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
In  our  lives  there  are  so  many  voices  competing  for  our
attention.  Externally  there  are  the  voices  from  our  culturewith
itslaws,  news,  marketing  and  social  statements.  There  are  the
voices of our families, friends and co-workers. Simultaneously, our
emotions, desires and habitual thoughts are also speaking to us. All
this goes on continuously every single day of our lives. At the
personality  level,  we  sometimes  succeed  and  sometimes  fail  by
selectively listening to or ignoring these voices.
Coexisting with this flood of voices inundating our awareness,
there  is  another  voice  within  us.  This  voice  however  is  often
drowned out by the other voices and is seldom noticed. This voice
is a true voice, one that will never mislead us, never forsake us, or
ever  stop  expressing  its  perfect  love  to  us.  This  voice  has
accompanied us from the moment of our humanization, through all
our incarnations, and will accompany us unto Theosis. Theosis is
ourabsolute unity with God at the end of our long journey through
many incarnations.
This voice is commonly known as our Guardian Angel. Our
Guardian Angel is from an Archangelic order very close to that of
human  beings.  One  of  these  innumerable Archangels,  out  of  his
great love joins with the Spirit-Soul of each of us to accompany
and guide us. No one is ever alone or unloved. The Guardian joins
with us in complete At-One-Ment, and yet he never loses his own
Archangelic nature. He is the perfect guide and flawless teacher.
We often seek externally for teachers, gurus and masters to help
awaken us and lead us spiritually. All the while, our ever-present
Guardian stands ready in his Super-Conscious capacity to serve in
this very way. Many have contemplated and wished to be close to
a  wise  master  who  could  help  them  as  they  faced  their  life’s
challenges. How long has our faithful guardian been waiting for us
to become aware of him and engage inconscious communion with
him? No earthly teacher could be closer or know better what you
need than your Guardian Archangel.
But be advised, none of the Archangels give petty advice, or

speak  of  insignificant  material  things.  So  we  must  always  use
reason to distinguish if we are hearing the “voice” of an Archangel
or  the  sound  of  our  own  Elementals  (pre-existing  thoughts  and
feelings coming from our own sub-consciousness). But really this
is not as difficult as it may sound, because communications from
an Archangel ring with authority, truth and love. Using the golden
key of Introspection, you will be able to know the difference for
sure.  Being  able  to  control  and  silence  your  own  thoughts  and
emotions makes it easier to distinguish the guardian’s voice. But if
you are not able to raise your consciousness higher than the level
of your mundane thoughts and emotions you cannot be so sure
you  are  not  mistaking  the  false,  mimicking  expressions  of  your
own egoism to be the voice of an Archangel.
Daskalos compared this near and dear relationship with our
Guardian Angel with an example we all have seen. Take two lit
candles  and  place  their  flames  together  and  they  appear  as  one
flame, pull them apart and you can see they are two flames. This
unity of flames is similar to our union with the Guardian Angel.
His unification with us was born, not out of his sacrifice, but out
of his great love for us. This unification continues unbroken from
the point of our humanization trough all our incarnations until we
return home in At-One-Ment with God. At which point we will no
longer need a guardian.
Unfortunately,  our  earthly  lives  capture  so  much  of  our
attention that we are unaware of his presence within us. So we
must quiet our emotions and still our thoughts enough to attune to
his communiqués. The voice of our Guardian Angel comes not in a
litany  of  words  but  as  complete,  universal  ideas,  which
communicate his messages very succinctly. When we look to our
Guardian Archangel for guidance and listen openly, he will reply.
And we can develop this dialogue and become increasingly aware
of his presence and wise guidance. Of course, the Archangels are
not  male  or  female,  but  the  term  “he”  is  used  as  a  convenient
pronoun.
Our Guardian Archangel is ready and willing to communicate
his wisdom to us. But our Guardian experiences a kind of sadness

when  we  go  badly  astray.  When  we  fall  to  the  temptations  of
gossiping,  anger,  hatred,  negativity,  blaming  others  and  being  a
victim, it is disturbing all of your Archangels and particularly your
Guardian  Angel.  Know  that  during  such  times,  it  is  like  the
Archangels are distancing from you and step back until you calm
down  and  they  can  approach  again.  On  the  other  hand,  they
experience joy when we cooperate with them. Christ said:”Joy to
your  Angels  in  heaven  for  one  who  repents.”  Repents  means
turning  one’s  heart,  mind  and  actions  away  from  illusionary
temptations and returning back to their Divine Nature.
Our Guardian is in constant communion with us. His work in
our  evolution  is  very  important.  His  voice  is  not  confused,
conflicted  or  complex.  His  voice  does  not  express  complicated
mental constructs or vague notions. Instead his voice expresses the
language of real Love. It may initially appear this voice is small or
weak compared to the other voices demanding our attention. In
reality, there is nothing weak or small about it. It is only weak to
our personality and that is due to the degree of our awareness.
Knowledge of the Guardian Archangel and other Archangels
that are working in our bodies must not remain as hypothetical.
This  knowledge  only  becomes  practical  by  our  own  direct
experiences  with  these  radiant  beings  of  light.  Individually  or
collectively, we cannot continue to let our material development
race  ahead  of  the  development  of  our  spiritual  awareness  and
understanding.  It  is  not  wise  and  it  definitely  is  not  without
consequence. These brothers of Spirit welcome our approach and
our conscious engagement in their great work.
It is written in the Bible that when God said:”let us create
man in our likeness and image.”It was at that moment, which is
eternal, the Spirit Beings destined to become human beingsproject a
singlerayto become humanized. At the same instant, a ray from an
Archangel of the highest orders, unifies with our ray of Spirit and
joins with us on our journeysthrough the incarnational cycles. Not
for  just  one  incarnation  but all of our incarnations we have the
same Guardian Archangel, loving and guiding us. So in this way we
again see a dual nature. Our own Being and the Being of the unified

Guardian Archangel, which has also become our Self because of its
unification. But at the same time this Archangel keeps his own
perfect purity. He never detaches from the oneness of God while
in unification with us. It happens this way because of the Will and
Pleasure of God. The Guardian is fully unified with yousolely out
of his unconditional love for you.
Everything concerning our humanization is in the Divine Plan
as  Archetypes  but  now  they  are  under  the  authority  of  our
Guardian.  The  Archangels  of  the  Elements  start  their  work,
building on the Archetype of the Human Idea. They are building on
these blueprint-like plans, which are held by our Guardian. Now at
one  point  in  Daskalos’  life  he  had  the  question:  Where  do  the
Archangels get this Human Form to work with on our behalf? And
an Archangel gave him the answer saying: “My love, you always
hide  it  in  you,  even  being  in  oneness  with  God.”What  the
Archangel  was  revealing  is  that  the  Human  Form  was  always
within us as a Spirit Being, and that we always had the nature to
become  humanized.  We  will  never  lose  our  Human  Form  even
when  we  return  back  to  our  Divine  Nature  and  the  incarnation
process stops completely. At which point we can reformulate our
Human Form and enter it again anytime we like. We can enter in it
at our pleasure and not as a karmic obligation.
Now  sometimes  when  your  personality  engages  in  wrong
behaviour  and  goes  too  far,  your  Guardian  will  interfere.  This
interference is his disapproval of your behaviour, not of you. It is
the so-called sting of consciousness, which is not a punishment but
a wakeup call. When this occurs we have to really think about it
and use Introspection to check ourselves to find our mistake. In
doing so you will find the truth and the cause of this trouble. But a
warning,  it  is  at  this  very  point  your  egoism  will  jump  in  and
justify wrong behaviour trying to excuse it and lay the blame at the
feet of other people. Your own egoism is much more dangerous
than you realize. So look sharp and be aware of this misleading
dynamic within you. On one side of thisduality we are trying to
study the personality’s self-awarenessto learn and know it. On the
other side, the egoism is hiding, excusing, covering and protecting

itself. With time and sincerity, you will discover you are not the
egoism and will be able to correct and master it thus avoiding so
much trouble and needless suffering.
The work of the Guardian Archangel is not in building and
maintaining our bodies. That is the work of the Archangels of the
Elements. The Guardian’s work is in caring for your personality.
The Guardian Archangel is tolerant and very patient with us. Our
Guardian Archangel is not only egofied (unified) with the Spirit-
Soul-Self, but also with our personality self. When you contact
your Guardian Archangel and if you are a clairvoyant you can see
him, but you’ll think you are looking at yourself in a mirror. Being
unified, with you he has even your face and takes your name. But
he absolutely does not have your weaknesses and illusions. One
part of him is unified with you while the other part stays fully in
his Archangelic Super Conscious state.
The  Guardian  acts  as  a  perfectly  clear  mirror,  reflecting
everything  about  us.  When  a  mirror  reflects  a  beautiful  floral
arrangement or a pile of rotting garbage it does not affect the mirror
in  the  least. And  this  is  how  it  works  with  our  Guardian.  He
reflects  our  good  and  bad  desires,  thoughts,  words  and  deeds
without being affected or influenced by what is reflected. And so
any crimes or faults of ours may be reflected in that mirror so that
we can see them and correct them. But we have to take notice of
that reflection.
And this reflection does not stop at the death of our material
body. When a person’s material body dies they cross over to the
Psychical planes of existence. That person then sees his good or
bad behaviors, his emotions and thoughts reflected very clearly in
the  mirror  of  his  own  Guardian  Archangel.  However  the
departedmay  not  see  the  Archangel  directly,  just  their  own
refection. People with harsh, negative emotions and thoughts are
terror stricken when they see an ugly monster in this mirror and
wonder what  is  this  monster  that  I  see? At  which  point  their
Guardian replies to the departed saying: “That reflection is your
refection not mine. I am the mirror; you are the monster, change so
you will reflect a better Self.” So our Guardian’s work is also to

reflect our thoughts, desires, words and actions back to us in such a
way  for  us  to  understand  them  better  and  make  the  necessary
corrections.
Unfortunately when we incarnate in the Worlds of Existence
we all undergo a kind of amnesia, lose sight of our Divine Nature,
and  become  identified  with  only  our  limited human  nature.
Partially  to  ease  the  pain  of  this  conditional  separation,  this
Guardian accompanies and guards us during our journey through
time,  space  and  place. And  he  eventually  helps  lead  us  to  the
recognition of our real Self and its source;awakening us from our
amnesia.
So  despite  our  feelings  of  separateness,  we  are  never
abandoned or un-cared for. We should not let the Elementals of
loneliness build within our personality to the point of eclipsing the
love and help of our brother Guardian. As the Guardian’s presence
in  our  life  begins  to  dawn  on  us,  we  realize  that  he  is  not  a
concoction from our own imagination. We understand that he is
not  some  distant  entity  apathetically  overseeing  our  life.  His
presence will reveal that the prime teaching he has come to give is
how to really love. He shows us how to help others by the way he
helps us. His help does not condemn, criticize, and blame us or
anyone else even when there are serious mistakes. His love and
help is unconditional, patient, kind, enduring, and non-interfering.
We will soon realize that his guidance and protection is not vague
or subjective, but quite practical and effective.
For  example,  there  was  a  serial  killer  who  was  preying  on
female real estate agents in America. His pattern was to set up an
appointment with an agent to see an empty house she had for sale.
Once inside he would rape the agent at gun point, take her to an
ATM to withdraw her money and then kill her. On one of these
attempts after he had raped the agent and was about to abduct her,
he made a small mistake. He exited the empty house first with the
terrified agent immediately behind him. At that very instant her
Guardian spoke loud and clear saying: “Step back in the house and
lock the door.” Without hesitation she did as instructedand was
saved in an instant. The killer had no choice but to flee. So you can

see how infinitely intelligent and utterly effective the Guardian’s
help is. And there are so many, many stories like this, perhaps you
have one yourself.
Of course the Guardian’s protection will not protect us from
a necessary life lesson, slated by the Lords of Karma. But he can
and does brilliantly come to our aid – especially when we cultivate
a conscious connection with him and consciously cooperate with
his  guidance.  All  of  us  have  experienced,  to  some  degree,
communications from our Guardian Angel but we do not always
understand   exactly   what   is   occurring.   Observation   and
Introspection  are  needed  to  accurately  distinguish  the  difference
between the authentic voice of our Guardian from the echo of our
own thoughts/emotions that rise from our sub-conscious mind.
What the Guardian says to each of us, andmany have heard
this same message, is: “I am always with you, I have always been
with you and I will remain with until the very end of your journey
and you no longer need me.” What a beautiful and unbreakable
vow of love!

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
Every  man,  woman  and  child  is  attended  by  his  or  her
Guardian Archangel throughout the day. At night you are sleeping
and dreaming but your Guardian Archangel is not. He is watching
over you like a loving mother tenderly caring for her beloved child.
Since the Guardian Archangel is unified with you, there is never a
time when you are apart from him. To be in communion with your
Guardian it is not a matter of going anywhere, for wherever you go
he  is  there.  So  it  is  only  a  matter  of  becoming  aware  of  his
presence.
Sometimes during introspection or in a meditation you may
have  some  thoughts,  remembrances  or  visions  that  come  to  the
surface  of  your  mind.  These  may  be  pleasing,  displeasing  or
threatening. When this happens do not do anything – just observe
what is coming to the surface. After a while you may notice and
internal  dialog,  an  exchange  of  ideas  taking  place  that  contains
suggestions  for  you.  Who  are  you  having  that  dialogue  with?
Slowly in this way you will begin to have conscious contact with
your Guardian Angel.
Your real guide, your Guardian Archangel, is within you. That
guide is helping you to reason. So, learn to seek and rely more and
more  on  your  Guardian  Archangel’s  most  reasonable  guidance.
When people feel inspired, where is that inspiration coming from?
Often  writers,  musicians  and  artist  say  they  are  inspired  by  a
Muse.  The  word  Muse  is  from  the  Greek  language  and  was  a
reference  to  a  goddess  who  was  the  source  of  knowledge  that
inspired  poets,  and  artist  of  every  kind.  But  most  of  the  time
inspiration  is  coming  from  your  wise  brother  guide,  you  own
Guardian Archangel. But it can come from other intelligences that
also  follow  and  assist  in  your  development.  So,  if  you  need
guidance, you can have it, either by your Guardian Archangel or by
others engaged in the same line of work as you.
Now when you need help, specifically call on your Guardian
Angel, expect an answer, and wait for his well-timed reply. The
reply may not come the very moment you ask but it will come.

And in order to hear that reply you must stay receptive, open and
attentive enough to recognize the answer when it does come. So
ask, watch and pray.

THE PRACTICE: OPENING A DIALOG WITH
YOUR GUARDIAN ANGEL
Relax completely and feel you are in your material body – the
Temple of God.
Breathe deeply and quiet your emotions and still your thoughts
Now  ask  yourself  this  question:  “I  am  breathing.  I  take  deep
breaths and I can do that. I am feeling I am living in this material
body. But, after all, who am I? What am I?
I answer to a name, male or female, but am I that? Or, am I
something more than that? Who am I? What am I?” Seriously ask
yourself that question. Don’t try to give an answer yourself. Who
will give you the answer? Your Guardian Archangel will give you
the answer some time when he finds that you’ll understand him.
In time the Guardian Archangel will answer you through intuition
and  enlightenment.  But  you  must  ask  that  question!  Christ
promised: “Ask and it will be given to you. Knock and it will be
opened to you.” So ask yourself and your Guardian Angel, “Who
am I, what am I? When he feels it is the best moment for you to
understand, you will get the reply from your Guardian Angel who
will say to you: “My love, you are a god. We are gods. Wake up.”
Go deeper into this dialog and ask: “Should I be afraid of the death
of my material body? Does that mean that my Self will cease to exist
with the death of my martial body?” And the answer you get is that
each and every night when you think and feel you are entering
nothingness in deep dreamless sleep, for a time you seem to cease
to exist. Yet each and every morning you recompose yourself and
re-enter your material body. Just contemplate that.
Take deep comfortable breaths and slowly start feeling you are in
your material body again.

Chapter Fifteen
THE KISS OF AN ARCHANGEL
 
Now, what is the difference among all the Archangelic orders
having an Archangelic Self different from the self-consciousness of
the human beings? There is a great difference, of course. The
Archangelic orders have an Archangelic Self. Billions of Michaels
are composing the order of the Michaels, the Lords of Fire and
Light. And billions of Gabriels are composing the Archangelic
order of the Gabriels. And billions and billions of Raphaels are
composing the order of Raphaels. And each of these has its
Archangelic Self-consciousness. But, the one does not differ from
the other. They are feeling the same. Knowing one Archangel of any
order you know all the Archangels of that order. The Archangel’s
consciousness is united. So, one Gabriel represents all the
Gabriels, and one Michael represents all the Michaels. But, no man
represents any other man (as a personality). ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
As  the  Guardian  Angel  watches  over  and  cares  for  our
personality, other orders calledthe Archangels of the Elements, care
for our bodies. You can see evidence of their care in the healing of
wounds and mending of bones. You can feel their presence in your
body  as  warmth,  health  and  vitality.  You  can  even  feel  their
pulsations as the beats of your heart and the involuntary flow of
your breath.
In the 13
th
 century, Saint, Thomas Aquinas declared: “Angels
transcend  every  religion,  every  philosophy,  and  every  creed.  In
fact  Angels  have  no  religion  as  we  know  it.  Their  existence
precedes every religious system that has ever existed on earth.”
Archangels are not theoretical abstractions from some antiquated
mythology; they are ever-present Spirit Beings who love and care
for each one of us. For Daskalos and the Researchers of Truth,
they are real brothers of Spirit who are well known and well loved.
The seven Archangelic orders working in our bodies arecalled the
Archangels of the Elements. They are so named because they are
using the elements Earth, Fire, Water and the Ethers in building and
maintaining our bodies as well as all the universes. Some of these
orders are more approachable than others.
The Archangels never come out of their oneness with God and
experience separateness in the Worlds of Existence as the human
race does. In the process of our humanization, a ray of our Eternal
Spirit Being Self is projected into the Worlds of Separation. We
say “our’ Spirit Being Self, which is not perfectly accurate because
as  a  personality  self,  neither  the  Spirit  nor  Soulbelongs  to  the
personality  –  it  is  the  other  way  around.  Now  this  projection
creates a temporary expression... an existence in time, space and
place. This is our human nature. And it is this human in nature
personality-self that we mistakenly think is our Real Self.
While  a  human  being  is  in  the  Worlds  of  Separation,  The
Archangels of the Elements serve them unceasingly. They serve
according  to  how  the  Archangels  are  using  the  Mind  Super-
Substance in their work. The ones that are most approachable are:

Archangel  Michael,  who’s  primary  element  is  the  fire
element. Michael vibrates light, fire, and all the shades of
the red color. Fire is the heat of the sun and the heart of
the planet. In our body Michael provides warm red blood.
Archangel  Gabriel  is  the  Soul  of  the  Earth.  This
Archangelicorder rules over the element of liquids such as
water,  which  covers  about  75%  of  the  surface  of  our
material planet and the 75% of the water composing our
material body. Gabriel also helps bring peace and harmony
to our Psychical Body. His color is sky-blue.
Archangel Raphael is the result of the cooperation between
Gabriel and Michael. His color is violet which symbolizes
Etheric  Vitality  and  its  electro-magnetic  force.  Etheric
Vitality is Raphael’s element. He supplies our bodies with
power and strength.
Archangel Uriel coordinatesthe work of all the Archangels
of  the  Elements.  He  vibrates  silvery-white  light.  Uriel
keeps order and harmony within each of our bodies and
between them. Macrocosmically and microcosmically he is
the Great Balancer.
These  four  Archangels  appear  in  the  scriptures  of  the
Christians,  Muslims,  Jews,  and  in  the  pre-existing  Persian  and
Egyptian  Cultures.  “Arch”  is  from  the  Greek  word  meaning
principal or chief, so the word Archangel means chief angel. It is
important to note that man did not name these Archangels. Their
names are the actual sounds their vibration make, as reported by
those who have come into direct contact with them. For example,
the  ancient  Egyptians  knew Archangel  Raphael  as  Ra-Fa-El.  In
their language, Ra was the Sun, Fa was vibration and El meant God
as it does to the Hebrews and other ancient cultures. Thus, Ra-Fa-
El  means  the  Sun  vibration  God.  He  is  the  lord  of  the  Etheric
Vitality giving us energy and power.
The  Archangels  of  any  order  constitute  one  wholesystem
whereas the Human Beings are a race of billions of individuals. The
Greek Orthodox Church still mentions this in their services. But
how many people on earth really know what that means?It means

that as a system, each one of these Archangelic Beings is identical
to every other one in their class. They have the exact same range of
vibration. The countless numbers of Michaels are alike in every
way.  The  myriads  of  Gabriels  are  all  the  same;  there  is  no
distinction between them.
Some Archangels,  on  occasion,  take  the  Human  Form  and
manifest themselves physically on Earth. You can find accounts of
this  in  the  Catholic  Bible  and  in  the  scriptures  from  other
traditions. They have always done this, they are doing it today and
they will continue to do so in order to serve man and the Divine
Plan. And for those who have seen them, they typically appear as
a very handsome young man without any feathery wings. “They
are  not  birds,”  Daskalos  often  quipped.  What  they  do  have  is
streams of radiant light coming off and up from their shoulders,
which have often been depicted by artists as wings.
Once in a Stoa Lesson Daskalos said, “If you study other
serious  religions,  you  will  see  that  most  have  mentioned  the
Archangels and Angels but they are not telling much about them or
their work in the Creation. Maybe the other masters did not dare
to reveal it. Nevertheless, it is now time for the people to know the
whole truth.”
Daskalos paused slightly as his eyes scanned his audience and
in a soft voice said: “A human being is from an Archangelic order.”
Then as if challenging himself, he spoke very firmly stating,
“How do I know this? By reading it in a book? – No! By coming in
contact with them and knowing them directly.”
Wanting to give more meaning to his revealing lesson on the
Archangelic  orders,  Daskalos  interjected;  “Let  me  give  you  an
example, you have the colorless white light. As it passes through a
prism, the white light becomes the colors of the spectrum. The
light becomes the reds, blues yellows and so on. In the same way
these  Spirit  Beings  are  passing  through  the  Logos  and  classify
themselves  to  their Archangelic  orders  according  to  the  Divine
Plan.”
The word spectrum is from the Latin language and literally
means “appearance.” So we see the seven colors of light appear

from within the white light by means of a prism. The prism did not
create the seven colors. The prism only causes the inherent colors
within  the  white  light  to  appear.  Similarly,  rays  of  Life-
Lightstream forth from Spirit Beings pass through the prism of
God’s Will-Pleasure and the seven Archangelic orders appear. Like
the colored light of the spectrum, these glorious Archangelic orders
have  not  been  created.  They  appear  when  these  luminous  rays
pass through the Archangelic Archetypes within the Divine Plan.
The  Archangels  are  Holy  Spiritual  Beings  who  project
themselves into the universes that they build and govern without
losing their At-One-Ment with God. The Archangels are of the
Eternal Now, so they do not really understand what time is in the
way we do. Conversely, other Eternal Spirit Beings extend a ray of
their  Eternal  Self  from  the  realms  of  Beingness  to  become
humanized and incarnate in the time, space and place Worlds of
Existence. As  human  beings,  we  have  a  sense  of  being  separate
from God whereas the Archangels do not. Upon the completion of
our  human  incarnations,  we  return  to  the  Realms  of  Beingness
enriched by our experiences during all our incarnations in a way
Archangels cannot comprehend. Coming from an Archangelic order
makes humankind a real brother with the other Archangels.
Now, Imagine two children who are brothers. They were born
and have always lived in a room full of light. Yet, in this condition
they cannot really understand what light is. Without the experience
of darkness, they cannot fully comprehend the light in which they
dwell. Now, take one child out of the light temporarily and show
him the dark of night. Now that child will understand light much
better than his brother who has never seen darkness.
Something similar occurs with the Archangels and man. The
Archangels never leave the Realms of Light to enter into duality
and  experience  the  phenomena  of  darkness.  They  never  feel
separated from God as humans in existence do. Yet, human beings
have a distinct advantage upon their return to the Realms of Light
in  Beingness.  Because,  they  have  gained  a  more  complete
understanding  of  the  created  Worlds  of  Existence  than  the
Archangels. Throughout all our incarnations, the Archangels are,

were,  and  always  will  be  our  caring  companions  and  guides.  It
brings them joy when we cooperate with their work and guidance.
It is time we come to understand and know them better.
No one can say for sure how many Archangelic orders there
are. But we do know what otheradvanced masters have found in all
past times by raising their consciousness to high enough levels to
contact the Holy Archangels. And we can know them through our
own direct experiences. What is knowable to the human intelligence
is that there are different orders of these Archangelic Beings. The
Archangels  get  key  positions  according  to  the  work  they  do.
Others are getting secondary and tertiary positions according to the
work they carry out.
Human  beings  know  very  little  about  the  highest  orders
because  they  stay  within  Absolute  Beingness,  God,  without
changing their nature. They do not work in the manifestation but in
the Laws and Causes behind the manifestation.
Christ  said:  “You  are  gods  –  sons  and  daughters  of  the
Almighty.”  So  we  are  not  inferior  to  the Archangels  as  Spirit-
Beings.  And  these  super  intelligent  brothers  will  help  us
understand what the Selfhood really is. A Spirit-Soul-Self is a god
and  is  not  just  a  limited  personality  composed  of  conflicting
strengths  and  weakness.  Where  are  the  Archangels  of  the
Elementals performing their great works? Everywhere! They have
the Archangelic Super-Consciousness, which allows them to work
completely outside the conception of time, space and place. This is
not so understandable to humans unless we can free ourselves from
our bodies by making the three Exosomatosis and enter that same
state of Super-Consciousness as the Archangels.
As we said, our Guardian Archangel is always in a state of
attunement and At-One-Ment with us. But the other Archangels
are not in At-One-Ment with us. But we can approach and attune
to them. Approaching the Archangel Michael, we feel his warmth.
Approaching  the  Archangel  Gabriel,  we  feel  his  sweetness.
Archangel Raphael is more expressive so as soon as we start to
approach him, he immediately responds and we may feel a shiver
or rush of energy.

And sometimes the Archangels kiss us. When they kiss us
they are embracing us. This means that they enter in our Etheric
Double and we feel the warmth of their love and light radiating
within  us.  How  does  this  happen?  The Archangels  have  their
Archangelic  form,  but  they  can  take  any  form  they  like. And
sometimes  they  like  to  take  the  Human  Form.  But  the  Human
Form they take does not need an organ like the brain or heart. And
yet in these same areas of their form, thereare centers of pulsating
radiations. So when they enter our Etheric Double and embrace us,
the pulsing radiations from their Heart Center comes into harmony
with our Heart Center. This is their kiss of love for us. When this
happens to you, maybe you will feel like you arelike butter melting
in  the  hot  sun  and  you  know  nothing  else  but  love.  Thispure
selfless love is dissolving everything else in you but love. If you
allow  yourself  to  surrender  totally  into  it,  you  may  experience
what  Daskalos’  called  a  “sweet  slumber.”  This  is  their  kiss  of
perfect love for you.

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
Those that are sincere enough in their research of these things
and are willing to undergo the discipline of training, can come in
conscious contact with the Archangels. By Attuning to them we
can reach them and they will teach us. If we silence our emotions
and still our thoughts enough we can attune to them. We make our
approach  through  different  levels  of  attunement.  To  learn  this
powerful skill we start by attuning to what we want to know. At
first we attune to simple things and then to higher things and then
to the Holy Archangels. To attune to the Archangels we must raise
our vibrations and thus our consciousness to their level. Do not
expect them to come to you. Coming in contact with them they are
willing and wanting to teach us the secrets of their own elements:
Fire, Water, and Energy.
But we have to qualify ourselves before they will teach us.
Then they can and will teach you so many things that even an
earthly master is not allowed to tell you. But you must approach
them  first  by  tuning  into  them,  entering  their  aura  through  the
vibrations  of  their  colors  and  enjoy  their  wisdom  –  this  is
attunement. So we practice visualization with colors sometimes as
light,  sometimes  as  flames  and  sometimes  with  their  full
Archangelic Form. In order to contact them we need to be able to
reproduce  the  colors  and  hues  in  visualization.  Otherwise  we
cannot  know  the  various  ranks  of  the Archangels  and Angels.
There  are  many  exercises  and  meditations  to  help  us  develop
awareness of the Archangelic Orders and our ability to cooperate,
which are found in the Esoteric Practices and Gates to the Light
books.
Many  of  the  exercises  are  done,  in  a  visualized  pyramid,
which  is  like  our  workshop  for  certain  meditations.  Within  the
four-sided  pyramid,  which  we  construct  with  psycho-Noetical
light,  we  come  into  intimate  contact  with  these  Divine  Beings.
When  standing  upright  within  the  pyramid  Archangel  Michael
appears on our right side, while on the left side Raphael manifests,
and behind us Gabriel comes forth. Uriel, who remains formless, is

experienced as silvery white light looking like a misty cloud on the
floor of the pyramid. The triangle facing you is the space for God
the Father, Christ Logos, and the Holy Spirit. After Attunement it
is possible with training to go further in At-One-Ment with them.
At-One-Ment  means  to  be  one  with  them,  which  is  the
assimilation   of   your   self-consciousness   to   their   Self
Consciousness. Really the only thing keeping us apart from our
brothers,  the  Archangels,  is  our  own  ignorance.  And  it  is  our
research  of  the  truth  that  burns  away  the  foggy  shrouds  of
ignorance.

THE PRACTICE: INTRODUCTORY ARCHANGEL
MEDITATION
Relax completely your body. The Holy Archangels allow you to call
it yours, although it is theirs, not yours. Call it yours. You are living
in it. Now breathe and feel you are in your material body, from the
toes of your feet to your forehead.
You feel you are in the material body, yet you don’t know who you
are. The only thing you are feeling is that you are living in your
gross material body. It is under the care of the Holy Archangels of
the  Elements.  All  the  hairs  on  your  body  are  numbered.  The
Archangels are making each one of them grow. You don’t know
that but the Holy Archangels do. They are working for you in your
gross material body. They give you the right to use it as your own.
At this moment the Holy Archangels are working in you, loving
you,  making  all  the  organs  in  your  material  bodies  function
properly for you. They are providing health in the eyes so that you
may see. Mentally, send them thanks. They will understand it and
they will feel pleased.
The Holy Archangels are living in your heart. Here you will have
contact with the great intelligences called the Archangels of the
Elements. They work tirelessly in your bodies- loving you. And,
what  do  you  offer  them?  Nothing!  What  do  they  offer  you?
Everything!They are always loving us and waiting for us to join
them.

Chapter Sixteen
ACROSS TIME AND SPACE
 
Everything that has existed, was conceived, thought of and that has
lived on the planet is in what we call the Cosmic Consciousness of
the planet, the Planetary Cosmic Consciousness, which is not, of
course, the Solar Cosmic Consciousness of the whole solar system.
Then more and more to the Cosmic Consciousness of the
universes. So, you have the individual and the common Cosmic
Consciousness in every human being, but you have at the same
time everything registered in the planetary Cosmic Consciousness.
Why do we call it cosmic? Because it is the Absolute Super
substance of the Mind.
 
What did those enlightened ones in the past see in that Cosmic
Consciousness? They saw the planet and its conditions in various
times. At the beginning volcanos, the unfriendly atmosphere,
difficult things in life. One can see all that. One can see different
phenomena of life on the planet suitable for that time: huge
serpentine beasts going here and there attacking each other, and
things like that. Then, we can see the human beings in the caves,
holding just a club in their hands to protect themselves from the
wild animals around them, and killing smaller animals for
themselves to eat. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING:
To understand Daskalos’ description of the creation of the
material universe it is important to know where and how he did his
research. Daskalos frequently emphasized in his lessons that the
best and most reliable source of information on anything was in the
Cosmic  Consciousness,  the  Universal  Memory,  the  so-called
Akashic Records.
Today  and  in  past  time,  mystics  who  have  raised  their
consciousness  to  very  high  levels  have  been  able  to  access  the
Cosmic Consciousness. We might think of it like the memory of
God, and God remembers everything. Literally everything that has
happened to us, or on earth, or in the solar system, or in the galaxy
and beyond is recorded in perfect accuracy in the Divine Memory
of the Cosmic Consciousness. What is recorded there is not only
from the material universe but also in the Psychical and Noetical
Worlds  of  existence. And  so  a  mystic  or  sincere  Researcher  of
Truth  can  attune  to  and  come  in  contact  with  the  Cosmic
Consciousness and perform research.
In  this  Divine  archive,  one  can  see  anything  that  has  ever
happened in the past as living scenes. Not two dimensional scenes
like on a flat movie screen but the mystic will experience himself
directly  in  a  living  three-dimensional  like  scene  watching  events
unfold. And  the  scenes  contain  every  detailassociated  with  that
event. You can see people moving, working and talking; you can
see any birds or animals that were present in the event and even
insects. And if another mystic were to access that same recorded
scene, they could only see the exact same recording. Because that is
what it is – a recording. So everyone’s actions, thoughts, emotions,
desires and words are impeccably preserved in this recording. We
are  constantly  contributing  to  the  quality  of  the  Cosmic
Consciousness  according  to  thoughts,  desires  and  emotions  we
harbour and express.
Every human being has what is called in psychology, a sub-
consciousness or sub-conscious mind. Here permanently recorded
and mostly inaccessible to the common person is everything that

we  have  seen,  said,  heard,  felt,  thought,  or  donethroughout  our
whole life. Even those things we saw but gave no attention to are
recorded  in  perfect  accuracy.  So  all  our  good  and  not  so  good
thoughts and feelings simultaneously record in both the Cosmic
Consciousness and our own sub-consciousness. It does not matter
if a desire or thought became an action or not it is still very real. So
it has been actualized in the heart and mind and recorded faithfully
for all time.
From  the  ancient  times,  mystics,  yogis,  sages  and  masters
have  spoken  of  the  incredible  recording  capacity  of  the  Cosmic
Consciousness. It is here in this Cosmic Memory that the record of
the  entire  creation  lies  perfectly  preserved.  It  is  the  imprinting
quality  of  the  Mind,  which  does  this  recording  in  the  Cosmic
Memory, just like it does in our memory.
Each of our incarnations stays forever in the Cosmic Memory
as  a  living  record.  Recorded  there  is  every  detail  of  every  past
incarnation of everyone. Nevertheless, similar to any recording, a
master  who  contacts  it  cannot  change  the  original  imprinted
recording. And we all create a new recording in each new lifetime.
Ideally, the quality of what we are recording will improve in each
new incarnation, but no one can alter any recording already stored
in  the  Universal  Memory.  So  those  stories  created  by  fiction
writers about going back in time and changing events in the past to
alter the future are just that – fiction.
Now to witness what occurred with the creation of our solar
system  billions  of  years  ago,  a  mystic  must  enter  the  Cosmic
Consciousness, which is everywhere. So it is not a matter of going
anywhere to reach this Universal Memory, it is a matter of raising
one’s consciousness to high enough levels to contact it. And even
then, such a researcher has to be able to scroll back in time to the
point  of  its  original  occurrence.  A  Master  with  powerful
concentrationcan  enter  the  etheric  records  of  distant  past
civilizations and see everything that has occurred.
The entire material universe is within the Super-Substance of
the Mind, which constantly records all that transpires. Daskalos’
explanation of Creation comes from his reading of the Universal

Memory directly. This he does in a state of Super-Consciousness.
However, Daskalos qualified that in order to find the records of the
distant past one must develop the ability to, “Play with time – To
see in a few minutes what has occurred in centuries.” A mystic can
see all the things from the past, because even the past is in the
Eternal Present. Reading what has taken place over thousands of
centuries and recorded in the Cosmic Consciousness can be seen in
minutes.
One  of  the  prime  characteristics  of  God  in  expression  is
motion, vibration. In the creation of the material universe, Daskalos
first describes the Mind Super-Substance in motion. In his reading,
he  sees  a  mass  of  Mind  Super-Substance  rotating  around  itself
manifesting first as the element of fire-light. This is the beginning
of  the  material  universe  and  all  the  galaxies,  solar  systems  and
planets.  It  is  the  point  where  the  material  universe  begins  its
sudden outward expansion.
This enormous sphere of fire-light has unimaginable force and
spins on its axis. As it spins it is hurling off many, many other
fiery balls of light in all directions. These become the central suns
or nucleus of all the billions and billions of galaxies in the three
dimensional  universe. Again,  these  fiery  central  suns  repeat  the
same process; rotating and casting off massive quantities of smaller
fiery  balls  spinning  at  incredible  speeds,  which  become  the
hundreds  of  billions  of  suns  of  all  the  individual  solar  systems
composing a single galaxy. Our sun is one of these. Again, these
fiery  suns  in  turn  are  whirling  around  on  their  axis  too  and
areejecting  other  still  smaller  fiery  balls  that  over  the  course  of
thousands of centuries are destined to become the planets. These
too cast off one or more other even smaller fiery balls, which cool
down to become a planet’s moons. All of these heavenly bodies are
stabilizing at a certain distance from the fiery sphere that ejected
them. Each one is finding just the proper orbit based on its size,
speed and mass. All are obeying the physical laws of centripetal
and centrifugal force according to the universal laws of balance and
order.
In the ancient Hindu creation myth, Brahma the creator God

breathes out and manifests all of creation in the process. In this
story, the universe continues to expand out until Brahma stops his
exhalation and begins his in breath, drawing this expanding universe
back to its origin. Drawn back in by his inhalation the universe is
destroyed. Then Brahma once again breathes out and re-manifests
the  universe.  This  creation  and  destruction  of  the  universe
continually  repeats  over  enormous  epochs  of  time.  This
mythological account of creation is thousands of years old and yet
the basic dynamics of it coincide with that of the current scientific
explanation.
Now compare Daskalos’ account and the mythological Hindu
creation  story  with  the  conventional  view  held  by  orthodox
science.  Stephen  Hawkins  (British  theoretical  physicist  and
mathematician)  describes  a  very  similar  scenario  as  the  Hindu
myth, called the Hot Big Bang. The Big Bang theory states in the
beginning, plasma (supper heated gas) was concentrated into a very
small  volume.  The  gravitational  compaction  of  this  plasma  in  a
small space produced unimaginably high temperature. This super
condensed hot gaseous state; full of energy caused an enormous
explosion  thatscience  calls  the  Hot  Big  Bang.  From  this  one
enormous fiery explosion the galaxies, suns and planets eventually
coalesced over eons of time. Beginning with the initial big bang the
universe began expanding. Currently it is still expanding and the
distance between all the galaxies and everything in the galaxiesis
increasing as the universe is cooling.
This parallels what Daskalos and others mystics are saying
from  their  research.  This  should  not  be  a  surprise.  Scientific
research often comes to prove empirically what mystical research
has previously stated. Hundreds of years before science discovered
the circulatory and nervous systems the mystics in India, China
and elsewhere described them in detail.
Orthodox science also theorizes that this expanding universe
will one day reach a limit and loose its momentum outward and
will begin to collapse slowly back on itself. They speculate that
the planets, suns and galaxies in the universe will draw back toward
their  origin.  In  Hinduism,  this  would  correspond  to  the

metaphorical in breath of Brahma. As all the matter of the universe,
returns to its point of origin a gravitational field of unimaginable
strength  will  compress  all  matter  so  much  that  it  will  initiate
another Hot Big Bang. Again, a new material universe will begin its
outward  expansion  once  again  only  to  reach  a  limit  and  begin
collapsing again. This scientific theory of the creation of our three
dimensional  universe  follows  surprisingly  close  to  the  ancient
mythologized Hindu creation story.
Returning to Daskalos’ account, initially these blazing spheres
of light are only manifesting the element of fire. Yet, within the
fire-light all the other elements are contained in a yet un-manifested
state. One of the fiery balls that spins off from our solar system’s
sun is thrust outward spiraling in the absolute zero temperature of
space, and cools over eons of time to become our temporary home
– planet Earth. It finds its place of balance, orbiting just a certain
distance from its source our sun. Over thousands of centuries, the
surface of this fiery ball begins to cool. As the surface cools it
forms  a  crust,  which  cracks  back  open  releasing  molten  lava,
cooling down, crusting over, and then cracking open again releasing
more  lava  and  suffocating  clouds  of  gases.  There  were  literally
millions and millions of active volcanoes during this period.
This  process  continues  for  hundreds  of  centuries.  Gases
released during this process are held by gravity around the newly
formed  planet.  So  the  water  element  is  seen  forming  in  ringsof
clouds with the smoke from the volcanoes. Seven of these cloud-
rings were created, each covering about a third of the planet. These
massive cloud banks were moving and together created a shroud
covering the entire planet that was so thick, the sun light could not
penetrated it. The crust of the Earth was very hot at this time;but
it was cooling as the clouds heavily laden with water vapor hung
thousands  of  miles  abovethe  planet.  These  gases  formed  a
primitive  atmosphere  in  the  space  between  the  Earth  and  the
clouds. Eventually the water vapors in the clouds precipitated out
in a series of many deluges, raining down on the hot Earth. This
created new conditions on the planet. The rains hit the hot surface
of the planet cooling the planet more and releasing steamy water

vapors which returned to the atmosphere and rained back down on
the planet repeatedly. This cycle continued for ages and ages. This
process created oceans, lakes, rivers and the necessary chemistry
and conditions developed over time to support life forms on the
planet. By the time the last deluge of rain had fallen, there was a
new environment created. The orbital distance of the newly formed
Earth  varies  93  to  95  million  miles  from  the  sun.  The  perfect
distance to support life. A slight variation in this distance and the
planet would be inhabitable.
Now the human beings found themselves on Earth in a solid
body after coming from a more refined state called Eden in the
Bible.  As  the  story  in  the  Old  Testament  states;  Archangel
Michael with a whirling sword of fire kicks Adam and Eve out of
the  Garden  of  Eden  for  disobeying  God.  Regarding  this
mythological story of the Fall of Man as a means to explain man’s
arrival on the planet Daskalos firmly declared: “Nonsense! It is the
Divine Plan. There is no such a thing as the Fall. That is a Jewish
invention. No! This is the Divine Plan.”
We read in the Bible that after Archangel Michael exiles Adam
and Eve from Eden they were dressed in “Tunics of Skin,” which is
a symbolic way of saying they incarnated on Earth in solid bodies
with skin. In the entire physical universe with all the hundreds of
billions of galaxies each with hundreds of billions of solar systems
and  each  solar  system  with  many  planets  it  is  myopically
egocentric to think that only our planet has the human and animal
life. This same story is repeated throughout the three dimensional
universe.
So in the Cosmic Consciousness, creation is manifested first
as the element of fire and then the other elements manifested from
it. The ancient Greek philosopher, Heraclitus (540? – 475? BC)
considered the founder of Greek metaphysics, also taught that fire
is the primordial source of all matter. We also know that the fire
element is also expressed as heat and light. What exactly is light?
What  we  call  light  is  only  a  small  range  of  etheric  vibrations,
electromagnetic radiations that are detectable by our material eyes.
All light that is above and below that range is what we call black,

which is really just an imperceptible condition. We learn in school
that frequencies oflight in a slightly lower range than our eyes can
see is called infra-red and the frequency slightly higher is called
ultra  violet.  It  is  black  to  us  yet  in  reality  it  is  light.  We  also
understand that the same is true of sound; the human ear can detect
a  relative  narrow  range  of  frequencies  (110  to  880  Hz).  Sound
vibrations lower or higher than the material ear can register we call
silence. And  likewise  what  we  call  solid  matter  is  also  only  a
narrow range of vibrations detectable by the human body’s sense
of touch. We understand material substance as solid by touching it.
If it vibrates at the same range of vibration as our hand, then to us
it is solid. But the psychical and Noetical substance composing the
Psychical  and  Noetical  Worlds  vibrates  in  a  higher  range  of
frequencies than our material body and so remains undetectable by
our material body’s sense of touch.
But seen from another point of view, the highest frequencies
of the light give usunderstanding. The Mind is light and this light is
different from the light at lower states which humans interpret as
emotions and feelings. These give us the sense of being attracted or
repelled. And then in still lower states we have the Light in the
world of matter as etheric vibrations emanating from a fire or the
sun. And even at this level there is a big difference in the light. We
have the light coming from a burning log. Is that the same light as
the light coming from the thermo nuclear furnace we call our sun?Is
everything  either  light  or  darkness?  There  is  no  real  darkness.
Everything is the Mind and this Mind Super-Substance is the light.
This  means  that  everything  created  by  the  Mind  is  light
manifesting at different rates of vibration. Every plane of existence,
the Noetical Planes, The Psychical Planes and the Material Plane
and their Etheric Doubles exists because there is light in them. As a
Spirit-Soul we are the Divine Everlasting Light. But as a human
being  entering  the  Worlds  of  Existence  what  we  experience  as
darkness  is  light  in  a  range  that  is  imperceptible  to  us.  So  we
misidentify the light that is beyond the range of perception to our
eye as darkness.
Light  can  be  classified  into  seven  degrees  of  intensity  or

luminosities. And as we have these seven degrees of luminosity of
the light, we have the seven veils or shadows of the light. But to
have any shadow we first must have the light which is the reality.
Then you must have a surface on which the shadow falls, which
means there must be something in between the light and the surface
that is casting a shadow. Darkness and shadows are not real. For
example, in the valley of the Kings in Egypt, there are many tombs
that have been sealed shut long ago. For thousands of years, the
interior of these tombs have not seen the light of the sun. The walls
and roof of the tombs blocked the light and the tombs remained in
“darkness,” all the while the brilliance of the desert sun wasblazing
around  the  tomb.  The  moment  the  tombs  were  opened  by
archeologists and exposed to the light from the sun, the darkness
was dispelled. If darkness and shadows were a reality where did
they  go  when  the  tomb  was  opened  and  the  light  entered?
Nowhere! So darkness and shadows are not real. What is real is the
light and the in between thing that cast the shadow.
There have been many in the past and current times that have
reached  beyond  the  shadows  and  attained  the  light  of  Self-
Realization.  The  vast  majority  of  people  however  are  still
concentrated on their personality-self which is but a shadow of
their radiant Spirit-Soul Self cast in time, space and place. Today
and in all past times, people have fallen under the illusion to think
they  are  only  the  expressions  (thoughts,  feelings,  desires  and
behaviors) of this shadow of their real Self. But as a Spirit-Soul, we
are the Life-Light that is casting the shadow.
What are the effects of light? If you are in the darkest of a
moonless night you cannot see what is all around you. There is not
enough light to stimulate the sense of sight in your material eyes.
But when the sun comes with its abundant visible light then you
will say you “see” what is around you. But exactly how is this
light making sight possible? The material light rays coming from
the sun take about thirteen minutes to reach the Earth but they
cannot penetrate solid objects. And so the light only strikes the
surface of the objects and is reflected off the front of that surface in
all  directions. And  the  light  reflected  off  the  object  carries  the

imprint of the shape, the texture and color of that object. Now
these reflected light rays carry a miniature imprint of the details of
the object that enters the pupils of our eyes and strikes on the
optic  nerve  and  creates  an  irritation.  Up  to  this  point  the  light
coming from the sun, striking the object and irritating the optic
nerve  has  been  visible  material  light.  Now  this  irritation  is
transferred to the brain and interpreted as the sense of seeing and
feeling that we are in the environment with all the objects we see.
But the irritation coming from the optic nerve to the brain is only a
vibration.  There  is  no  visible  material  light  passing  through  the
optic nerve or in the brain and yet we experience these non-visible
vibrations as the sense of seeing objects illuminated by the sun.
Since there is no visible light in our brain, what kind of light is
making us see? It is the ethereal vibrations that are passed to the
brain that we are interpreting as seeing.
Now with your eyes closed you may recall images you have
seen  with  your  eyes  open.  You  can  recall  an  object’s  shape,
texture,  color  and  its  relationship  to  other  objects  all  of  which
appears to you as if you were seeing images in the material light.
We call this memory. But again there is no light in your brain, so in
what light are we seeing the memorized images? And there are the
illuminated images you see in a dream when your body is totally
asleep. Are those images real? Are the images you recall in memory
with your eyes closed real? Or is it only the images you see with
your eyes open real? Again there is no light in your brain, so any
images  you  see  with  your  eyes  open  or  closed  are  real  and  all
interpretations  of  ethereal  vibrations.  But  the  real  question  is,
“who  is  interpreting  these  etheric  vibrations?”It  takes  deep
contemplation and meditation to enter into the meaning of light,
shadows and sight.
Again the Cosmic Consciousness is everywhere, which means
we  are  in  it  and  it  is  in  each  of  us.  Not  only  can  we  see  the
development of our planet recorded in the Cosmic Consciousness,
our own long development through all our successive incarnations
is  also  recorded  there. And  we  can  consider  each  of  our  past
incarnations a book we have written. In this lifetime we are writing

in  the  new  book  of  our  current  incarnation  and  this  is  what
captures all our attention now. And so we do not remember the
good  or  bad  pages  we  have  written  in  our  books  during  past
incarnations  and  yet  it  is  all  there  recorded  in  the  Cosmic
Consciousness.
But who or what specifically is doing all this writing? The
writing is done by the elements we are creating and expressing all
the time. Our past thoughts, feelings, and behaviors are Elementals
and they are accurately chronicled and retained as living memories
within the Cosmic Consciousness. Therein are recorded the total of
all our experiences and this recording is living because it is made of
the  Mind  vitality,  which  itself  is  living.  And  when  your
personality self is assimilated with your Inner Self you will gain
access to all the books that you have written in the past. So in this
regard we could metaphorically say; the Cosmic Consciousness is
like a library, with shelves containing all the many books of past
incarnations that you have written.
When  you  reach  this  level,  there  is  no  one  and  nothing
preventing you from picking up a book of a past incarnation and
looking at it. By reading your book on any past incarnation you
can  experience  again  what  was  enjoyable.  What  about  the  very
painful  parts  in  your  past  incarnation  when  you  suffered?  Do
those parts now give you the experience of pain? Happily no. By
the  time  you  reach  this  level  of  consciousness  where  you  can
access the past records, these parts will not give you pain, because
you  have  removed  the  vices  that  give  you  things  like  guilt  and
shame.
So  when  you  reach  the  highest  level  of  consciousness  you
realize  you  have  not  lost  anything.  You  will  not  even  lose  the
short-lived  personalities  you  cherished  so  much  in  your  past
incarnations.  You  will  find  all  these  books  of  past  incarnations
perfectly  preserved.  So  there  is  no  loss  in  achieving  Self-
Realization there is only gaining. In this state you can attune to
any past incarnation and know it. And if you want to you can by
means  of  At-One-Ment  enter  that  living  Elemental  of  a  past
incarnated personality. But in reaching the glorious liberation of

Self-Realization why would you want to enter the limited shell of
your old personality?

PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
On the spiritual journey, our passage from the shadows to the
light, many people read many books on the subject from many
different sources. Nothing wrong with comparative study like this.
But at some point you may ask yourself: “What am I truly gaining
by reading a lot of books about spirituality?” Of course you can
gain a considerable amount of knowledge, but if you cannot put it
to use what good is it? But if you learn to put this knowledge to
use; that is good and it will produce lasting results. But that is the
whole point: it is absolutely necessary that we learn how to make
use of the spiritual information we gather. It has to be planted and
cultivated in the soil of your own life; otherwise it remains like a
beautiful pressed flower. A pressed flower between the pages of a
book is lovely to look it but does not have the beauty andvitality
that aliving flower has.
Just  claiming  that  you  are  a  mystic  because  you  know
something  of  the  mystical  teachings  will  not  produce  deep  and
lasting  results. A  long  time  ago  on  Cyprus,  a  person  came  to
Daskalos claiming he was an advanced mystic; because he believed
he had achieved a very high level of spirituality by studying the
mystical  teachings  of  the  Rosicrucian,  the  Arcane  and  the
Theosophist  schools.  However  as  Daskalos  pointed  out,  “The
only thing he had achieved out of all this knowledge was an inflated
egoism.”  Because  he  believed  he  knew  everything  about  the
mystical  teachings  and  the  people  who  did  not  know  about
spiritual matters seemed like inferior insects to him. This is a very
self-destructive belief. Because in truth, as you really advance in
the research of truth, you will not feel more proud and superior.
You feel more and more humble.
The man had told Daskalos that he had passed all the levels of
the Rosicrucian school. The Rosicrucian, Theosophical and Arcane
schools have truth in their teachings so it is not their fault this man
studies made him feel so superior to others. This older man had
been studying since Daskalos was a small child and had a lot of
theoretical knowledge about the Chakras, the Kundulini energy and

told  Daskalos  about  it.  So  Daskalos  asked  him,  “Have  you
succeeded  in  having  Exosomatosis,  a  conscious  out  of  body
experience?” The man said he did some exercises once and felt he
was out of his body but he got scared and returned to his body and
never tried it again.
During conversations with people Daskalos always tried to
give a needed lesson and sometimes he would test you by throwing
out bait for your egoism; just to revealto you how active your
egoism was. So as the man revealed what he thought was right,
Daskalos feigned a reaction to what the man believed. Immediately
the  man  lost  all  his  self-control  and  spoke  down  to  Daskalos
saying: “What a pity, that people think you are something great.”
Then he swore at Daskalos and called him “worthless.” In absolute
kindness, Daskalos replied, “Let’s see, my friend, you lost control,
got angry and swore. Did you really learn anything from all those
years  of  study?”At  another  point  in  the  conversation  the  man
complained and accused his workers of stealing and back-stabbing
him. Again Daskalos delivered his lesson saying, “My friend, your
knowledge has not helped you at all.”
Daskalos’ point was that real spiritual advancement comes by
implementing  the  knowledge  we  study. And  the  killing  of  their
anger is the first labor a Researcher of Truth undertakes. From the
start a researcher must put this knowledge to use and continue to
integrateit more and more in to their life as he or she progresses. So
parallel to the theoretical knowledge we must have the practical use
of it. We must practice and live what we learn. Beware of those
who gain powers but do not or cannot use them for good. Even in
the  system  for  the  Research  of  Truth,  there  has  been  a
fewthatprogressedbut  misused  their  new  found  powers.  The
advanced  teachers  in  this  system  are  aware  of  such  things  and
unhappily will block these people’s powers. This speaks to the
importance of developing a pure and loving heart simultaneously as
we  gain  knowledge  and  power.  Because,  without  love  and
compassion  what  will  people  use  their  mystical  knowledge  and
powers for?
Now there is a connection between our sub-consciousness and

the Cosmic Consciousness. But it is not wise to try to prematurely
enter  the  mansion  of  Cosmic  Consciousness  before  putting  the
house of our own sub-consciousness in order. So we must establish
the  habit  of  checking  what  impressions  come  to  our  attention
through the five senses, how we interpret or misinterpret them and
store them in our sub-consciousness. We have to find out what
these impressions and interactions are creating in our personality:
Anger?  Peace?  Dissatisfaction?  Satisfaction?  Because  all  our
experiences  either  give  us  degrees  of  pleasing  impressions  or
degrees of painful impressions. As we study those experiences that
give us pain and those experiences that give us pleasure it reveals
much about the interests of our personality and the quality of our
character. When classifying our experiences in the degrees of pain it
caused or in the degrees of pleasure it caused, we also must ask
why. Why does a certain experience give you pleasure and others
give you pain? Why does a certain experience that gave you pain in
the  past,  today  not  give  you  any  pain?  Why  have  certain
pleasurable experiences in the past, no longer give you pleasure
when you experience them today? Which leads to a larger question:
What is pain and what is pleasure?
We must keep the question “why?” in mind as we bravely
examine our sub-conscious, conscious behaviors and reactions to
the experiences in our life. But in order to know the truth, we must
be the ones that answer all these “whys.” We make this kind of
self-analysis not only to know how we are being influenced by our
life experiences, but the real aim is to disassociate our sense of Self
from these reactions in order to find the Soul-Self and enjoy its
tranquil nature. By investigating what has been stored in our sub-
consciousness  we  can  bring  to  the  surface  of  our  memory  a
disagreeable  experience  with  another  person,  look  at  it
dispassionately and make any corrections in our attitude. We can
then send the appropriate energies to that person and bring down
the tensions between youwithout having to say anything to that
person. This is a way for anyone, highly educated or not, to face
such difficulties, and silently work to dissolve conflicts.

THE PRACTICE: AN EXERCISE
Start by concentrating in your whole material body. Feel every
muscle completely relaxed.
Feel being in your whole body from your tips of your toes to the top
of your head.
You are feeling in the whole material body but who are you who can
feel living in your material body?
You are a personality living in a material body. Now recompose
this personality with the feelings, desires and thoughts.
That is you as a personality, an entity that is now concentrating in
the material body and feeling it is yours.
Now ask yourself these questions:
Who am I living in this material body and concentrate in it and feel
being in it?
How can I develop my self-consciousness to be able to feel being in
my Psychical and Noetical Body?
How can I control my emotions, desires and master my reactions to
life experiences?
How can I control my thoughts to become a master of the Mind?
Now bring to your consciousness a person you had difficulty with.
Maybe you have negativity or hatred in your sub-consciousness for
this person and maybe they have the same for you.
But both of you are human beings with weaknesses and faults.
Visualize this person in your mind’s eye.
Do not see them as angry but clearly visualize that person happy
and smiling.
Breathe deeply and comfortably and make your Heart Center a sun
of clear rosy light.
See this rosy sun in your Heart Center radiating rays of light in all
directions.
See that person’s face washed in the brilliant rosy light of your
heart and see them smiling.
Mentally tell that person that you love them. Never mind the difficult
moments you had with them.
The difficulties are personality issues. While in reality, the Inner Self

of both of you is a god.
Appeal to that god in them and not to their personality. Work from
a higher level.
Send that person your love and see them happy and de-energize
any negativity in you about them.
This brings balance and if you do not want to be in contact, ok,
bless them to go their way in peace.
If you do want to be in contact with that person, let it be on much
better terms in the future.
Our family, friends, acquaintances and especially those who think
they are our enemies are in need of our love not our complaints and
hatreds. Complaints and hatreds are very strong toxins poisoning
our hearts, minds and even our material bodies.

Chapter Seventeen
LIFE IN THE HIGHER WORLDS
 
The material world is Mind matter. Mind solid is matter. In the
Psychical World we have Mind substance. The substance of the
Mind can be formulated much more easily by thought of a man or
an Archangel than the material we have on the material plane. Of
course, we can formulate matter. We can take stones, earth, water,
and create (according to our mind) our constructions. But, it is not
very easy to do so using the mind, the thought, the hands, or the
machinery to make what we want. In the Psychical planes
everything is much easier. Thought creates!
 
You’ll find out and you will see when you develop your self-
consciousness in the Psychical Body, that the Psychical Worlds are
more real than the material world, because you can use
concentration and observation there in a much better way than you
do through the material brain. So, in the Psychical Worlds we have
the environment created by the Holly Archangels which is very,
very lovely. Even the places we call hells. What are hells? They are
very similar to the hells we have on the material plane. Instead of
having a very lovely landscape men poison it. It is the same with a
man being closed up in his thoughts, in a hell of his own. ~
Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
Coming to the natural completion of our Circle of Possibilities
on Earth our material body dies. When this happens to someone
we know and love, we have the feeling we have lost our loved one.
But really what do we know of our loved ones, our children, our
parents. What do we know of the real entity that lived in a material
body? Likewise what do you know about what you are in reality?
We see the material body but when it dies we do not see the body
anymore and many think the loved one has been lost, mistaking
them to be only the material body.
So we think we are losing our loved ones when they leave
their material body. But they are leaving their material body every
night during sleep just as you are. The next morningthey come back
and enter their material body again. This happens to all of us every
twenty-four hours. But returning to the material body you do not
retain  much  or  anything  of  what  has  happened  to  you  in  the
Psychical  Worlds  while  you  were  asleep.  If  you  do,  you  only
remember  some  impressions  from  your  dream  states.  This  is
because  there  is  a  gap  between  your  material  brain  and  your
Psychical Body. And so you wake in the morning not knowing
what  happened  and  yet  your  personality  is  exactly  like  it  was
before going to sleep. You have the same way of living, thinking
and feeling.
When you start practicing certain exercises you will come to
know for sure that you are not the material body. Archangels are
taking care of our body; while we often work against their work by
the way we live. But who are you? If I ask you who are you, you
will give me your name. It is a name given to you by the whim of
your parents. And you present yourself to others with your given
name. But are you that name? No. You are not your name or the
material  body  you  are  living  in.  When  you  pass  over  your
personality will remain exactly as it was before you passed over.
Your personality as you created it remains intact after the death of
the material body. The only thing you lose in the change called
death is your material body. But it is ok; you have anotherbetter

body, you have a Psychical Bodythat corresponds to the Psychical
Worlds it inhabits. And that body has the same appearance as your
material body. If you had a scar on your arm in the material world,
you will see it also on your Psycho-Noetical Body, which is the
form of the personality. So when you pass over you retain your
personality and its appearance.
But are you the personality? Many people make the mistake
to think they are their material body and in the same way virtually
everyone makes the mistake to think they are their personality.
Eventually you will discover you are not the personality. But for
now, after passing over, you will continue your way of living in
the Psychical Worlds. On earth you live in a material body that has
in it the personality, which is composed of your Psychical Body
and Noetical Body. Now we all know something about how life
works in the material world living in a material body. We move
about  in  space,  we  see  the  light,  trees,  lakes,  mountains  and
understand our environment. We use materials from the material
plane  to  build  houses  and  other  constructions.  The  Psychical
planes are the Psychical Body of the planet. Just as we have a
Psychical and a Noetical Body, the Earth has a Psychical and a
Noetical Body. The Earth is living and breathing; it is not a dead
thing.
So after passing over people are recomposing themselves in
the  Psychical  planes  and  those  who  live  self-consciously  there
know it. Just as we can study and enjoy the environment on Earth,
we  can  study  and  know  the  psychical  environment.  And  the
psychical  environment  has  everything  we  have  on  the  material
plane, and even more exists there. Those who know the physical
planes  know  there  are  seven  main  planes  each  with  seven  sub-
planes – 49 in all. All of these planes are in the planet, on the
surface of the planet and thousands of miles around the Earth. So
the  Psychical  planes  are  a  whole  lot  bigger  than  the  physical
planet. Plus the conditions of this fourth dimension reality make
these  worlds  even  more  unlimited.  In  the  Psychical  planes  we
continue our Circle of Possibilities where our life might be very
short or much, much longer than our life on earth. What makes our

life there shorter or longer has to do with our life lessons that we
have to assimilate.
In the Psychical planes there are houses, so people continue
to  live  in  houses  there.  How  do  we  get  these  houses?  In  the
material world we may inherit a house from our parents or relatives
who passed over. Or we have them built for us. So after passing
over it is the same, we find ourselves with our loved ones and
family who have already passed over and are living in houses on
the other side.
Typically after passing over the departed do not immediately
leave  the  physical  environment  of  the  planet.  They  may  find
themselves  living  in  the  same  house  they  own  or  rent  now. A
person knows the house they live in on Earth, they know what is
in  that  house  and  so  after  the  death  of  the  material  body  they
simply  find  themselves  in  that  house.  But  if  someone  wants  a
better house and knows how to build with thought using the art of
visualization;  they  will  be  in  that  house  they  built  with  their
thought.
Everything you have and use in the material world is also a
product of thought. Look around you, everything you see started
as  an  idea  and  has  been  built  up  by  thought.  Houses,  cars,
computers, smart phones and all that are the outcome of thoughts.
But it takes time, money and hard work to build on a thought to
bring it into a three dimensional reality here on Earth. But this is
not the way it is in the Psychical Worlds; there thought creates –
immediately.  This  is  because  in  the  Psychical  Worlds  the
psychical substance is more malleable to our thoughts.
I  will  tell  you  a  corresponding  experience  I  had  in  the
Psychical  Worlds.  In  the  early  eighties,  I  designed  a  solar  earth
sheltered home of a unique design but it was never built. I loved
this design very much and always wanted to build it. So I was
retaining the desire to create it. Sometime later when I was in the
Psychical planes, I decided to build that house. And so I started
concentrating, visualizing that home and it immediately began to
take  form.  It  was  a  big  construction,  so  I  had  to  hold  my
concentration very steadily on the design without any distraction

for it to take shape.
And this reveals something else. Our unfulfilled desires we
hold on to go with us to the Psychical Worlds at night and when
we pass over. So if you had a strong desire to be a builder, an
artist, a dancer, or anything, and you were not able to accomplish it
on Earth, it will go with you when you enter the Psychical Worlds.
In the higher worlds it will be much easier for you to achieve such a
desire. Again, this is because the psychical substance takes form
more  easily  by  thought. But  you  must  have  the  skill  of
visualization.  Now  most  people  have  not  developed  this  skill
consciously while on Earth.
Daskalos had an advanced student that he never met in person
on Earth. The fellow passed over and one time Daskalos went to
see him in the Psychical Worlds. The man had built a beautiful
mansion on the other side; I believe Daskalos said it was built from
fine marble. The student announced it was Daskalos’ home he had
built it for him to live in when he passed over. Daskalos laughed
and said he was not in need of any house to live in on the other
side. Daskalos did not need a house to live in the psycho-Noetical
Worlds, but the common person still feels this need.
So what happens when a common person passes over? Do
they immediately have the skill of visualization? Can they build
their own homes? No of course not, it takes training. But on the
other side there are people there that teach the departed the skills
of visualization. Just like there are people here on Earth who teach
other people how to work as a carpenter, a computer programmer
or  a  scientist,  there  are  personalities  there  who  teach  the  new
arrivals the art of visualization if they are interested. They teach
them  how  to  visualize  and  formulate  psychical  substance  into
whatever they want and need.
The Psychical planes are very nice places to live, even in the
lower sub planes where there is less light. In the 49 sub planes
there are varying degrees of light and some find it more comfortable
in less light, others prefer being in environments with more light.
God in its absolute wisdom cares for everything and everyone. In
the sub planes we call hells the light is similar to the light on Earth

just after sunset. In all the planes and sub planes there is light,
beautiful  light,  peaceful  light;  blue  light,  emerald  green  light  and
golden light. As you ascend from the lower sub planes to higher
ones it gets lighter and brighter. In the paradises the light is full and
complete.
As we have said many times there are many hells and many
paradises in the worlds beyond Earth. But we also have conditional
hells and paradises that exist on Earth too. And these continue on
the other side. But no one will be placed into any hell or paradise
they  are  not  already  experiencing  on  Earth.  This  is  because we
build these conditional hells and paradises all the time with our
thoughts and emotions here and in the worlds beyond. There is no
judgment on us by God or an Archangel that puts us in a certain
sub plane of the Psychical Worlds. The departed automatically just
find themselves in an environment of one of the sub planes that is
most suitable and comfortable for them to live. It is our conditions,
our emotions, thoughts and desires that places us in the proper
place in the worlds beyond. And there is no obligation to stay on a
lower sub plane if one wants to leave.
Now the work of the Invisible Helpers in these worlds is to
show people in their hells the difference between two places, two
conditions of life so they can compare. They are shown a much
better place and way of living than the current conditions they are
in;  then  they  must  choose.  Unfortunately  very  few  decide  to
change because they get accustom to their hell and do not want to
leave  it. And  since  there  are  no  boundaries  between  hells  and
paradises, the hell of one person can be the paradise of another.
But that is the way it is here on Earth; some people enjoy
living in the back bayous and swamps; this is their paradise. But
take that swamp person to a formal White House dinner and it
would be a hell for them. Take a high level official from a formal
White House dinner and make him live in an inhospitable, snake
ridden swamp and that would be a hell for them.
As we said, there are helpers in the Psychical Worlds who try
to aid the new arrivals by teaching them about the conditions of life
there. Initially many people who cross over are in confusion. As

long as they remain on the material plane in their Psychical Body,
they might find themselves in their real material homeand this puts
them in great confusion. Because being in a Psychical Body, which
has higher more refined vibrations, they are now passing through
the  doors  of  their  material  house  without  opening  them.  They
cannot open them because the vibrations of their psychical hand
and body are much higher than the vibrations of physical materials
and this confuses them. Because most people have not made an
effort to study all these things, they have no basis to understand
what is really happening. Happily the Lords of Mercy try to take
the departed away from the material world that is causing them
this anxiety.
There is nothing in the material world that does not have a
psychical and Noetical counterpart. And so going away from the
material  plane  fully  into  the  Psychical  planes,  they  find  there
everything they left behind. That is because they have it in them,
in their heart and mind. Concerning our material possessions, we
often hear the old saying, “You can’t take it with you.” That is
true, but we don’t have to, because will automatically be there.
Now that psychical house has everything in it as they knew
on Earth and so it is more real for them. It has the same solidity as
their  Psychical  Body.  So  they  cannot  pass  through  doors  and
walls. Now they have to open the doors to go between rooms. If
they really understood the reality of their new conditions in the
Psychical Worlds they could pass through the walls if they wanted
to.  But  because  they  do  not  know  the  difference  between  the
material plane and the physical planes and its new conditions they
don’t even consider this a possibility.
They  never  studied  these  things  before  so  they  are  just
functioning in the Psychical Worlds in the same exact way as they
knew on Earth. But someone who knows they are on the psychical
planes  and  has  developed  the  skill  of  raising  and  lowering  their
vibrations can make the vibrations of their Psychical Body rarer
and pass through the doors and walls should they want to. But
everyone cannot do it. The Researchers of Truth in our system
who have done a lot of training can do it.

An Invisible Helper, who goes to the psychical planes, will
see beautiful environments in all the sub planes of the Psychical
Worlds. And they see people living in their shells. So to help, the
Invisible Helper has to enter the shell of someone they want to
help and then they will see different things. The Invisible Helper
will  see  the  exact  environment  that  person  has  made  for
themselves. It may be a hellish or heavenly environment or a bit of
both. Sometimes their shell environment correctly corresponds to
the psychical environment around them. And sometimes their shell
environment does not correspond at all.
A common person in the psychical planes lives in his own
world, his own version of the psychical planes. Since that person
has no understanding of conditions in the Psychical Worlds they
think  they  are  in  the  material  world.  He  still  thinks  water  will
drown  him;  if  he  wants  to  eat  he  creates  everything  he  needs.
Without knowing how, he is creating his food with his thoughts
and intentions. And if he has trouble focusing his thought enough
to do that, there are Archangels that help him do it. These are the
same Archangels that were working in his material body when he
was  on  Earth. And  so  these Archangels  stay  with  him  in  the
psychical  planes,  working  in  his  Psychical  Body  and  providing
things for him.
You can even see people in the lower psychical planes killing
animals, cooking them and eating them. But these animals are just
their Elementals of animals as they knew them on earth; which can
now  become  manifested  more  easily  in  the  Psychical  Worlds.
People there are just enjoying their life as they did on Earth. But all
of  this  is  only  occurring  in  their  shells.  We  have  spoken  about
these conditional shells many times. But have you ever wondered,
“How big are those shells?” They are boundless!
On the psychical planes can a person in one shell visit with
other people who are in their own shell? By other people I do not
mean an Elemental of other people they carry with them, which
can appear to them. Yes they can bring a person into their shell in
the same way as you invite a person into your home. A person in
one shell can accept a person in their shell if they both vibrate at a

similar rate of vibration. And this is true whether they knew each
other on Earth or not. We get new acquaintances in the Psychical
Worlds as we do in the material world. We find those we vibrate in
harmony with and can connect with them.
Because people only know the material world they think this
is the real world and the Psychical Worlds are abstract and less
substantial. But the opposite is true. The Psychical Worlds are
more  durable  than  the  material  world.  This  is  because  in  the
material  world  things  change  more  quickly  than  they  do  in  the
Psychical Worlds. In the material world if you take a flower and
put it in a vase, it can only last for less than a week, and then it
withers. But in the Psychical Worlds you can have a cut flower in a
vase and it will remain fresh and beautiful for an indefinite period
of  time.  This  makes  the  Psychical  Worlds  more  real  than  the
material world.
As a child Daskalos was able to self-consciously travel to the
Psychical Worlds, he had friends there he loved and they loved
him.  Daskalosalso  loved  weaving  personal  accounts  into  the
lessons to accent the teachings. And we all loved to hear his stories
too. He was a master storyteller bringing these teachings to life
with great enthusiasm.
“I had an experience”, he began once as he eased backward in
his chair, “of which I will tell you. It is my own experience. I was
six years of age and I was as self-conscious in the psychical plane
as  I  was  in  the  gross  material  plane.  I  had  a  friend  there,  a
Dominican  monk.”  The  monk  showed  the  boy  Daskalos,  a
beautiful  monastery  and  took  him  to  a  room  which  was  about
twice the size of the Stoa. It had arches and stained glass windows
like in the churches of Europe. There was a crucifix over the bed
with  an  altar  in  front  of  the  bed.  His  friend,  the  monk,  told
Daskalos this is your place, when you come here you can rest here
if you like.
Daskalos  had  noticed  that  outside  of  the  monastery  there
were beautiful fragrant Madonna Lilies, these are the six petal lilies
we have at Eastertime. He asked the monk if it would be ok to cut
one and put it in the vase on the altar in front of the Crucifix. The

monk started laughing and said: “If you want to do that you can,
no one will stop you. They belong as much to you as the others.”
So Daskalos got the lily and asked for a vase. The monk manifested
a nice emerald green vase full of water for him. He did this because
this  was  what  Daskalos  was  accustomed  to  on  Earth. And  so
Daskalos put the flowers in the vase. Now when Daskalos was
telling this story he was seventy-six years old and announced he
had gone to this room in the monastery recently. And he reported
that  flower  is  still  there  in  perfect  condition  after  70  years.
Changes  in  the  Psychical  Worlds  occur  when  your  disposition
changes. Life in the worlds beyond is very easy for those that want
to live that kind of life. There is no need for eating because the light
there is what nourishes and feeds you. And you have as much light
as you need according to your conditions.
And so you breathe the light, you do not need air to breath in
the higher worlds. You can imagine you are breathing air if you
want but it is not necessary. And actually it is the light you are
breathing but you think it is air. In time you will realize it is not
necessary to breathe. This means that if you want to go to the
bottom of a lake to see what is there, you can do it and stay there
as long as you like. You can do this only if you do not manifest the
fear that you will be drowned.
There are no lungs in your Psychical Body unless you want
them. But if you imagine your Psychical Body has lungs they will
be there, because you create them by your thought. It is the same
with the heart or any other organ. There is no heart mechanically
pumping blood, but if you feel you need to have it, you will have
it. If a common person imagines they have a cut on their arm and
expects to see blood coming out, they will see blood coming out.
To move on Earth we have to walk, take some form of ground
transportation  or  fly  if  you  want  to  travel  a  long  distance.
However,  all  that  is  not  necessary  for  travel  in  the  Psychical
Worlds. Does that mean there are no cars in the Psychical Worlds?
Yes there are wonderful cars in the Psychical Worlds if you want
them or need them. Some still need cars because they do not know
how to travel without them and in the lower sub planes you can

see people driving cars. But you do not need them, because by
clear  and  steady  concentration  on  a  place  you  want  to  go  or  a
person you want to see, you are there... or maybe we should say
they appear.
Most people who cross over just recreate what they knew on
earth, which seems natural to them. But when you get accustom to
the new conditions in these worlds you find out that planes, trains
and automobiles are not needed. And travel by concentrating on the
place you want to go will then seem more natural. Because in the
fourth dimensional world as we often say, the sense of measurable
space does not exist like on Earth. These are worlds of place and
not space, so to travel we concentrate on the place we want to be.
So  place  is  the  condition  you think  you  are  living  in.
Everything there is created by your thought. Now maybe you can
see  why  we  stress  the  importance  of  visualization.  When  you
achieve good skills of being able to visualize clearly and steadily,
you do not realize it yet, but it is like you are becoming wealthy.
In the worlds beyond, visualization means having. So it is best to
learn  it  now  before  crossing  over.  Virtually  everyone  on  Earth
would have preferred to be born into a very wealthy family. But if
you  pass  over  to  the  higher  worlds  with  a  developed  skill  of
visualization skill, it is like being born wealthy there.
Being able to visualize means you are mastering the light. But
you need practice over time. Truly the benefit of being able to
visualize  well  is  greater  than  getting  any  amount  of  money.
Material wealth does not mean a lot because you have no need of
currency when you pass over. But the skill of visualization travels
with you in to all the Worlds of Existence. It becomes yours; once
you get it, no person or thing can take it away like can happen
with material things. So it is very important for our life on earth
and in the worlds beyond that we learn to visualize.
To develop the skill of visualization it is fundamental that
you are able concentrate your mind well. Then you need to learn
the right meditations, which develop good visualization skills. And
with  meditation  and  visualization  you  enter  into  the  reality  of
things and not just your imagination or dreams. With the skill of

visualization  we  are  able  to  use  the  Mind  in  a  higher  way,  as
Creative  Thought,  which  is  very  powerful.  Thought  is  more
powerful in the worlds beyond and visualization is the way we can
harness the power of thought. It is important that we learn how to
visualize  the  colored  lights,  which  are  specific  frequencies  of
energies. So visualization gives us a means of using these energies
to help ourselves and other people.
Learning visualizations of light, colors and forms also leads
you towards Self-Realization. This is because, we first do it sub-
consciously,  then  Self-Consciously  and  one  day  Super-
Consciously. In the beginning you sub-consciously start to wonder
who I am that can do these visualizations and in time that line of
investigation  leads  to  Self-Realization.  Self-Realization  means  to
find your Self not just as a personality but as the Soul-Self and
then as the Spirit-Soul Self.
In the beginning many feel the Psychical Worlds is not real.
One  of  Daskalos’  Invisible  Helpers  told  him  one  day  that  the
Psychical Worlds did not seem as real to him as Earth. He said the
conditions and laws governing these worlds were so different than
on Earth. And Daskalos explained that if he had not known the
conditions  on  Earth  first  and  only  known  the  conditions  in  the
psychical planes, then he would find the conditions on Earth unreal
and the Psychical Worlds real. So it is that people are so acclimated
to the conditions on Earth, it makes them think the conditions in
the Psychical Worlds are less real.
After passing over after the death of the material body you
will  find  yourself  in  the  Psychical  Worlds  without  the  need  of
working to make money to live. None of the needs of the material
body are required for the Psychical Body. You do not need to care
for your Psychical Body by feeding it, washing it or taking it to the
doctor. Your Psychical Body does not get dirty unless you have
dirty emotions. So the work needed on the Psychical Body is only
to clean it from impure emotions. You can meet people there who
feel unhappy that they are not working. So what keeps people on
the psychical planes busy? They stay busy with their interests,
their desires and emotions. The Psychical Worlds are worlds of

emotions.  The  emotions  are  not  characteristics  of  the  material
world but of the Psychical Worlds. And so the personality of a
man or a woman feels more at home in the worlds of the emotions.
Whether a person knows it or not, they live in the Psychical
Worlds according to their interests and way of understanding. We
have to re-train our self, to think in a new way in the Psychical
Worlds; in order to live in harmony under the conditions and laws
governing this new level of reality.
Now you may have noticed this yourself. When you have a
dream most people just take what happens in the dream without
really thinking about it... they just accept it. This also happens for
people when their material body dies and they pass over. While
sleeping you may dream you are flying just with your body. But
you do not stop and think; how can my material body fly? Nor do
you think, oh since I am flying that means I am dreaming. You do
not become alert enough to make the connection that if you feel
you  are  flying  just  with  your  body,  you  are  no  longer  in  the
material world. Of course most people consider dreams as unreal.
However, dreams are real experiences you have in the Psychical
Worlds;  most  of  which  is  a  phenomena  associated  with  your
Psycho-Noetical  shell  formed  by  your  pre-existing  thoughts,
desires and emotions.
Yet sometime you may have a nightmare and wake up shaken
from what you have seen; that unsettling experience you consider
as unreal can linger and affect you for days. Whereas virtually all
your experiences you have when you are awake will not have such
lasting powerful effects. So which world is more real?On Earth as
we mature into an adult we have to train ourselves to use our mind
to correctly interpret the impressions coming to us through our
five senses and be able to use them to accomplish things. In the
Psychical Worlds, you have to train yourself in a similar way. And
in the Psychical Worlds you have more than five senses. There you
can more easily develop the so-called sixth sense of clairvoyance or
second sight.
Even  the  common  person,  over  the  course  of  time,  gets
accustom to the new conditions there and finds it more comfortable

than on Earth and feels much happier. Gradually they are feeling
more at home. Your life in the psychical planes can be longer or
shorter than the life you lived on Earth depending on how quickly
you assimilate your lessons and come out of your illusions. Earth
life is a world of shadows. Life in the psychical planes has much
more radiant light and yet it is still a world of shadows. Still higher
in the Noetical Worlds the light is even more glorious, but it too is
a world of shadows. So we have to go beyond these worlds to find
the light of the Spirit-Soul Self which causes all these shadows to
be cast. Then you will have passed through the worlds of shadows
and illusions to the reality behind them.
Comparing  your  personality-self  as  it  is  today  with  the
reality of the Spirit-Soul Self is like comparing a toddler to a rocket
scientist. There is a great, great difference. Just as we grow in the
material body, we have to grow in consciousness too until we come
to  the  Soul-Self-Consciousness  then  to  the  Spirit-Soul-Self-
Consciousness. So we have to develop our consciousness to these
higher states. Talking about these higher worlds you might get the
idea  that  they  are  so  different  it  is  like  they  are  some  distant
planet. But they are not. All these worlds exist in and around the
Earth. The reality is that the material, the Psychical and Noetical
Worlds are like different rooms in the same house. All are Worlds
of Existence but you have to get out of this multi-room house in
existence one day and enter the limitless realm of Beingness. Then
you will find out we do not need this multi-room house; all you
need is you – your real Self.

THE PRACTICE OVERVEIW
The  intention  of  a  Researcher  of  Truth  is  to  engage  in
meditations using the Mind in a proper way that produces self-
evident results. The ultimate aim of this is to continually raise their
consciousness to greater and greater heights; one day reaching Self-
Realization. Reaching this level we now know for certain we are
not what we thought we were. That is to say we are not our aging
material body. And we are not our personality with its Psychical
Body composed of our emotions, reactions and desires; we are not
the Noetical Body composed of thoughts.
How will we know that? We know that for sure because we
can check our emotions, thoughts; change them and master them.
By examining how we use the Mind in creating certain desires, we
can see that way too much of the time we are being a slave to our
desires, emotions and flawed conceptions. Once you start cleaning
and removing your lower and unnecessary emotions and thoughts;
it starts to dawn on you that you are not these, because you are
the  one  who  changes  and  removes  them.  Even  though  you  are
creating this entity you call your personality it is not you. So what
then  are  you?  Reaching  Self-Realization  are  you  still  the
personality? We can express our self as the personality but we can
also express as the Soul. We will not destroy our personality by
becoming Self-Realized. The personality is treasured by the Soul
and  cares  for  it,  lovingly,  patiently  guiding  it  through  all  our
incarnations until it is able to unite with the Soul-Self.
Examining  what  takes  place  in  your  Sub  Consciousness
composing  these  higher  bodies  you  can  see  what  is  happening,
know it, work on it and use it for your spiritual unfoldment. And
in  doing  that  you  are  automatically  raising  your  personality’s
consciousness to be able to know and enjoy these higher worlds.
And just as you can know and enjoy the natural world on Earth,
we can enjoy and know what the worlds of the higher dimensions
are like. The builders, the Archangels of the Elements have built all
the worlds; the material, psychical and Noetical. And in the worlds
beyond Earth you will be able to enjoy their creation better. There

you can better understand how they are working because you will
come into self-conscious contact with them.

THE PRACTICE: WORK IN THE HIGHER BODIES
Take deep and comfortable breaths.
Feel complete calmness in your material body and total peace in
your personality-self.
See sky-blue light shining all around you.
The light is not absolutely sky-blue but it is not completely white.
Do not try to give this light a certain colour of blue, just see it as it
is.
It is more white than sky-blue, but not exactly white.
Breathe in this radiant light and slowly see your body filled with this
beautiful light.
We are now more in our Psychical Body and less in our material
body.
This  sky-blue-white  light  tends  to  calm  down  the  psychical
substance and makes it a good instrument in the hands of our
personality-self. Wish that while you are in this light, you will slowly
grow calmer and calmer.
Thousands of unnecessary thoughts are turned over in your mind
every moment.
Cast these thoughts off and clean your mind.
Feel that you are alone in this light. Pay attention to this detail.
Feel that you are alone in this light, without any disturbing thoughts
or emotions.
Take deep breaths and mentally wish that peace reign in your
Psychical Body.
The blessings of the Beloved Christ are with you, your family and
the whole world.
Slow  down  your  vibration  and  slowly-slowly  start  to  feel  your
material body again.

Chapter Eighteen
WHAT CHANGES IS NOT REAL
 
In studying Life we have to see two things – the Everlasting Life,
which is the Absolute Infinite Be-ness and, also, Life manifested,
becoming the Absolute Infinite Beingness. So, now I have Life
manifested. What the Absolute Infinite Life is, no human intelligence
can understand, except that it is everlasting. That is the only thing
we can know. Though, we as the Life, as Spirit-Beings, we
understand ourselves by reflection, by the image we are casting in
the mirrors in the Worlds of Existence. So, as human beings we
belong to the Worlds of Existence. As Divine Gods, we are in the
Absolute Infinite Be-ness as a Spirit-Being. We are in the Absolute
Infinite Beingness as a Soul reflecting a shadow on the Worlds of
Existence which is the human being. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
In truth, what changes is not real and what is real does not
change. Absolute Beingness, God has within Itself a multiplicity of
changeless, eternal Spirit Beings, like individual cells in one body.
A way to think about the plurality of God as the Absolute Infinite
Reality is in a comparison to the ocean. If we consider God to be
like the ocean, then all the phenomena of life are like drops in that
ocean. Life is everything and there is no part of the universes that
does not have life. Likewise there is no part in existence that is not
the  Absolute  Beingness.  This  is  the  Omnipresence  of  God.
Absolute  Beingness  is  Life  and  so  we  see  life  in  all  parts  of
Absolute  Beingness  –  God.  These  parts  we  are  calling  the
phenomena of life and they can be found in different dimensions
but always in a form. We all see the phenomena of life on Earth in
the plants, animals and trees. But many more phenomena of life
exist in the higher planes of reality that are invisible to us now.
They exist in all the Psychical Worlds and up to the lower Noetical
Worlds. These are worlds of living forms too, but take notice...it is
not  the form that brings forth the phenomena of life, it is Life
itself  that  brings  forth  all  the  countlessphenomena  of  life.  All
theseforms of life are expressions of love, energy and movement in
a specific form.
All life-forms are expressions of the Archetypal Ideas which
are in the Divine Plan of the Absolute Be-ness – God. And the
Human Form is one of those archetypes. Seven billion people live
on Earth now, and the bodies of these people all have the same
composition. All  these  bodies  have  movements  in  the  muscular
system and in the nervous system. The organs in our body all have
very harmonious movement serving an important purpose. We see
it in the circulation of the blood, the movement of the air in and out
of the lungs.
There is an advanced meditation called Harmony and Beauty
where  Daskalos  relays  a  teaching  from  an  Archangel  on  this
subject. In this meditation, the Archangel speaks of how beautiful
it is to see the harmonious movements of our breathing and the

circulation of our blood. And that we cannot conceive of beauty
without harmony. So we have harmony and movement within all
the organs of our human body. The form of the human body is in
the Archetypal Idea – the Idea of Man. And our body is under the
care of the Holy Spirit and it has a life of its own. But now we see
another expression in the material body and this is the personality.
And as we said before, our personality is a composition of all the
Elementals we harbor and express.
Now  in  studying  the  nature  of  our  own  Elementals,  and
others, we see that 80% of them are created with mostly emotions
as feelings and desires. And they can receive so much energy from
a person that they gain enough strength to crush their personality.
Psychology calls these kinds; phobias, fixed ideas and obsessive
compulsive   disorders   (OCDs).   Psychiatrists   and   drug
manufactures give these afflictions names without knowing their
nature  or  how  to  really  deal  with  them.  In  today’s  world,
pharmaceutical companies identify an ever expanding number of
these kinds of disorders. And in their advertisements, they offer an
ever expanding number of drugs to treat but not cure the disorders
they identify. And all this sets precedence in the people’s minds to
seek  pharmaceuticals  for  maintaining  control  of  psychological
afflictions many of which could be better resolved by the methods
Daskalos taught. And most of these legal drugs come with a list of
potential side effects that is as long as your arm; many of which
are  far  worse  than  the  problem  the  drug  is  designed  to  treat.
Recently a big, profitable drug manufacturer introduced yet another
pill, a drug for the Shopaholic, people who shop excessively and
cannot seem to stop. These kinds of psychological afflictions are
driven by the Elementals which are not dissolved and eliminated by
the drugs; their effects are only dampened by the drug and can
immediately return when the person stops taking the drug.
Unfortunately  too  many  of  the  Elementals  created  are  the
human  in  nature  demons  that  are  destructive,  misleading  or
illusionary. Maybe only 1/5 of all the created Elementals are the
human in nature Angels. This is because most of the Elementals are
created out of human weaknesses as desires and attachments. This

is the reason behind Buddha’s Nobel Truths. Buddha’s first noble
truth is that all life is suffering. The second noble truth is that the
cause of our suffering is our own attachments. That is true and we
can see that our own personal attachments are to our strongest
desires. Our strongest attachments are enslaving us to desires for
property, money, people, places, things, and experiences, which
causesuffering. Even if you manage to get all the objects of your
desire, you will still end up suffering to some degree. Because all
those desire objects belong to the constantly changing Worlds of
Existence and so in time, they too will pass away. And so the
enlightened Buddha rightly gave the top priority to detachment as
a means of reducing our suffering.
Now the Elementals work in two distinct ways. Regardless of
an Elemental’s normal size, it starts as a mass no bigger that a grain
of course salt. It gets projected out of a man or woman from the
area of the third eye; then gets its normal size, does its work, and
then  returns  back  to  the  one  who  projected  it.  Now  it  again
assumes the size of a grain of salt and it re-enters that person,
bringing along seven other Elementals similar to its nature. This
reveals that we are infected and influenced by the Elementals we
create  and  project.  But  it  also  means  we  can  be  infected  and
influenced by Elementals of a similar nature as our own Elementals
that come from the environment around us.
One  way  Elementals  can  influence  us  is  directly.  Directly
means  the  Elemental  can  stimulate  us  to  think  and  take  direct
action  on  how  to  accomplish  the  specific  desire  for  which  the
Elemental was created. The second way they can influence us is
indirectly.  Indirectly  they  command  power  and  can  bring  about
circumstances  that  will  deliver  your  desire  – if  you  leave  them
alone  to  do  their  work.  Sooner  or  later  all  desires  tend  to  be
fulfilled.
You hear this all the time and may have noticed it yourself;
that when someone has an ardent desire for something and broods
over it for months and months it seldom comes to them. But when
you  have  forgotten  about  the  object  of  your  desire,  became
interested in something else, then the desire tends to be fulfilled. So

therein rests a secret. People have the feeling that when they stop
wanting something, it is then that it comes to them. And that is
true because “stop wanting” means they leave the Elemental time
to do its work. But if you keep on thinking about and desiring it
you pull that Elemental back to you over and over by remembering
it again. So for a good constructive Elementalto be successful you
must stop thinking about your Elemental once you have created it,
so  it  will  have  time  to  accomplish  its  work. And  remember  an
Elemental can live much longer than a person’s lifetime. We create
so many desire type Elementals that it is not possible to fulfill
them all in a single life time. So over the course of lifetimes we can
see that many such Elementals created in past lifetimes are being
fulfilled in future lifetimes.
Now here is the real problem with that process. When you
start  to  consciously  develop  yourself  spiritually,  you  may  no
longer be interested in your desires from previous lifetimes. You
may  outgrow  certain  old  desires  as  you  unfold  spiritually.
Moreover, the strongest unfulfilled desire of a previous lifetime
may well be the strongest obstacle to your spiritual progress in
your current lifetime. And you may rightly think that you would
be better off without this desire in this lifetime. But it was you
who created that strong desire in the past. This is one of the most
common reasons why people are, rich, poor, healthy, unhealthy,
happy or unhappy in their current lifetime. It is a direct outcome
OF the Elementals that comprised their personality in past and
current incarnations.
We  have  talked  about  incarnation,  dis-incarnation  and
reincarnation  –  but  who  is  it  that  gets  re-incarnated.  Is  it  your
personality that is reincarnating? For example, if you were named
John in a past incarnation and in the next incarnation you are born
in a different country with the name Marco. Does that mean John
re-incarnated  as  Marco?  No.  Is  your  personality  from  this
incarnation, going to incarnate again in a different country, under
different circumstances and be called a new name? In other words,
is that new personality in a future lifetime the same personality
you are today? No.

However,  if  in  this  incarnation  you  can  raise  your
consciousness  to  that  of  the  Spirit-Soul  in  full  Self-Realization,
then yes those past incarnations are yours and future incarnations
are yours. Not yours as a personality but yours as a Spirit-Soul.
Incarnations  can  be  compared  to  chapters  in  a  book.  The  first
chapter in a book is not second, third or any other chapter in the
book. Yet the book itself can say all the chapters are mine. In the
same  way  we,  as  a  Spirit-Soul,  can  rightly  claim  that  all  the
incarnations are ours. But the personality in one lifetime cannot
rightly claim to be another personality in a different lifetime. So
what happens to all our personalities from past lifetimes? They
have become like living holographic records forever in the Cosmic
Consciousness. Also in the East there is a mistaken belief that a
human can reincarnate as an animal and an animal can reincarnate as
a human. This notion is wrong; for sure there is no transmigration
of a Soul between animals and humans. This is because there is a
completely different course of development for man than there is
for  animals.  So  these  are  the  main  differences  between  the
Researchers  of  Truth’s  understandings  and  experiences  of
reincarnation  compared  to  the  popularized  ideas  about
reincarnation.
What then is the relationship between our past incarnations
and  our  current  incarnation?  Karma!  Not  in  the  absolute  sense,
because in each new lifetime we start with mostly a clean slate so
that  we  are  given  a  chance  lay  down  past  burdens  and  move
forward more freely. However, about 20% of our Karma is carried
over from past lifetimes while the other 80%, we create in this
lifetime. But in any of your lifetimes there is part of your Selfhood
that stands between your current personality and the Soul. That
in-between thing is what we call the Permanent Personality, which
is  the  Soul  in  expression  in  the  Worlds  of  Existence.  The
Permanent Personality knows everything. It is the expressive part
of the Soul but at the same time it contains the correctly distilled
essence of all our past incarnations. And So it brings forward to
each newly incarnated personality theimportant lessons that have
not been learned in past incarnations. This is showing us that what

we are calling Karma is not a punishment; Karma is a means of
learning, knowing and advancing spiritually.
The reality is that we lived in past lifetimes, we are living now
and  we  will  live  again  in  a  future  lifetime.  So  why  do  we  not
remember the past ones? This is because our personality in this
lifetime  is  focused  outside  of  itself  most  of  the  time.  The
personality is currently centered on its own interests of the current
lifetime and so it forgets the past. This loss of past life memory is
also the mercy of God, so as not to remember past mistakes and
serious wrongs. This gives the current personality the freedom to
concentrate  on  the  road  ahead  and  make  better  steps  in  their
current lifetime. We will start remembering past incarnations when
that remembrance, good or bad, will not harm, delay or distract us
from our purpose in our current lifetime. And that automatically
happens when we place our personality in the loving hands of the
Spirit-Soul Self. Then past memories will come flooding back in to
us. So we must not blame the mercy of God just because we do not
remember  our  past  lifetimes.  And  just  because  you  do  not
remember past lives does not mean you did not live before. Just
because  you  cannot  remember  what  you  had  for  dinner  last
Wednesday does not mean you did not eat last Wednesday.
In order to remember, we have to unfold our personality into
its real Divine Nature. And that is a really big gain. In this you will
also gain powers. Now as a personality you are weak, but as a
Spirit-Soul you are a god. And a god is powerful. Your gain is the
real Self-Consciousness; you become the master of your emotions,
thoughts and life. Now you have reached a much higher vantage
point  above  the  personality’s  self-consciousness.  So  now,  you
might even laugh at how before you took the behaviors of your
personality as so very real. When Daskalos was a small child he
made this statement to his father and he repeated it all his life. It
was: “Nothing matters much, and most things do not matter at all.”
Daskalos said his father was not really able to comprehend him and
his  abilities  as  a  child.  But  he  did  seem  to  understand  this
statement, wrote it down and took it to heart.
Now we all have to learn our lessons in life and there are two

ways to do that. One way is by reason, to think before we act and
then act with reason. The second way Daskalos called the whip of
destiny, which is the hard and painful way. Both ways will take
you to the same result. But your experience along the way will be
totally different depending on which of these ways you get your
lesson. With the whip of destiny; when you disturb the balance of
the universal laws you suffer, physically, emotionally, mentally or
in some combination of the theseas these laws are brought back
into balance.
But who is it that suffers? Is it your Spirit-Soul? No, your
Spirit-Soul Self never suffers for your personality’s mistakes. It is
always  your  personality  self  that  pays  off  the  karmic  debt  by
suffering. In the East they call this way Karma Yoga. But maybe
we should call this way, Trial and Error Yoga for that is what it is.
Whatever you call it, definitely it is the longest and hardest way to
progress in life.
Again it is our own Elementals that are driving this process.
And once an Elemental fulfills its purpose it gets de-energized and
returns  to  the  Cosmic  Consciousness.  Or  if  we  ourselves  de-
energize the Elemental before it fulfills its purpose, it leaves and
returns to the Cosmic Consciousness too. However if it is a serious
Elemental and we are unable to de-energize it, then sometimes, but
very seldom your Guarding Angel will de-energize it for you. But
in this case if he does do it, then prepare yourself for a painful
sting  of  consciousness.  On  rare  occasions  your  Guardian Angel
gives you a kind of slap to wake you up to a serious mistake you
are  committing.  He  does  this  out  of  love,  so  you  will  not
mindlessly keep repeating the same mistakes and keep reaping the
same undesirable consequences time and time again.
Human beings can and should help each other and that is the
work of a certain order of Researchers of Truth called the Brothers
of Mercy. These compassionate human beings are helping others
regain their Divine inheritance. This is the reason all enlightened
masters in the past have come; it is why they are here now and
why  they  will  always  keep  coming. And  following  their  great
guidance we can understand something of the Common Selfhood of

human kind.
It begins to dawn on us that we are in everyone and everyone
is in us. If one person on Earth is suffering we all are suffering to a
degree. And  don’t  you  feel  a  degree  of  suffering  when  you  see
man’s inhumanity to man? When you see the human loss from
natural  disasters  or  when  you  see  the  pain,  injuries  and  death
caused by the world conflicts on the TV news, doesn’t a part of
you  suffer?  This  is  a  small  indicator  pointing  to  the  Common
Selfhood  of  us  all.  Being  a  cell  in  the  Common  Selfhood  of
humanity, we should never criticize others because in this regard
everyone is us. Please don’t look upon difficult people in your life
as transgressing sinners. But if you feel their transgression is in
some  way  similar  as  your  own,  then  you  are  approaching  the
Common Selfhood of humankind.
Now we have given much information on the Elementals, the
good, the bad and the useless. And you know the destructive ones
in us and others can cause much harm. But also harmful Elementals
can reside in places and cause trouble there too. There are certain
intersections  in  cities  where  there  are  way  more  accidents  than
other locations. Sometimes this can be from a poor road design but
still,  frightening  Elementals  can  become  associated  with  these
locations  and  continue  to  cause  accidents. Also  locations  where
violent crimes have been committed the Elementals of the incident
can stay there.
What happens when someone passes through such a place?
Do the destructive Elementals attack everyone? No. If you are a
good  and  loving  person  with  a  pure  heart  you  can  safely  pass
through  a  massive  assembly  of  destructive  Elementals  and  they
will not even try to harm you. A clairvoyant will see them part and
move away as a strong good-hearted person passes through. Then
later after the person is gone, they move right back.
However  if  you  have  similar  vibrations  as  the  destructive
Elementals  or  if  you  quarrel  and  have  ill  will  and  try  passing
through that area; then those very same Elementals will attack you
and can cause an accident. Why? This is because of the principle
that evil attacks evils. Of course this is a reason why Christ said:

do not resist or fight evil. And by complaining against others and
fighting, you are also creating poison in your own material body.
And harmful Elementals harbored and expressed become part of
your  personality-self,  define  your  character  and  delineate  your
destiny.
So if you have a loving heart and a pure mind, you never need
to  be  concerned  about  any  harmful  Elemental.  But  if  you  are
vibrating  in  similar  way  as  negative  Elementals,  your  own
negativity is causing a kind of punishment, a negative consequence,
to come to you. So it is our own actions that bring this kind of self-
punishment  to  us.  Now  keep  in  mind  never  will  God  or  any
Archangel punish; Archangels do not even know evil, they only
know love. Since God is omnipresent, equally present everywhere
and in all human beings, if he did punish that would make him a
Self-Punishing  God  –  a  Supreme  masochist.  God  is  not  a
masochist, God is most merciful.
As we move through our daily environment we travel in a sea
of  good  and  bad  Elementals.  So  it  is  helpful  to  have  a  shield
guarding us from evil Elementals in the common environment, sent
to  you  by  others  or  coming  to  you  from  your  own  sub-
consciousness. What is the best shield of protection? It is a pure
and loving heart. We can ask for protection from others, from the
Archangels or God and this is good. But it is also absolutely vital
that we participate in our own protection.

THE PRATICE: OVERVIEW
We can observe all around us that the Total Wisdom of God
has provided protection for all the animal and plant life. If you
look at all the different cacti, it is easy to see that it has its own
protection. It needs protection from the birds and other animals. So
cacti develop a very effective system of protective thorns. Turtles
have  their  shells  for  protection,  rabbits  have  their  swiftness.
Chameleons can change the color of their skin to blend into their
environment and that is their protection. In nature every living life
form has its own kind of protection. But who decides all that? It is
the Total Wisdom of God.
What about the human beings are they as protected as the
other animals? Yes. We have our vital organs protected by our rib
cage and a most important organ, the brain, is well protected by
our skull. But the greatest protection the Total Wisdom has given
human  beings  is  the  right  and  ability  to  use  the  Mind.  In  their
rudimentary use of the Mind, the first cavemen and cavewomen
fashioned clubs and spears to protect themselves from the wild
animals all around them. Since that time man has been using the
Mind to devise all kinds of protections. Now we come to another
way for us to use the Mind to protect ourselves from harmful
Elementals.  We  will  not  gain  any  protection  from  negative  and
destructive Elementals by being afraid of them. But we do gain
protection by being clean. No negative Elemental can harm anyone
who is not vibrating in a similar way to them. Vibrating similar
means a person is harboring or expressing similar negative desires,
emotions  or  thoughts.  But  if  we  have  good  clean  thoughts  and
emotions  we  will  not  attract  harmful  Elementals  coming  from
others orfrom our own Sub Consciousness. In this way we protect
ourselves.
So from now on we will learn to send Elementals that work as
little  guardian  Angels  and  protective  servants  of  good.  Once
humans learn how to create these kinds of Elementals with Faith,
they will have powerful protection. We can also protect ourselves
by de-energizing negative Elementals, which is done by completely

withdrawing our attention from them. Knowing how to create long
lasting shield Elementals; we can protect our family, friends and
our self. With this practice we are using the Mind to create our
own protection.
Each day we receive Etheric Vitality from breathing, eating
and drinking but we can also draw this vitality directly and use it
to  consciously  form  it  through  visualization  into  a  benevolent
protective Elemental. You can do this practice every morning or
whenever you feel the need. For this we create a protective shield
Elemental in the form of a triangle made of pure white light.

THE PRACTICE: CREATING OUR PROTECTIVE
SHIELD
Relax your material body and feel it is completely calm.
Quiet your emotions and still your thoughts and feel at peace.
Concentrate in your feet and feel that you are in both feet.
Move up to your knees. You feel your knees fully.
Now move up to your solar plexus and concentrate your attention
in this center.
Breathe deeply and as you inhale see a beautiful sky blue light glow
from within your solar plexus.
See and feel this energetic light spread throughout your body.
Now move up to your chest. See and feel a radiant rosy light
emanating from your Heart Center.
You only feel love in your heart, love for yourself and love for all
human beings.
Move up to your head and see a luminous golden sun radiating in
and around your head.
The Etheric Double of your entire body is glistening in pure white
light.
Above each shoulder in your Etheric Double there aretwo powerful
centers of energy.
And we will use the energy from these two centers to shape a three-
dimensional snow white triangle pointing downward.
The upper horizontal line of the triangle is above the shoulders and
extends about six inches off each shoulder and passes through the
thyroid gland in your throat.
From the two centers above the shoulder, visualize two lines of
pure white light descend downward below the genitals and meet to
form an equal sided triangle pointing downward.
The chest and pelvic area are inside the triangle but the hips are
outside of the triangle.
See everything three dimensionally. See your shoulders and back

inside the triangle of light.
Take  deep  comfortable  breaths  filling  your  chest  with  Etheric
Vitality.
Then as you slowly exhale, feel the air leave your lungs while your
body retains the Etheric Vitality.
Inhale again and now see the white light of the triangle enter and
spread throughout your chest area.
Repeat  this  part  a  few  times  increasing  the  amount  of  Etheric
Vitality each time.
Do not dissolve the triangle; keep it there as a living shield of
protection.
At any time you like you can concentrate to see and feel it again.
Each time you do this exercise it will become stronger and brighter.

Chapter Nineteen
POSSIBILITIES, PROBABILITIES& THE
PLAN
 
All manifestations of Life are governed by the Total Wisdom and
the Almightiness and we understand this by studying the Circles of
Possibilities of all living forms. No living form can escape from its
Circle of Possibilities and jump to another Circle of Possibilities.
This is definite. Any mystic who knows the great law of the Circle of
Possibilities from their deep meditation, observation and
concentration knows the truth about it. And there is no greater
blasphemy than the Darwinian Theory that says we jump from a
state of animal life to another state. This is definite. The Divine
Absolute Beingness, God, rules His universes in steady laws. Man
was always man and will always be a man. He has never been an
animal and will never be an animal. So, this theory is dropped. ~
Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
Observing everything from a one celled organism, to a great
whale, to a solar system or an entire galaxy we find perfect order
and balance. Everything has order and balance. And we see that all
the phenomena of life, all living forms of life, strictly obey the
great law of the Circle of Possibilities for its kind of life. And we
see that no life form can escape its Circle of Possibilities, which
contains Divine intelligence as Total Wisdom. And it is this Total
Wisdom that defines the cycle of existence for any given form of
life.
All Circles of Possibilities are governed by the Divine Plan
and worked on by the Archangelic Orders. And they do this, by
working  on  all  the  points  of  a  Circle  of  Possibilities
simultaneously. They can work on all the points at the same time
because they work on them in the Eternal Now and not in a linear
way from the past, to the present and into the future. And they
also  do  this  great  work  at  the  same  time  for  each  and  every
kingdom – the mineral, plant, animal and human kingdoms. This is
only possible because of the state of Super Consciousness enjoyed
by all the Archangelic Orders.
Although  nothing  can  escape  its  particular  Circle  of
Possibilities, we do see each living form change in its appearance
but it is not changing its nature. An ape is born in the infant form
of an ape, and that form changes in its appearance growing into a
young ape, an adult ape, an old ape and then the ape’s body dies.
So we see a change in the outer form of an ape but not in the nature
of the ape. An ape always remains an ape.
And this was Darwin’s mistake. He saw evidence of what he
called evolution within certain species. Darwin saw adaptations in
the finches on the Galapagos Islandsand then theorized that man
and apes could have “evolved” from a common primate ancestor.
But even Darwin said his idea could only be considered a theory
unless the so-called “missing link” was found that connected man
and apes. That missing link has never been found.
Science  had  long  been  musing  over  the  idea  of  biological

evolutionbefore Darwin published his famous book “The Origin of
Species.”  In  fact,  another  scientist  working  in  Indonesia  named
Alfred Wallace had actually come up with the idea independently
and before Darwin. He and Darwin exchanged letters about it and
then  in  1858  Wallace  sent  his  complete  theory  of  evolution  to
Darwin.  One  year  later  Darwin  publishes  “his”  theory  of
evolution. Darwin becomes rich and famous, Wallace does not and
we end up with the mistaken notion that somehow there has been a
transmigration of a human Soul from the body of apes into the
body of a human.
What Wallace and Darwin correctly observed was a physical
adaptation of animal’s bodies to their changing environment. But
neither Wallace nor Darwin had knowledge of the changes in the
cranial  capacity  of  early  hominids  or  their  chronology.  Darwin
used  the  term  “Natural  Selection”  to  explain  his  idea  that  man
could have evolved from some common ancestor with the ape. This
was a total theoretical jump, to a conclusion that was not based on
any  actual  primate  studies  or  hard  evidence.  Also,  Wallace
disagreed with Darwin’s notion of Natural Selection to explain the
origins of humans. Wallace saw it from a spiritual standpoint. He
believed  that  the  “unseen  creative  Spirit  interceded”  to  initially
create the animal life on the earth and then later interceded to create
humans.
Prior  to  modern  man,  there  were  as  many  as  two-dozen
species of hominids, sometimes with two or three different species
living together in the same place. Hominids are a family of different
primates. The theory of evolution proposes that these primordial
species  lived  for  something  like  6  million  years  without  much
change. And  then  about  50,000  years  ago  their  brain  abruptly
exploded in size and quality producing early man. And this cannot
be explained by a slow evolutionary development because the brain
would have had to triple in size in a short period of time.
Even logically, the theory of man and Apes having a common
ancestry does not make a lot of sense. The early hominids were
covered in thick mats of hair to protect themselves from the harsh
weather and environment. Now the theory of evolution states that

all of a sudden, these fury forerunners of man lost virtually all of
their protective hair; they grew a big brain and were able to think
abstractly. And a brand new gene (FOXP2) appeared that allowed
for the development of language. The early primates did not have
this language gene. Then immediately these early humans had to
start  killing  animals  in  order  to  wear  the  fur  to  protect  man’s
hairless  body  from  the  cold;  so  that  part  sounds  more  like
devolution.
Now all this rapid development of the cranial capacity 50,000
years ago is called the “big bang of the brain,” and it took 40,000
more years before humans starting using stone tools, fire and the
wheel. 10,000 years after that, the Printing press was invented. In
the last 100 years humankind has gone from the first Model T
automobile  to  a  tsunami  of  high  tech  innovations  that  define
modern  life  today.  And  this  is  just  the  beginning  of  how
technology  will  be  impacting  our  lives;  because  the  amount  of
technological information now doubles every two years. Based on
that  exponential  growth,  can  you  imagine  all  the  technological
changes  that  will  come  to  shape  your  way  of  life  in  the  next
twenty years? No ape has or ever will be able to change their way
of life, let alone advance at such an exponential rate. Clearly, man is
a separate creation from Apes.
If Darwin’s theory had been true, we would see at least some
evidence of this as primates giving birth to a human or giving birth
to a part human part primate. But this has never happened and it
never  will. An  ape always gives birth to another ape. A human
only begets another human; a lion only gives birth to another lion
and so on. Also, apes and all other animals today behave exactly as
they have for thousands and thousands of years. We do not see
any  evolution  in  the  animal’s  nature  or  even  a  change  in  their
behavior in the wild. In captivity we can see that man can train
animals to do many things. But if you put a trained animal back in
the wild it has been observed that they stop the trained behavior
within three months.
In studying the Circle of Possibilities for any form of life we
can understand its development. Take, for example, the seed of a

giant Sequoia tree, which is similar to a cucumber seed in look and
size. But the cucumber seed produces a vine that only creeps along
the ground and produces cucumbers while living only one summer.
Whereas a Sequoia seed of similar size, produces a tree over 300
feet tall with a 50 foot diameter that contains enough wood to build
over 300 houses and it can live for 3500 years. Why do we get
such  different  results  from  seeds  of  the  same  size? All  this  is
governed by the Circle of Possibilities that is coded into each seed.
If you plant an apple tree seed, it will never produce an orange
tree. The Circle of Possibilities for any form of life is fixed and
immutable.
And it is the same for animals; each form of animal life must
obey its particular Circle of Possibilities which is a permanent law.
Some duck eggs are so similar to chicken eggs that you cannot tell
them apart. And if you take a duck egg and put it in the nest of a
chicken with chicken eggs, the chicken will keep it warm until it
hatches. If it is close to water when it hatches, the baby duck will
run towards the water and swim. But the baby chickens will stay
away from the water. Who taught that baby duck to go to the
water and swim? All that information about the life of a duck is
encoded within the Circle of Possibilities for a duck. It does not
matter  if  the  duck  was  raised  by  chickens  or  not. A  duck  will
always behave as a duck according to the Circle of Possibilities for
its form of life.
What about human beings do we have a seed coded with the
Circle of Possibilities for a human being? Yes. To a mystic it is
known as the Permanent Atom, which resides at the location of the
etheric heart. And this contains the coded information concerning
the  Circle  of  Possibilities  for  our  incarnation.  But  also  our
thoughts, desires, words and actions that have created good and
bad karmic influencesare stored perfectly in our Permanent Atom.
So  in  each  new  incarnation  we  carry  the  Karma  from  previous
incarnations  coded  in  this  Permanent  Atom  as  inclinations,
predispositions, talents, and interests both good and bad. These
influence the new personality and its life in its next incarnation.
But there exists a point in our consciousness, where we can

accept or reject these past life influences. In each new lifetime we
are given the opportunity to succumb to negative past influences
and create more karmic influences of a similar nature and thus we
keep encountering the same consequences. Or we can strengthen
the  preexisting  positive  influences  in  us  and  build  a  better  and
better life. The choice to sow the good seeds or to sow the bad
seeds is ours to make and the results are ours to reap.
For  a  human  being  the  Circle  of  Possibilities  starts  as  a
spermatozoon, then conception, then a few cells growing in the
womb, doubling and doubling until they become an embryo. The
embryo grows in the mother and then is born as a baby boy or girl.
The child grows into an adolescent, then a young man or woman
then  grows  old  and  their  material  body  dies  and  they,  as  self-
awareness,  pass  over. And  the  Circle  of  Possibilities  for  their
material existence in this lifetime comes to an end. But then their
life continues at a higher level of existence in the Psychical Worlds.
After completing the Circle of Possibilities for our material
life, we continue on fulfilling the Circle of Possibilities for a human
being in the Psychical and Noetical Worlds. In these worlds, we
continue our life in a Psychical and Noetical Body. Our material
body we find readymade for us and it has been built up perfectly
by the Archangels, we need to do very little for our body except
feed it and wash it. However, our Psychical Body is the body of
our emotions, and it is not perfectly made ready for us. What is
provided  for  us  is  the  psychical  substance,  which  we  are
unknowingly shaping and misshaping all the time by the emotions
and desires we harbor and express.
Now this is a point where our Guardian Archangel helps. He
is  holding  for  us  the  perfect  archetype  of  our  Psychical  and
Noetical Body. He holds it as a blueprint we can use to learn to
shape our Psychical Body to the perfect model he holds for us.
What does that mean? Once you start to become conscious of the
dialogue that is already going on between you and your Guardian,
you  start  to  learn  many  important  things.  He  teaches  you
unconditional love by the way he unconditionally loves and cares
for you. Humans think they know what love is but most do not.

They mistake love by reflection, which is conditional, to be real
love which is unconditional. Love by reflection means you love
someone only because they love you. But what happens when that
person sees something in you they do not like? Then they may
criticize  you,  find  faults  in  you  and  complain.  Now  when  this
happens, the all too common response is for the other person to
complain  and  argue  back  with  the  faultfinding  person  and  they
both polarize against each other. Now their love by reflection has
been overshadowed by dislike by reflection. If left to continue in
this way it can lead to both people hating each other. And what is
hatred really? As Daskalos explained, “hatred is wounded love.” So
if  you  are  faced  with  such  an  experience  and you  feel  like
complaining about it, remember the forth promise of a Researcher
of Truth: “To endure patiently, without complaining, all forms of
trials and tribulations the most wise Divine Law may bestow on
me.”
But this promise does not mean we lie down and become a
helpless victim to the abuse of other people. This promise does
not mean we must stay stuck in unhealthy conditions or that we
should not make the effort to improve the situation and in some
cases transcend it completely. This promise is about self-mastery.
This means we have mastery over our thoughts, words, desires and
actions; thereby enabling us to withstand and successfully pass
through  any  kind  of  difficulty. And  by  applying  the  sixth  and
seventh promise we learn this mastery.
This self-mastery is part of the Circle of Possibilities for a
human being. At this point in your development, you are not the
master of your three bodies: the material body and your actions,
the Psychical Body of your emotions, desires and motivations and
the Noetical Body of your thoughts and intentions. However, it is
in the Divine Plan for us to master our personality in order to
assimilate  it  withthe  Divine  Nature.  With  the  exercises  of
concentration  and  meditation  we  start  practicing  to  become  not
only the masters of our own mind, but also masters of the Super-
Substance of The Mind. This is the possibility of every human
being,  but  every  human  being  must  first  unfold  his  or  her  self

within God. No ape can do this. No animal ever considered itself a
god or an offspring of God.
Animals do not have a Soul but human beings do. And there is
absolutely no transmigration of a human Soul into the body of an
animal as some eastern schools have imagined. Even though the
genetic makeup of a human body is very close to the material body
of  certain  primates,  a  human  being  is  much,  much  more  than  a
material body. Our body is ours to live in and express ourselves
through. Our body is ours but our body is not us... we are not the
material body we inhabit. Christ confirmed this when he said: “Do
not fear those who can kill your body, they cannot touch your
Soul.”
The  full  Circle  of  Possibilities  for  a  human  being  is  much
longer than the life of the material body. After passing over from
our  material  incarnation  we  will  find  ourselves  with  the  same
feelings, thoughts and way of living we had just before passing
over. All these create a vibration that automatically places us in the
exact sub-plane of the Psychical Worlds that we are in harmony
with.  In  the  Psychical  Planes  we  continue  our  Circle  of
Possibilities in the 4
th
 dimensional worlds.
But eventually we come to the Second Death, as it is called in
Revelations and as self-awareness we pass into the 5
th
 dimensional
Noetical Worlds. Again it is our vibrations that place in the exact
sub plane of the Noetical Worlds that we are in harmony with.
Here  we  also  continue  on  with  the  Circle  of  Possibilities  for  a
human being.
Ultimately  we  come  to  the  end  of  our  current  incarnation,
reaching the point of the Third Death and then pass into the Noetic
State. But we do not enter into a Noetic bodily form as might be
expected; at this level we cannot rightly call it a body. At this level
we enter the Archetypal Idea – the Idea of the Heavenly Man,
which is to say – our Human Form. Our three bodies, material,
psychical and Noetical are materialized extensions of this Human
Form. Neither the Second or Third Death is painful; these deaths
are pleasant transitions into higher realms of light. Reaching the
Noetic State, we reach what religion calls the everlasting light and

science calls the super-light.
Now  we  will  see  ourselves  clearly  in  the  mirror  of  Noetic
Super-Substance. But at this level we will not see ourselves as a
personality. Now we see how we really are, have always been and
always will be: a Spirit-Soul Self with a vibration, a tone that is
uniquely  our  own.  And  it  is  this  vibrational  tone  that  has
characterized our incarnations throughout the past ages and will
continue to do so in future incarnations.
Now we know that there is always a Divine Plan that is being
followed  in  the  created  Worlds  of  Existence  that  also  governs
everything existing in these worlds. And that it is totally in our
own best interest to cooperate with this Divine Plan. This is the
second promise of the Researchers of Truth: “To be ready to serve
at all times and in all places the Divine Plan.”
Pain  and  despair  exist  everywhere  in  our  country  and  the
world. Our planet needs people who have found balance and serve
the  Divine  Plan  to  help  alleviate  as  much  suffering  as  possible.
Christ referred to this point, saying: “The harvest is great, but the
harvesters are very few.” It is a great honor to serve the Divine
Plan; to feel you are a functioning part of the Divine Plan. And
serving the Divine Plan can be as simple as giving a smile to a little
child or helping a friend. It is not the quantity of service that is
important it is the quality that matters most. There is no small
service if that service is done with real love in your heart.
The Circle of Possibilities is the Divine Plan in expression.
And in studying the Circle of Possibilities of any life form, we end
up  coming  to  the  conclusion  that  there  is  a  super  intelligence
behind it all. If we look deeply at any of the living forms around
us; from a tiny plant to a great whale, we cannot deny there is a
super intelligence actively governing it. And what does the word
intelligence mean? Does intelligence have a form? We cannot see a
form  for  intelligence,  but  we  can  detect  it  as  a  force.  With
Concentration and Meditation we can come to know about this
super  intelligence  we  call  God.  One  of  the  more  obvious
characteristics of this super intelligence is its Almightiness: nothing
is impossible or beyond its power.

The  Creative  Etherunder  the  operation  of  this  super
intelligence and the Archangels builds up and sustains our material
body  atom  by  atom.  Using  the  Archetypal  Human  Idea  as  a
template it forms our material body. It works on this idea in time,
space and place to give us the Human Form in all stages of its
Circle  of  Possibilities. All  phenomena  of  life  inscribe  a  specific
cycle within the Divine Plan and nothing can get out of this cycle
because it is the Total Wisdom of God. This means that whatever
is  created  must  remain  under  the  control  of  God  and  Its
Archangelic emissaries.
When a Researcher of Truth or a mystic studies the Circle of
Possibilities for a human being or an animal what do they find?
They come to the same conclusion that all the mystics in the past
have come to. This means they have caught the same thread of
relative truth which leads to the absolute truth. What they found is
the same as what we find and will be the same as what the others
who come in the future will find. All find that Life Is  and  that
living beings Are eternal. And yet they can Exist in the Worlds of
Separation for a time. They also find out about the nature of the
material, Psychical and Noetical Worlds. They all find in the end
their  Divine  Nature  as  the  Spirit  Soul.  Only  people  who  are
willfullyblind  in  their  mind  cannot  see  the  super  intelligence  of
Life. This is because God is Life, and so we do not need to search
for God someplace else. God is Life, we are living and everything
around us is living. God is everywhere expressing Itself in all Its
creations.  God’s  initial  Will-Pleasure  to  manifest  the  creation
immediately becomes the Divine Plan. This means that everything
that is to be created is under a Law-Cause and has its own Circle of
Possibilities.
Do human beings have the intelligence to fully understand this
Divine  Plan?  No,  it  is  not  possible.  Do  the  Archangels  fully
understand the Divine Plan? Not even the Archangels can totally
comprehend the Divine Plan. There are things unknown to even the
Archangels and yet they are perfectly serving the Divine Plan in
creation. What we can understand is certain parts of the Divine
Plan as it pertains to the Worlds of Existence. If a researcher or a

mystic can raise their consciousness to the highest level, then they
can understand existence up to the seventh heaven. And that is
enough for human beings even as gods: as sons and daughters of
God.
Our  human  body  is  built  according  to  the  Divine  Plan
concerning the Circle of Possibilities for a human being. But it is
not built as a static form like a statute. It is living, growing and
changing all the time as is our self-aware personality. According to
the Divine Plan, as an eternal Spirit Being Selfwe are destined to
enter in the Circle of Possibilities for a human being, which means
to become humanized. A ray of the Spirit-Soul Self then presents a
little time and place personality self. The personality is Divine in
nature  but  human  in  expression.  Now  our  humanized  self,  can
experience and know the mysteries of creation and one day know
the Soul in true Self Realization.
But  first  we  must  get  our  lessons  in  the  three  Worlds  of
Existence. We were not just born on Earth as a whim of God; there
is a great reason behind it called the Divine Plan. Each of us is
placed in a certain country, locality, community and family by the
law of destiny. That did not happen by chance or coincidence it
can only happen by virtue of the Divine Plan. Nothing happens
unless it is the will of God. So we have to accept things as they are
and be as good as possible under our current circumstances. And
then work to make a better life. The lessons contained in ours and
other people’s circumstances are always the same, which is to use
the Mind in a better more reasonable way to create a happier and
healthier life.
We all have a Circle of Possibilities and also many Circles of
Probabilities to express ourselves as a personality and also as a
Soul. Aside from our personality’s interests and expressions we
can express a will. Our real will power comes from the Soul and is
not to be confused with obstinacy that comes from a personality’s
egoism, which masquerades as our real will power.
So now we start studying the Circles of Probabilities which is
a law. And we study it by studying all the forms of life around us.
In our study of the Circles of Probabilities for any kind of life, we

see the Law of Cause and Effect in action. We see the total power
appropriately expressed in each form of life. A great whale can
dive two miles deep into the ocean and hold its breath for two
hours. It has the total power for its form of life. A tiny ant can lift
400 times its own body weight, which is the total power for its
form of life.
The Circles of Possibilities are few but there are many, many
Circles of Probabilities within a Circle Possibilities. These are the
laws of the Worlds of Existence. Every form of life in these worlds
is under the changeless Circle of Possibilities and at the same time
under many Circles of Probability. All of which is overseen by the
good  judgment  of  the  Holy Archangels  of  the  elements  and  the
mercy  of  God.  And  it  is  specifically  Archangel  Uriel  that
coordinates balances and puts in order all this work; which means
that it is Uriel who is ruling allthis.
The  Circles  of  Probabilities  allows  for  the  halting  of
development of life at any stage of development. For example, if
you plant a seed, it might not sprout. Or a young tree may wither
and die before it reaches maturity. A young child’s material life
may be cut short and they pass over. On Earth each form of life
has  these  two;  the  Circle  of  Possibilities  and  the  Circles  of
Probabilities. The Circles of Probabilities can terminate a life form
at  any  point  of  its  material  development.  But  the  Circle  of
Possibilities cannot be terminated, because it is immutable. Both
circles are visible and understandable on Earth.
If we make the effort to study the Circles of Possibilities and
Probabilities we can gain the right understanding of nature and the
living forms all around us. We also gain a right understanding of
what  is  going  on  in  our  personality,  with  all  its  strengths  and
weaknesses. We make this effort both as a personality and as the
Inner Self, which makes it sound like we are double. We are not
really double, but we are dual in one. We have two natures; our
Divine Nature and our human nature but only one Selfhood. It is
like  a  coin. A  coin  is  one  thing  but  it  has  two  sides.  One  side
represents  our  Divine  Nature  –  our  real  value.  The  other  side
represents our personality. The problem is that everyone tends to

pay attention only to the one side of the coin; their personality. So
from now on, we should try to see and feel both sides of this coin
of our Selfhood.
As we said before the Circle of Possibilities for a human starts
as a sperm, conception, and birth continuing all the way to the
death of the material body. But this is just one phase of our Circle
of Possibilities. Death of our material body does not end the path
of a human being; instead it reveals a much larger range of the Circle
of Possibilities for us that include our life in the higher planes of
existence, reincarnation and an expansion of consciousness.
Now,  if  the  life  of  a  child  is  cut  short  by  the  Circles  of
Probabilities and passes over at the age of seven and we meet them
in the Psychical Worlds five years later we would see that the child
is now the age of twelve. In these kinds of cases children will keep
on  growing  and  continue  their  Circle  of  Possibilities  in  the
Psychical  and  Noetical  Worlds  in  a  very  similarly  way  as  they
would have on Earth. Whatever we have started on Earth must
follow its evolution in the Psychical and Noetical Worlds. And this
is what Christ was teaching when he said: “Whatever you bind on
earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will
be loosed in heaven.”
So this is telling us that the good and bad habits, ways of
thinking and ways of feeling we have on Earth will transfer with us
when we pass over. But what about our future in this lifetime, can
we know our future? The future is not ours to see, the future is
ours  to  live.  Why?  This  is  because,  what  we  call  the  future  is
nothing  more  than  a  world  of  probabilities:  probable  outcomes
based on our behavior in the past and the present. The Circles of
Possibilities  and  Probabilities  are  valuable  maps  of  knowledge
about our journey in the past, in the present andon into the future.
Our past thoughts, desires, words and actions influence our
present and future incarnations. But even as a personality we are
free to change and make better choices in the present, which will
alter the probable outcomes in the future. This is to say, that it is
with our own free will we can choose to speed up our spiritual
development; or we can leave it to unfold slowly. It is necessary to

study the Circle of Possibilities for a human being in order to find
our  current  place  in  that  cycle.  Then  using  the  Mind,  we  can
develop  our  personality  to  one  day  be  able  to  reach  that  great
milestone of Possibility – Self-Realization.
There is a key in our heart that God has placed there. The key
is our Heart Center of love. This master key can open the gates to
the heavenly mysteries as well as the glory of Earth life. If we
want  we  can  use  this  key  to  open  the  door  to  see  the  worlds
beyond  Earth.  But  we  can  only  do  this  in  Spirit  because  our
material  body  cannot  tolerate  the  highest  vibrations  of  Divine
Love. The Divine Law of Love governs the worlds of Spirit. When
we break our identification with our little personality we transfer it
to  the  real  Soul-Self,  and  attain  universal  harmony.  Then  we
consciously  become  one  with  the  Holy  vibrations  of  the
Archangels and God.
At this state, our Spirit-Soul-Self will clearlyshine through our
personality  self.  Now  the  personality  knows  the  truth  and  is
liberated. As  soon  as  we  are  able  to  reach  that  center  of  our
Beingness, we have reached the very heart of life. And we know
without a doubt the true way to express ourselves is to love.

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
The Logos, the Holy Spirit and it emissaries, the Archangels,
originate and develop each form of life by acting on the Circle of
Possibilities  for  that  form.  The  Circle  of  Possibilities  is  an
Archetypal Principle that defines an array of potential experiences
for each and every living form. For the Human Form, the Circle of
Possibilities outlines the entire cycle of expression starting from
our decent from the Divine, through the process of incarnation and
back  home  to  the  Divine  again.  In  other  words,  our  Circle  of
Possibilities is the journey of the Prodigal Son. This is a complete
cycle that intertwines all our successive incarnations together as
our consciousness undergoes its expansion and purification. Each
individual  incarnation  is  like  a  small  cycle  within  the  full  and
complete Circle of Possibilities for a human being. Even so, there
are still a vast number of Circles of Probabilities that allow for the
interruption  and  withdrawal  of  that  Circle  at  the  material  level.
And yet that only happens within the providence of the Divine
Plan.
In simpler times and cultures, people were more in tune with
the natural rhythm of life than today; because they lived more in
harmony with the cycles in the natural world. Today as we seek to
raise our consciousness to higher and higher levels it is necessary to
become  conscious  of  these  great  Circles  of  Possibilities  and
Probabilities.  Life-forms  like  a  flower,  a  bush  or  a  tree  have  a
simple  Circle  of  Possibilities  and  are  easier  to  trace.  So  in  our
practice  we  start  our  meditations  on  this  kind  of  Circle  of
Possibilities.  Here  is  an  example  of  an  exercise  to  expand  our
awareness of how the Circle of Possibilities works over time. You
can do this with a wheat seed, a corn seed or any kind of seed. But
it may be helpful for you to hold and look at a physical seed before
you start this exercise.

THE PRACTICE: WHEAT SEED MEDITATION
First relax your body, your mind and emotions. Let the concerns of
the day gently drift away.
Now with your eyes closed visualize yourself sitting at the edge of a
big field on a beautiful warm sunny day.
The field has just been plowed and the aroma of the fresh earth fills
you as you breathe.
Using creative thought; see yourself with a seed of wheat in the
palm of your etheric hand.
See that seed in your etheric hand and feel that seed as solid.
We are using concentration and also the 4th dimensional Aesthetic
Ether to feel that seed.
Feel the seed as solid. Now we start a creative thought type of
meditation.
See the rich fertile soil, and you are digging a small hole for the
seed with your hand.
See you are putting the seed in the soil and cover it with dirt.
Now see you are giving that little seed water and the sunlight is
warming the soil and the little seed.
Sit there with it and start to see it grow, first see it in the soil
sending little white roots into the earth.
Then see the seed sending a small green shoot up through the soil
and bursting into the sunlight.
This is a concentration meditation so you must not allow other
thoughts and images to come in to your mind.
See the green shoots growing very slowly – don’t be in a hurry.
See the little tiny plant gradually growing bigger and bigger.
The small plant is growing in to a stalk of wheat and the golden
head is coming ripe for harvest.
See it being harvested. And take a wheat seed from this harvest and
put it in your hand, touch it and feel it as solid.
Now stop the meditation.
It is possible for a person who never saw wheat grow physically to

do this exercise and by attunement enter in to the nature of the seed
and see it correctly go through the successive stages of growth.
This is real creative meditation.

Chapter Twenty
YOUR BROTHER LIVES AGAIN
 
We must try to understand the various levels of Selfhood and see
where we really are standing now. All people are not standing on
the seventh step of the ladder of evolution. Why are not all human
beings on the same level? They are not because they don’t want to
be! If they want to, they can be. Because God, as the Lord of
Selfhood, is giving us the Mind in abundance to use. And by using
the Mind we have to develop in our Selfhood the various kinds of
consciousness. Now, by observation what do we see? This
consciousness is not only to serve the Selfhood, but also to serve all
the other phenomena of life all around us. Now try to understand
what I will say. We are Gods as a Spirit-Soul-Self (our
individuality). And we are just casting an immortal ray of our
Spirit-Soul Self into existence presenting a mortal personality self.
But as a Spirit-Soul-Self we have never departed from the Absolute
Infinite Beingness – God. Have that in your mind. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
We are here in the Worlds of Existence on an adventurous
journey,  an  extended  trip  into  time,  space  and  place.  From  our
home in Beingness we as a Spirit-Soul, project a luminous Ray in
to the Worlds of Existence in order to experience the full extent of
God’s creation. Fortunately we all have a round trip ticket, which
means  that  one  day  we  are  destined  to  return  back  to  our  real
home, our Divine Nature in the Eternal Now.
While on this journey, we as personalities, have a temporary
subsistence here in these Worlds of Existence. Yet as Spirit-Beings
we are, have always been, and always will be in Beingness. This
projected ray of Spirit Life-Light is the core of our existence as a
personality but it is only a projection of a single radiant ray of the
Spirit-Soul-Self into existence. In existence, we dress this Spirit-
Soul ray with our emotions, desires, thoughts and behaviors thus
creating  a  transient  self-awareness  we  call  our  personality.  The
quality of the character of this self-awareness is determined by the
quality of the emotions and thoughts we harbor and express in this
lifetime.
So  we  have  two  states,  the  changing  relative  reality  of  the
Worlds  of  Existence  and  the  permanent  Absolute  Reality  of
Beingness. Existence has a definite beginning and end. However,
Beingness is Eternal. It has no beginning. It has no end. Incarnated
in the material world of existence we find ourselves here in a certain
space-place, at a certain moment in time but in a few hours’ time
we may be in another space-place. Beingness is not like that. In
Beingness it is always now – the Eternal Present.
Our  Selfhood  partakes  and  enjoys  both  of  these  states  of
reality  –  the  changing  states  of  temporary  Existence  and  the
unchanging realm of Eternal Beingness. We as Spirit-Soul Beings
are eternal but we also have a temporary expression as personality.
Likewise,  Life  is  eternal  but  Life  also  expresses  a  temporary
existence in all the forms of life on Earth and in the higher worlds.
Now,  all  forms  of  life  are  under  constant  change.  The  forms
expressing  Life  may  come  and  go  but  the  Life  animating  these

forms cannot be destroyed. Life may pass beyond our ability to
perceive it but that does not mean it ceases.
To  trace  our  Selfhood  from  its  lowest  expressions  of  our
human nature here in the Worlds of Existence to its Eternal source
in Beingness, the image of a line is given. The analogy of the line
represents our Selfhood as a point extending itself into a line. With
any line there are three distinguishable points – one on each end of
the  line  and  an  invisible  point  in  the  middle  of  the  line.  If  we
envision a line running left to right, we can call the point from the
middle  to  the  right,  our  self  as  a  temporary,  present-day
personality in time, space and place. The section of the line from
the middle to the left represents our Self as Spirit. The point in the
middle is the Self as Soul/Permanent Personality.
In the illustration below, from the mid-point to the left end of
the line is a ray of the immortal Spirit-Self, bright luminous and
unchanging. From the mid-point to the right end of the line is a ray
of our Spirit-Soul Self but now dressed ina mortal personality self
and  seen  as  a  line  with  three  gradations.  These  three  segments
represent our material body, Psychical Body, and Noetical Body.
In expression, this personality self is but a reflection of our real
Self, cast in the time, space and place Worlds of Existence. The
personality’s expression in these three worlds may be that of a
saint,  a  sinner  or  something  in  between.  Yet  at  the  core  of  all
personalities  the  pure  uncontaminated  ray  of  the  Spirit-
Soulremains untainted.
In  the  illustration  below,  the  left  upper  side  of  the  line
represents our Individuality, our real identity, and the right lower
side is our personality associated with our current lifetime. This
present-day personality is composed of all our human expressions,
our  thoughts,  emotions  and  behaviors-  good  or  bad.  It  is  this
transient personality that we mistake as our real Self. And this
personality has three bodies, each of which corresponds with one
of the three Worlds of Existence. The material body belongs to the
three dimensional material plane. Our Psychical Body belongs to
the  Psychical  Worlds  of  the  fourth  dimension  and  our  Noetical
Body belongs to the Noetical Worlds of the fifth dimension.

Themidpointof  the  line  represents  the  Soul/Permanent
Personality,  which  contains  all  of  the  experiences  from  all  past
incarnations  perfectly  recorded.  Some  call  the  Permanent
Personality or the Soul Personality. Others call itthe feet of the
Soul  or  the  seat  of  the  Soul.  Whatever  you  call  it,  it  is  this
expressive part of the Soul that projects a ray of itself into the
Worlds of Existencereincarnating again and again.
This  ray  is  seen  as  the  symbolic  backbone  of  each  new
incarnation. It is on this ray as a backbone, we build the character
of  our  personality  by  our  unique  ways  of  thinking,  feeling  and
behaving. And in each new incarnation there is a continuation, a
carryover from the previous incarnations. We bring into each new
incarnation the lessons learned and not learned from our previous
life  times.  In  each  incarnation  we  pick  up  where  we  left  off  in
previous  incarnations  and  continue  on  with  our  lessons  and
interests. Just like how chapters in a book continue the story line
of the book. A single incarnation is the extension of the Permanent
Personality  into  the  Worlds  of  Existence,  manifesting  a  unique
personality and then withdrawing back again.

 
 
Now we should not imagine a rigid separation between our
Spirit-Soul Self and its projections/incarnations into the world of
matter. Likewise, we should not consider Spirit and Matter as two
disconnected  and  diametrically  opposed  states.  Consider  three
dimensional  material  substances  as  the  densest  manifestation  of

Mind. Consider the fourth dimensional psychical substance as a
less  dense  manifestation  of  the  Mind.  And  consider  the  fifth
dimensional Noetical substance an even finer manifestation of the
Mind.  The  Mind  is  the  means  by  which  Spirit  (God)  and  His
Archangelic  emissaries  manifest  the  material,  Psychical  and
Noetical  Worlds  of  Existence.  In  the  above  illustration  it  is  not
possible to draw the real relationship between our three bodies or
the three Worlds of Existence.
Unfortunately thissimple linedrawingmay give the false idea
that these three worlds and three bodies are absolutely separated,
which is and is not the case. They are definitely separated in terms
of  vibration  and  yet  the  material  world  is  interpenetrated  and
surrounded by the Psychical Worlds and by the Noetical Worlds.
Likewise our material body is interpenetrated and surrounded by
the Psychical Body and by the Noetical Body. For our material
body to be alive it must have within it the Psychical and Noetical
Bodies. In the case of the death of our material body, our self-
awareness  transfers  fully  into  its  Psychical  Body;this  body
remains interpenetrated and surrounded by the Noetical Body. For
our Psychical Body to live it must have the Noetical Body with it.
When the Psychical Body is aborted in the second death, the self-
aware  personality  can  live  independently  within  in  its  Noetical
Body  without  having  any  need  for  the  material  or  Psychical
Bodies. It is the Etheric Doubles of our three bodies that serve as
the connecting links between the bodies. In the same way it is the
Etheric Worlds that serve as the connecting links between the three
Worlds  of  Existence.  Of  course  the  above  two  dimensional
illustration, is not capable of adequately depicting the 3rd, 4th, 5th
dimensional worlds and beyond. But it can serve as a symbolic
reference  toour  Selfhood  and  the  Worlds  of  Existencewe  travel
through during our incarnations.
After many, many incarnations and the countless life-lessons
learned  we  might  begin  to  seek  liberation  –  salvation  from  the
purifying fires of incarnation in these Worlds of Existence. We may
then seek to return back home to our real nature in the unity with
God the father. But this journey back home is not measured in

terms of time and distance. It is a journey from illusion to truth,
from shadows to light, from mortality to immortality. When we
tire sufficiently of feeling separated from the Love, Wisdom and
Power of our own Divine Nature we long to reunite with it. We
eventually recognize our predicament and begin to make earnest
efforts to come out of our pain, confusion and sufferings.
Nowhere  is  this  human  sojourn  of  going  out  and  returning
home  more  perfectly  explained  than  in  Christ’s  parable  of  the
Prodigal  Son  (Lost  Son).  This  parable  contains  great  truths
concerning humankind and the conditions we all face in life. This
story  of  the  Lost  Son  is  a  cornerstone  of  the  teachings  of  the
Researchers of Truth.
This parable tells us:
There was a man who had two sons. The younger son said to his
father, “Father, give me my inheritance.” So the father divided his
property between his two sons.
“Not long after that, the younger son got together all he had,
set  off  for  a  distant  country  and  there  squandered  his  entire
inheritance on wild living. After he had spent everything, there was
a severe famine in that country, and the boy began to starve. So he
went and hired himself out to a citizen of that country, who sent him
to his fields to feedhis pigs. He was so hungry that even the husks
he fed to the pigs began to look good to him. Soon he came to his
senses, and began to reason saying, “In my father’s house even the
servants have food to spare, and here I am starving to death! I will
go back to my father and ask him to hire me as his servant.” So he
got up and set off to his father.
But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him
coming and was filled with compassion for him; he ran to his son,
threw his arms around him and kissed him.
The son said to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven
and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.
“But the father said to his servants, “Quick! Bring the best
robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his
feet. Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let’s have a feast and
celebrate. For this son of mine was dead and is alive again.” So

they began to celebrate.
Meanwhile, the older son was in the field. When he came near
the house, he heard music and dancing. So he called one of the
servants and asked him what was going on. “Your brother has
come home,” he replied, “and your father has killed the fattened
calf to celebrate his return.”
“The older brother became angry and refused to go in. So his
father went out and pleaded with him. But he would not listen and
complained to his father, “Look! All these years I’ve been slaving
for you and never disobeyed your orders. Yet you never gave me
even a young goat so I could celebrate with my friends. But when
this  son  of  yours  who  has  squandered  your  property  with
prostitutes comes home, you kill the fattened calf for him!”
“Please,” said the father, “please try to understand, you are
always with me, and everything I have is yours. But it is rightwe
celebrate your brother’s return, because your brother was dead but
lives again; he was lost and now is found.”
This  story  sketches  the  entire  Circle  of  Possibilities  for  a
human being revealing the great truth. Of course the father in the
story  represents  God  our  heavenly  father.  The  elder  son
symbolizes the Archangels who have never left their unity with
God. The younger son represents each eternal Spirit Being destined
to  become  humanized  and  enter  the  cycles  of  incarnation.  The
father’s property given to the younger son is the Mind and the
right to use it. This means the son has complete freedom. Freedom
is the first gift that God gives. The elder brother also has his share
of the father’s property, which means the Archangels are using the
Mind too. Christ’s account shows the true relationship between
man and the Archangels, which is brotherhood. The Archangels are
our true brothers. They know us as their brothers but we have yet
to realize our near and dear relationship with the Archangels.
The  younger  brother  takes  his  inheritance  and  goes  to  a
distant  country,  which  means  incarnation  on  Earth.  Now  the
younger son is in the Worlds of Existence spending his inheritance
on reckless living and getting lessons from those experiences. The
Worlds of Existence are worlds of duality and so the conditions in

this world changed when the famine came and then the boy began
to  suffer.  Now  the  Lords  of  Separation  had  him  as  their  slave
forcing him to serve matter by sending him to tend the pigs. The
pigs  are  the  emotion  and  thought  forms,  the  lower  nature
Elementals that the younger son had created by riotous living. And
it says the boy had to be content with eating the pig’s food. This is
a reference to filthy emotions and thoughts that pollute our hearts
and minds; or what Christ called “unclean spirits.”
But  then  a  step  forward.  The  parable  says  “soon  the  boy
came  to  his  senses  and  began  to  reason,”  and  so  he  decides  to
return  back  home  to  his  father.  Now  this  is  a  very  important
teaching on the way to come out of our suffering and that way is
by reason. The boy sits down and starts to reason his way out of
his  predicament  and  then  make  his  plans  to  leave  that  poor
condition for a better one. He thinks, “what am I doing eating the
food of pigs that does not satisfy me.” This is the question we
must ask ourselves when we seek to be free when we are suffering:
“What  are  all  these  troubling  thoughts,  emotions  and  behaviors
actually doing for me? Do they really satisfy me?” Now in the
story  the  boy  comes  to  the  truth  and  decides  to  leave  his
unsatisfying condition. And so he sets off to return back to his
father. But while the boy was still a long way off, the father sees
him coming and runs to him embracing and kissing him. What does
this mean? Today we would say it this way: “If you make one
step towards God, he will make nine steps towards you.”
Another important teaching in this parable is that after the
boy has taken some steps to return the father sees him. This means
the father is watching and waiting for his return just like God is
watching and waiting for our return. But when the father reaches
the  son,  the  boy  says,  “I  am  unworthy  to  be  your  son.”
Nevertheless, the father does not see it like that and claims him as
his son, then has him dressed in his best robe. By doing so, the
father restored him to his original princely condition. Now he is
dressed  like  his  elder  brothers  the Archangels.  In  a  similar  way
upon our return to our Divine Nature in Self Realization, we gain
what we never really lost: our original status as an offspring of

God. We may have lost our awareness of our princely status but a
child of God is always a child of God, even when they behave like
a naughty child.
So nothing is lost by undergoing the suffering inherent with
incarnation. In fact there is a gain, the gain of the golden ring the
father puts on his finger. The ring is a symbol for eternity, because
if  you  move  around  the  circumference  of  a  ring,  there  is  no
beginning  and  no  end  so  it  gives  the  sense  of  eternity.  It  is
movement without any end. And with this sense of eternity plus
the experiences in the time, space and place; the younger son has a
distinct advantage that the Archangels do not have. Because of his
outward  journey  and  return  home,  the  younger  son  now
understands both time and the Eternal Now. The Archangels do
not  understand  time  they  only  understand  the  Eternal  Now.
Daskalos knew the language of the Archangels and had asked them
more than once: “What is time?” The only reply they can give is,
“Now. We are in the Eternal Now.” They have always been and
will always be in the Eternal Now. What time is, does not concern
them, what interests them is their work in expressing their nature
in the Eternal Now.
Look behind you at your past and you will not be able to find
a beginning of it in time. There is an eternity behind us we call
past, just as there is an eternity ahead of us in what we call the
future. When you think of the past all you do is draw up memories
of what once were present moments. It does not matter if the past
you remember was only twenty minutes ago, twenty years ago or
twenty  lifetimes  ago,  all  you  are  doing  in  your  remembrance  is
drawing up stored memories. Even if you have forgotten periods in
the past of this lifetime or events in past lifetimes; there are ways
to remember but it takes training. To authentically remember past
lives we must be able to raise our self-consciousness to the level of
our Spirit-Soul Self and not be totally focused in our personality
self all the time, which is a reason why we do not remember past
incarnations.
But now when you think about the future you just draw upon
projected possible outcomes, shadows of things to come, which are

just as ephemeral as past memories. All we really know is this
present moment, and this is the reality for us. That we are living in
the present moment is the one and only reality for us. Living is a
reality. But how can reality exist between the two illusions called
past and future? And how is it that we find ourselves existing now
in the reality of the present moment? If we seriously study this we
will realize that there was always a now that existed for us. And all
those  past  experiences  were  in  the now  at  that  past  time. And
those experiences we will have in the future will also occur in the
now. There will always be a now for us, sandwiched between the
eternities of past and future.
But for a Researcher of Truth, the thing that interests us the
most  is  in  knowing  who  and  what  we  are.  Who  we  are  as  a
personality has constantly changed over the course of our life. So
we need not be afraid of changes because we as a personality have
never stopped changing and never will. And now all those changes
are in what we call the past; in previous years and decades of this
incarnation.  But  what  about  in  previous  centuries,  in  past
incarnations?  If  we  start  this  line  of  investigation  we  see  an
eternity  behind  us  in  time. All  we  really  know  is  the  present
moment; we know for sure we exist now. But how is itpossible
that we appear in this lifetime if we have not existed before? And
what will we be in the future? Will we enter a state of nothingness
and cease to exist? If so, then how is it that today we are living in
the present moment? What if someone asked you that question in
1500 AD? It would be exactly the same. You would know for sure
you were living in the present moment in 1500 AD, but you could
not imagine yourself or your way of life today in the high tech 21
st
Century. You might even wonder what you had been in those past
500 years. Were you just like a leaf blown here and there by the
winds of Karma, not knowing who you are or your purpose in life?
As a personality yes, but as a Spirit-Soul no.
The parable also tells us that when the prodigal son returns
home, the father kills a fatted calf, which symbolized the son’s
material body. The material body has to be sacrificed to enter the
heavens; as it is written: “Flesh and blood can never inherit the

kingdom  of  the  heavens.”  Now  the  elder  brother  in  the  parable
never left the Eternal Now and entered into a material existence, he
never incarnated with a material body and so he was never in need
of  a  calf  or  a  goat  to  be  sacrificed  in  order  to  be  set  free.  The
Archangels never misused the Mind like the human beings are using
it to create and send negative Elementals. This gives the human
beings the very lessons they need to eventually come out of their
illusion and return back home to God and their Divine Nature as
the  Spirit-Soul.  With  these  lessons  learned  the  prodigal  son
eventually  returns  to  God  with  the  full  understanding  and
acceptance of his Divinity.
So  we  see  in  this  parable  the  great  truth  concerning  the
journey of humankind undergoing a sense of separation from God
here in the Worlds of Existence and then returning back home again.
We  are  all  prodigal  sons/daughters,  though  some  live  more
prodigally than others. Yet, if we study our own conditions in life
deeply,  we  will  find  ourselves  at  some  point  in  this  common
journey.  Some  may  still  find  themselves  seeking  meaning  or
happiness in a prodigal life. Others may be reaching the turning
point in their sojourn where they “come to their senses” and decide
to leave their self-created suffering and illusions to return home to
their father God. Others may have already felt the embrace and
kiss of God welcoming them as they approach. And there are those
great ones who have gone before us and already completed their
return!

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
Whether we want it or not, it is in the Divine Plan for the
prodigal son to return home. Sooner or later all of us are destined to
complete the journey of the prodigal son and return to our Divine
Nature. If we want to speed that process up, we have to work on
it. We have inherited the Mind Vitality as psychical substance,
Noetical substance and even the Super Substance. But what have
we  done  with  it?  We  have  misused  the  Mind  creating  many
negative  emotions  and  thoughts  that  are  producing  selfish  love,
jealousies and fighting. We have created these negative Elementals,
which have become part of the composition of our personality.
And we suffer because of that.
So what to do? We must start using the Mind properly to
create positive, healthy emotions and thoughts; to unfold our self-
consciousness  and  become  the  master  of  our  emotions  and
thoughts.  Unfolding  who  we  are  as  a  personality  self-
consciousness we will one day reach the level of knowing what we
are  as  a  Spirit-Soul  Self.  In  this  true  Self  Realization,  we  can
manifest our latent powers of attunement and At-One-Ment with
the  Divine. And  we  then  find  that  we  are  all  gods,  sons  and
daughters of God the father. So we need to find out what we really
are, not just in this moment but always.

PRACTICE: ESSENE MEDITATION
This meditation was given by Joshua Emmanuel the Christ, in the
synagogue  of  the  Essene  Brotherhood,  to  His  disciples  before
sending them into the world to work as teachers and healers. It had
been lost in time but reintroduced by Daskalos to his students.
Before starting, relax completely, breathe deeply and comfortably
but most of all consciously.
Visualize  Joshua  Emmanuel  the  Christ  standing  before  you,
dressed in His snow-white robe.
As  you  sit  peacefully,  ready  to  listen,  Joshua  reaches  out  His
arms, blessing us.
In  perfect At-One-Ment  with  His  Divine  Self,  the  Logos,  and
attuned with each and every human being, Joshua speaks to us.
“My beloved ones, all of you are offspring of mine, Spirit-Soul-
Egos, immortal Gods,
Ego-Selves, in my Infinite Selfhood.
I am the Lord, your God in you.
I am your Ego-Being-Self.
I am the Lord, your God in every other human being.
I am the Ego-Being-Self of all human beings.
I am the Creator of everything, and I am in everything existing.
Beloved ones, be still, be calm, and listen to me.
I am the everlasting Life, the Life in every living being and in every
living thing in my Omnipresence.
Listen to me. I will speak to you in your mind also, by intuition.
Listen to me and understand.
I, together with the Holy Archangels, have given you a material
body, and we are sustaining it continuously for you to live in.
I have given you bodies to be my Image and Likeness.
I have given you the Divine Light Body, (in its violet light,) to give
you the Wisdom in my world of other Dimensions.
I have given you the body of sensations and emotions; do not allow

the Evil Ones to contaminate it with illusions
and darkness
I have given you in your material body the Etheric Double. Find it,
and use it well.
Cooperate in it with the Archangels in your body in their creative
work.
Feel your Etheric Double and fill it with my Mind-Light-Vitality.
Be still. Be calm and listen to me.
I have given you in your material body a human heart.
I am in the pulse of your heart.
Hear me in the pulse of your heart.
In the pulse of your heart is my love for you.
Clean your heart.
Make it a crystal clear mirror to reflect my love – your love – to
every human being, my offspring.
Find me and listen to me.
I am Life in your heart.
I have given you two eyes, well protected in their sockets.
You  can  see  the  material  light  and  in  this  light  you  can  see
everything material in the material world.
Feel me in my Omnipresence.
I have given you in your chest two lungs to breathe my air and my
Life-giving Vitality.
Breathe deeply and feel the air you are breathing in your lungs.
You can feel me there and you can hear me in your breath.
I am in your breath.
Beloved offspring, all of you,
I am the Life in your bodies.
I am the Life everywhere.
I am the everlasting Life.
I  am  the  Omnipresent,  Omniscient  and  Omnipotent  Infinite
Selfhood.
All of you are my Self-conscious Ego, Spirit-Soul-Beings, immortal
Gods.

Be still. Be calm. Listen to me.
I have given you the Mind to use, that you may understand who you
are.
I am the Lord God. I am God, your Divine Father.
I am the Lord of Hosts.
I am God the Logos and God the Holy Spirit.
See me in the Life-Love-Light in you.
I am in the inextinguishable Mind-Light in the everlasting Wisdom.
I am the light emanating from the material sun.
Feel me and see me in the strength and Power of Nature.
See me and hear me in the storm.
Hear me in the wind.
See me and hear me in the thunder and lightning.
Hear me and see me in the raging sea.
See me as the beauty of the trees in blossom.
See me as the symmetry in all forms.
See me in the blossoming flowers.
Feel me in their sweet fragrance and see me in their lovely hues.
I am the everlasting Life in your immortal Spirit-Soul-Ego-Self in
my infinite Selfhood.
The death is not a reality, but an illusion.
The reality is everlasting life.
Your ever changing bodies are not you.
Your Self-conscious Ego-Being is an immortal Spirit-Soul-Being.
I am not the God of the dead.
I  am  the  God  of  everlasting,  immortal,  Self-conscious  Gods,
beloved offspring of mine.”

Chapter Twenty One
ASCENDING THE LADDER OF
REALITIVE TRUTH
 
The researcher of truth gets as close to the truth as possible, but
why as much as possible? Because, within the world of time and
space we can only have knowledge of the relative truth – not the
Absolute Truth. The Absolute Truth cannot be known before we
have the whole of the relative truth and see it from all angles. In the
gross material world, the world of three dimensions we now live in,
the relative truth is ample for now. Now you come to the point of
analyzing. “What am I? Who am I?” Just try to find out who you
are. This is the aim of the Researchers after the Truth, of our
Circles – serious research to find the Truth. But, you cannot
approach the Truth unless you ascend the ladder of the relative
truth. It is not so easy to pierce the real meaning of the Truth.
 
Now, how shall we start working to find the Truth? What is the
Truth? Of course, we know the relative truth. We know the relative
truth of things in time and place-space by comparison. This is the
relative truth about things and conditions in life where you say that
this or that isn’t true. This is the relative truth. In the research of
truth there is need for rationalism, concentration and work in all
areas, to correct our views and impressions. This is an important
point to remember. We are continually moving on, we don’t stop at
one point. Now, this is rather difficult to understand, but, try to
understand it. The relative truth is so much of the absolute Truth
according to the distance and the quality of the things you are
studying. Are we in very deep waters now? Maybe. Yet, they are
necessary. ~Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
As  personalities  living  in  the  worlds  of  illusion,  it  is  not
possible to jump directly to Absolute Truth. Rather our approach
to Absolute Truth is made by ascending the ladder of relative truth.
And  we  start  our  ascent  the  moment  we  sincerely  seek  to
understand  the  truth  about  our  real  Self,  its  Source  or  the  true
nature of reality.
First let us describe what we mean by relative truth. We can
say that relative truth is a portion of Absolute Truth. And that
Absolute Truth is unchangeable. It cannot be improved or lessened
by anything. But a relative truth can be expanded upon, increased
and changed; therefore it is not absolute. An example of relative
truth  from  the  material  world  would  be  gravity.  In  the  material
world gravity is a fixed law, a truth no one can deny. All people
and material things are bound by this law. Yet this truth is relative
not absolute, because by applying higher laws such as the Laws of
Aerodynamics man has learned to build airplanes, fly them, and
temporarily rise above the pull of gravity. Or by using other laws
of physics, rocket science has allowed man to escape the confines
of  Earth  transcending  the  relative  truth  of  earth’s  gravity.  So
gravity is but a relative truth within the material three-dimensional
universe.
Similarly the law of Karma, the law of cause and effect, is a
truth found in all the Worlds of Existence – the material, Psychical
and Noetical Worlds. All enlightened teachers from all cultures and
times taught the truth of this law. Christ spoke of it as: “You reap
what you sow.” Yet Christ was able to neutralize the effects of
this  exacting  law  with  the  higher  law  of  forgiveness.  As  he
approached  the  afflicted  he  would  say  “Your  sins  are  forgiven
you,” and remove the body/mind/emotional afflictions that resulted
from their transgressions (i.e. he removed the negative effects and
imbalances that are the consequences of transgressing the Divine
Laws). In a lesser degree this is what a confessor in a church or a
good psychotherapist does with those who confess their wrong
doings.  As  personalities,  we  are  not  able  to  forgive  sin  as

completely as Christ did. However, we can and should forgive all
transgressions  against  us  for  everyone’s  sake.  But  what  does
“forgiveness”  really  mean? And  what  is  the  difference  between
forgiving  a  transgression  and  forgiving  the  transgressor?
Forgiveness does not mean forgetting, condoning wrongs or putting
up with abuse. Forgiveness does not require us to go on ignoring
the hurtful actions of others and pretending things are other than
they really are.
Why should we forgive others? One obvious reason is that we
want to be forgiven, so how can we ask to be forgiven if we do not
forgive others? We will be forgiven by the very same measure by
which we forgive others. In our prayer we ask God to: “Forgive us
our transgression as we forgive those who transgress against us.”
This is an exact mathematical equation that we will be forgiven to
the same degree as we forgive others. To forgive someone really
means  to  love  someone  unconditionally.  When  you  really  love
there is no need for you to forgive. What about when we make a
mistake and cause a problem for someone else, should we ask them
to  forgive  us?  Sometimes  yes,  if  it  necessary  and  if  it  is  done
purely. But asking for forgiveness can be too egoistic. So in some
cases it is better just ask God to forgive you, and send that person
love  and  good  will,  and  God  will  bless  that  person.  It  is  100
percent in your best interest to forgive others and not to allow
your  heart  and  mind  to  entertain  bad  thoughts  and  negative
feelings. Hatred, animosity and the like produce dangerous poisons
in  our  personality,  and  cause  toxins  in  our  body,  which  can
eventually create physical illnesses like ulcers. An example of this
mind/emotional/body  connection  was  proven  by  medical  science
when they analyzed the chemistry of tears. They found that tears
of sorrow have a distinctively different chemical composition from
tears  of  joy  and  contain  much  greater  quantities  of  certain
hormones.  This  proves  that  strong  emotions  directly  affect  our
body. So it is vital to remove any negative thoughts and feelings
from our personality and keep it clean.
Nobel  Peace  Prize  recipient  and  past  chairman  of  South
Africa’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission, Bishop Desmond

Tutu   explained:   “The   process   of   forgiveness   requires
acknowledgement on the part of the perpetrator that they have
committed an offense. We cannot be facile and say bygones will be
bygones, because they will not be bygones and will return to haunt
us.  True  reconciliation  is  never  cheap,  for  it  is  based  on
forgiveness,  which  is  costly.  Forgiveness  in  turn  depends  on
repentance, which has to be based on an acknowledgement of what
was done wrong and therefore on disclosure of the truth.”
There  was  a  disagreeable  couple  living  in  Daskalos’
neighborhood on Cyprus; they were all the time blaming others and
causing trouble. Also they were poor and in need of money for
food from time to time. Daskalos became aware of this and would
anonymously  put  money  in  an  envelope  and  slip  it  under  the
family’s front door. One time, they started claiming someone stole
from them, and blamed Daskalos. The police were eventually called
and came along with the accusers to Daskalos’ home laying the
charges at Daskalos’ feet. Daskalos explained that not only did he
not steal from them, but also when they were starving, he was the
one who had been putting money under their door and named the
dates when he did so. This was a great shock to his accusers and
with the police they went away. Later they returned feeling guilty
that  their  wrong  accusations  had  wounded  Daskalos.  But  they
hadn’t because, as Daskalos said, he had already killed his own
egoism and never felt wounded.
Still, they knelt down before him and said: “Forgive us.”
“No need,” he replied, “I love you.”
“They said: “We love you too,”
“I  love  you,”  he  said  again,  “But  please  no  more  contact
between us.”
When Daskalos recounted this story, he went on to say that
we have the right to end such a connection. And Christ has also
stated this in his teaching. But Daskalos added, “You can forget
such people, but have no ill will toward them. To forget them is
good, to forgive them is not necessary if you love them.” This is
mercy. And  Christ  said:  “I  want  mercy,  not  sacrifice.”  Mercy
means love. After you kill your own egoism, you will not feel the

need for someone to ask you to forgive them even if they feel the
need to be forgiven. Of course you will tell them you forgive them
for their sake. But if you want others to come to you and ask for
your forgiveness, then this is not driven by mercy or love.
In truth, we all belong to one race: the human race. And this
family called the human race all live together in a common home:
the planet Earth. So we should always make the effort to love all
our family members. An egoistic person does not know how to
love others properly. It is a great principle that the truth sets us
free; likewise it is also a great principle that it is our love that
protects us. So a pure heart is the best protection from those who
consciously or sub-consciously wish us harm. If we can raise our
standard  of  love  from  that  of  egoistic  personal  love  to  real
unconditional  love,  we  can  be  protected  from  the  damage  and
mischief of someone who considers us their enemy. Researchers of
Truth are not allowed to have enemies. But as you probably have
noticed it is easy to make enemies and takes more effort to make
friends.
Buddha taught that hatred does not cease hatred at any time.
Hatred only ceases by love. In other words we cannot extinguish
fire with more fire, we extinguish fire with water. Similarly, harsh
words  to  others  arouse  anger  in  both  people,  but  gentle  words
calms anger in both people. It is so obvious that loving someone
who loves us is a natural human response that is common to all of
us. But to hate someone who loves you is devilish. And to love
someone who hates you is Divine. We can also notice that what we
call evil attacks good and sometimes it attacks other evil, but real
goodness only strengthens good and never attacks evil. So it is up
to us to choose which way we will follow.
Even  if  those  who  are  transgressing  against  us  feel  fully
justified and unrepentant in their actions, we can still accept the
lesson contained in the experience, forgive the transgression, love
the transgressor and apply the Fifth Promise of the Researchers of
Truth: “I promise to myself, to love and serve my fellow human
beings from the depths of my heart and Soul, no matter what their
behavior is to me.” The sincere application of the Fifth Promise is

our best response as it will unlock the chain binding us to wrongs
so that healing may occur; freeing us to make another step up the
ladder of relative truth.
Now what we consider a relative truth of one dimension can
be completely obliterated by a relative truth of a higher dimension.
For  example,  space  as  measurable  distance  between  objects  or
places  is  a  relative  truth  associated  with  the  three  dimensional
material  plane.  However  in  the  fourth  dimensional  psychical
planes,  the  truth  of  measurable  space  as  known  on  earth  is
completely gone and replaced with the concept of place. On the
psychical planes of existence, many unique localities and things can
occupy the same place without being mixed up. It is similar to the
way  on  earth  how  programs  that  are  broadcast  from  many
television  stations  exist  all  around  us  simultaneously  without
mixing up. If you tune your television to the frequency of channel
four,  you  will  become  aware  of  that  program  only.  Change  the
tuning of your television to channel six and for you, channel four
stopped existing and you are only aware of the existence of the
program  broadcast  on  channel  six.  In  this  example  no  physical
movement occurred, just a tuning from one frequency to another.
Similarly “traveling” from one psychical place to another can be
accomplished  by  attuning,  and  coordinating  yourself  to  the
vibration of the frequencies of the place you want to be.
In the fifth dimensional Noetical planes, the concept of time
as  measured  on  Earth  completely  disappears.  In  the  Noetical
planes of existence there is a sense of passing events but not time
as we designate it on earth. In the Noetical Worlds 100 earth years
might seem as a single day. The truth of measurable time and space
is only relative and not absolute. The more we study, observe and
meditate on the relative truth the more we approach the Absolute
Truth. This means that we cannot approach the Absolute Truth
unless  we  scale  the  ladder  of  relative  truth. And  we  make  our
ascent up the ladder of relative truth from exactly the place we find
ourselves right now. So we first study the relative truth about the
current things and conditions in our life.
Unfortunately the average person does not live their life like a

thinking individual, but more of a feeling person living within their
own dreams and illusions. And most of the time it is their illusions
that  create  the  disappointment  and  sense  of  hopelessness
experienced in some lives. But a Researcher of Truth seeks to come
as  close  to  the  Absolute  Truth  as  possible,  because  as  a
personality living in the three Worlds of Existence, the Absolute
Truth  cannot  be  understood  before  examining  the  relative  truth
fully.  And  that  is  ok,  because  in  the  Words  of  Existence  the
perceptible relative truth is a result of the Absolute Truth. But we
will never stop our ascent up the ladder of relative truth. We are
continually moving from the relative truth towards the Absolute
Truth.
Albert Einstein said “Problems cannot be solved by the same
level of thinking that created them.” This is telling us that when we
are faced with a troubling problem we should make the effort to
rise  about  the  level  of  the  problem  and  see  it  from  a  higher
perspective in order to find the best solution. Daskalos told me
once that when he had a difficult problem he was trying to sort
out, he preferred to leave his material body in Exosomatosis to
solve it. Of course we are not all able to make an out of body
experience when dealing with our problems. But we all can make an
effort to climb to a higher rung on the ladder of relative truth and
see the problem from a greater viewpoint.
And the method needed to make our way up the ladder of
relative truth is the method of Comparison. So we compare relative
things to conclude the relative truth of them compared to other
relative things. Relative truth belongs to the worlds of duality. The
only way to understand relative truth is by using the method of
comparison.  In  these  dualistic  worlds,  we  must  compare  two
points, two conditions, two teachings, two people, or two events
in order to come to a solid understanding of the relative truth of
them. We learn by comparison and we teach by comparison. For
example the average person is living, which is a reality, but while
living they are dreaming all the time and a dream is not a reality.
But dreaming can be transformed in to reasonable thinking, which
is a reality. Now as we seek to know the relative truth we have

two points of comparison – dreaming and clear thinking. As we
progress in this study of the relative truth we will advance to being
able to compare three, four or more points.
So we can study what the reality is and what the illusions are
by comparison. And this study reveals that there can be no illusion
unless there is a reality behind it. In our study we move from the
illusion and enter the reality behind the illusion. Even when we
pass over after the death of our material body we still will gain
knowledge by comparison. And this is the method used by the
“Invisible  Helpers”,  the  light  workers,  in  the  psycho-Noetical
planes of existence to assist those who get caught in their shell-
hells and can’t escape. In these higher worlds, they can help people
see things better and create in them a desire to come out of their
self-imposed hell. To do this, an invisible helper can safely enter
the  shell-hell  of  a  person  in  the  psycho-Noetical  Worlds,
temporarily  take  them  out  of  it  and  show  them  a  much  better
condition. The Invisible Helper cannot make that person choose
the better way, but he can show them a better way. Then it is up
to the person to choose.
Nothing can prevent a person from leaving their conditional
hell if they have the un-conflicted desire and firm decision to come
out of it. However, in the multilayered Psycho-Noetical Worlds of
gradated light, one person’s hell canbe another person’s paradise
and what is a paradise to one person is a hell to another. As we
ascend the ladder of relative truth, it is helpful to notice that our
approach to the light of truth has four obvious phases.

SEEING THE LIGHT OF TRUTH
The first phase begins with seeking to see the light of truth.
We are encouraged to, “Seek” and we are promised that if we do
seek,”...we will find.” We are all free to seek and find the truth of
anything, such as: The truth of why we suffer; the truth of who we
are and what we are, where we have come from, where we are going
and our purpose in this life. These are important questions not just
for the Researchers of Truth but also for any sincere seeker from
any  spiritual  system  or  religion.  In  seeking  the  truth  about  the
constantly changing phenomena of life all around us we will one
day find the truth concerning the changeless Eternal Life that lies
behind all the these temporary forms of life.
During this first phase of seeking, the light of truth seems as
something outside of us. And at times we can rightly say: “I see
the light.” At first we see the light of truth as something external to
be searched for in books, teachers and life experiences. So we begin
devouring  spiritual  writings,  attending  spiritual  workshops  or
maybe we embark on the “guru hunt” to find a master to help us in
our quest. These things can help show us the way and illuminate
our spiritual path. But our movement along this path and up the
ladder of relative truth can only be made by us. Finding a true and
selfless master is a great, great benefit but they will not walk your
path for you. You must make this effort yourselves to reach the
light of truth.

IN THE LIGHT OF TRUTH
When we make the effort to find a greater measure of truth we
are transformed by it. When this happens we can rightly say: “I
am in the light of truth.” Now we feel the light of truth is shining
on us; we bask in it, savoring its harmony and beauty. When we
find such a clear stream of truth it is natural to want to follow it to
its  source,  to  know  greater  and  greater  measures  of  this  truth.
“Know  the  truth  and  the  truth  will  set  you  free.”  This  gentle
persuasion urges us to experience the truth for ourselves. It does
not suggest that we blindly follow what others say the truth is. It
advises us to make our own effort to know truth directly.
Finding truth and comprehending it intellectually is one thing,
but to really know the truth means to understand it experientially
beyond ordinary, limited thinking. To penetrate deep into truth, to
grasp  real  meaning,  requires:  Introspection,  Observation  and
Meditation. These are the prime tools of the Researcher of Truth,
which leads deeper and deeper into the light of truth.

THE LIGHT OF TRUTH WITHIN
As we continue onward we will eventually experience a new
perspective on the issue. The light of truth we first sought outside
of ourselves is now revealed inside. In this third phase, we see and
know this radiant light of truth as something within us. This light
of truth is not coming from the personality but from something
much, much higher. It arises from that Divine part of us which is
virtually  incomprehensible  to  our  personality.  It  comes  from
within and our personality is illumined by this magnificent light.
And we begin to experience increasing measures of the liberating
truth that resides within us all. Then we can rightly say: “The light
of truth is within me.”

I AM THE LIGHT OF TRUTH
Up to this point our experiences of the light of truth have
been  necessarily  dualistic.  In  each  of  the  previous  phases,  our
approach to truth has had a subject and object orientation. We are
the subject, and truth has been the object of our search. This is a
dualistic  condition.  However,  Absolute  Truth  is  not  dualistic.
When we begin to experience the higher states of Truth, we soon
realize that the seeker is actually what is being sought. And that
the light of truth sought for is, was, and will always be the seeker’s
Divine Nature. But with virtually all our attention focused through
our five senses on the outer world and not the inner, we miss this
fundamental fact.
In  scaling  the  ladder  of  relative  truth  concerning  our  self-
awareness where should we start? We start with what we know for
sure  and  that  is  that  we  are  living  in  a  material  body.  No  one
doubts this, and so our body is our starting point, which is like one
end  of  a  line  that  extends  all  the  way  back  to  our  origin  as  an
Eternal Spirit Being. We begin our life in a male or female material
body with a name. Our name is not us; our name is just given tous
by the notion of our parents. Continuing our investigation to trace
this line of our Selfhood back to its source we see that this first
part of the line represents our personality and is multicolored. But
the colors are not the same in all personalities, because no two
personalities are the exactly the same. So the coloring of this part
of the line represents the quality of our personality, our character.
In other words, this line is colored by the quality of the thoughts,
desires, words and actions we express.
But  unfortunately,  within  all  these  colors  there  exists  a
confused  mixture  of  shades,  which  have  been  created  by  our
conflicting thoughts, desires, feelings and interests. And yet at the
core  of  this  line  of  many  colors  there  is  that  steady,  pure  and
luminous ray of the Spirit-Soul. And it is all the mixture of colors
and  shades  created  by  our  emotions,  feelings,  thoughts  and
interests that cover this perfect ray of the Spirit-Soul Self. This
bright ray absorbs whatever good is present in the shell of our

multicolored  thoughts  and  emotions.  This  means  that  the  Inner
Self,  our  Permanent  Personality,  distils,  absorbs  and  accurately
records our endless variety of experiences in time, space and place.
Our Permanent Personality is that part of the Spirit-Soul Self that
projects the ray into the Worlds of Existence to be incarnated. It is
the personality’s acceptance of different qualities of thoughts and
emotions that causes the continual change within our temporary
personality.
For example, we can imagine that we put a thin glove on our
hand and then a bigger glove over the first one and move our fingers
we will see the fingers of the outer glove move. The outer glove
represents  our  mortal  material  body,  the  inner  finer  glove
represents  our  temporary  personality  and  the  hand  inside  both
gloves is the immortal Soul Self. When we move the fingers of our
hand we can clearly see the fingers of the outer glove move. But we
are not able to see the fingers of the hand move, which is what is
actually causing the fingers of the glove to move. And we cannot
see the inner glove move either.
So when we see the phenomena of movement in the gloves we
know  it  is  our  hand  that  is  making  this  movement.  The  gloves
cannot move without the hand in them. If we take off both gloves
from our hand they become completely lifeless. Put our hand back
in the gloves and they take on the warmth and movement of the
hand again. In a similar way when we see movement/life in our
material body and movement/life in our personality we are seeing
results of our eternal nature, which is Life. In other words, without
the Inner Self within our personality and body, they would be as
lifeless as the gloves without the hand in them.
The Inner Self is the ultimate reality and not our personality
or body. Life and movement are not coming from our material body
or our personality self-awareness. Life is the immortal Soul-Self.
And when you manage to find that steady fixed point in you that
is  receiving  and  distilling  the  experiences  of  your  temporary
personality  self,  you  will  have  found  the  Inner  Self.  In  the
beginning you may not even recognize it, but with the practices of
Observation and Introspection you will be able to distinguish it

quite well.
This is very beautiful to find your real “I-ness” and discover
you are not who you thought you were: just a frail creature with
strengths and weaknesses who sometimes feels unsure, hurt, and
offended. But we can only reach this level of awareness after we
calm  down  the  emotions  and  thoughts  gushing  through  our
personality all the time. This means we must learn to be the master
of our own home. Now we will find our body and personality will
become more powerful. But you can never achieve this level of
self-mastery as long as you misidentify your real Self with your
personality and body.
At this very moment we are both our temporary personality
and our Permanent Personality. To understand this better we need
to separate these two and see the difference. How do we do this? It
is again by comparison. Observing our temporary personality we
can see that it is always in a state of flux. It constantly changes
over the course of our life from cradle to grave. And what changes
are our fluctuating sets of thoughts, desires, feelings and interests.
Our  personality  is  like  an  instrument,  like  a  Stradivarius
violin. But our fine instrument is constantly being influenced by
circumstances  in  our  environments  and  it  can  succumb  to  these
influences  and  go  out  of  tune.  For  example,  sometimes  a  slight
provocation around us creates annoyance in our personality and
produces the unhealthy condition of an irritated egoism. Sadly we
are mistaking this inharmonious egoism to be our Self.
At times we may have this experience; but there is always a
point within our personality where we can stop and say no to our
egoist reactions. And if we introspect on our egoistic reactions, we
will find that these reactions are a product of past influences. And
this reveals that it is only egoism that reacts in anger, gets annoyed
and taking matters in its own hands much to your detriment. Now
we can say no, “In the future I will not react egoistically; I will be
the master of the situation.” When provoked by others I will smile
and turn away. Or I will try deeply to understand this provoking
behavior; why that person thinks the way they do and how I am
being  affected  by  it.  Now  as  a  real  researcher  we  are  studying

human behavior (ours and theirs).
From now on when someone criticizes and characterizes you
in  an  undesirable  way,  you  will  be  able  to  research  the  matter
yourself to see to what degree they may be right or wrong. Ask
yourself: why has this person come to this assumption about me.
But be careful when coming to a conclusion, because your own
cunning egoism will start to instantly condemn the other person
and exonerate its own negative reactions by making excuses for it.
When this happens you can be sure that this is not the true Self.
This is a precious moment to catch and disable your own egoism.
At  this  moment  you  have  found  your  personality  wearing  an
egoistic mask made of hurt feelings and thoughts of offense. Now
is the moment to take ahold of it firmly so it cannot squirm and get
away. Now you declare that you are not your egoism and will find
that you can control it. This reveals that you are the Inner Self that
has  power  to  govern  your  egoism.  This  is  a  great,  great  step
forward in your spiritual advancement.
When we begin examination of our personality our intent is
not to kill our personality or punish it but to transform it. This is
the point. As we find undesirable thoughts, feelings and desires in
our personality we gradually stop these things the true Self does
not need. As we remove these unnecessary habits, the true Self can
now express itself through the personality in a much, much better
way. Now our personality becomes brighter, lighter and happier.
It is like having a cloth over a light bulb. If the cloth is dark
and dirty not much light will be seen. But if you make that cloth,
cleaner and lighter in color then more light from the bulb can radiate
through. Nothing has happened to the light bulb, it did not increase
its  intensity;  but  now  more  light  comes  through  the  cloth.
Similarly, in cleaning our personality, we are not losing anything
important we just gain more of the light. The light did not change;
the light was always there brilliant and luminous, just waiting to be
uncovered.  So  we  gain  strength  in  our  personality  by  leaving
behind egoistic thoughts and feelings; and we find the Inner Self.
Which means that you do not need to make a herculean effort to
find the true Self because it is you!

The practice of Introspection requires comparison. This is not
a  difficult  thing  to  do  when  you  feel  you  are  the  Permanent
Personality,  but  it  does  have  dangers.  The  dangers  are  in  being
convinced  by  the  false  arguments  that  come  from  your  own
egoism. In introspecting on a disagreement with another person,
your egoism will present itself as you saying in essence, the other
person  was  wrong  and  you  are  right.  And  that  you  should
intervene, stand up for yourself and show the other person they
are wrong.
But in virtually all serious arguments, whether you intervene
and argue back or not, it will not make much difference. If you do
argue,  it  will  just  be  more  words  against  a  relentless  stream  of
words  coming  from  the  other  person.  Most  of  which  create
negative Elementals that sow discord and confusion in and around
us.  So  the  fewer  Elementals  created  under  these  conditions  the
better. Typically no matter what you do or how hard you try to
explain something to a person you are in an argument with, you
will not change their mind. You will be either attacked or ignored
and so it becomes futile. However, this is still a great opportunity
to teach you to remain calm and observe how the other person
thinks. But this requires mastery of your thoughts and emotions,
which is really a Concentration and Observation exercise.
Each day we get hundreds and hundreds of opportunities to
learn like this and the most valuable part is to be able to carry out a
detached  self-examination  of  our  own  behavior.  Let’s  say
someone’s  behavior  to  us  is  off  and  very  disagreeable.  The
common person’s response is to feel they are being mistreated. So
when you have the thought or hear a voice rise up from your sub-
consciousness saying that: “I am being mistreated,” or “You are
being mistreated,” and that you should speak up...please don’t.
This is where your strength lies. Keep quiet and silence that voice
from your sub-consciousness. What will happen if you do that? If
you research conditions and study them in this way, much to your
amazement you will eventually realize that you are not who you
thought you were. You will discover you are not the wounded or
offended egoism who feels mistreated, you are something much,

much greater than all that.
You will also find that your Sub Conscious mind is like an
untamed  wilderness  full  of  harsh  emotional  beasts  as  well  as
beautiful song birds. And both find expression in your conscious
mind. But we should consciously choose which of these we give
expression to. It may not seem obvious at the moment, but really
the only one that can mistreat us is our own egoism. Egoism is the
only one who is feeling mistreated and screams at others. It is the
egoism  who  is  mistreating  your  Inner  Self  and  sometimes  other
people  in  your  life.  We  can  see  this  in  others  too;  in  how
victimizers so often cry that they are the victims of other people.
When you see this kind of behavior in others, and in yourself, do
not  judge  just  calm  down.  The  egoism  in  you  and  in  others
sometimes behaves like a temperamental child, but if you blame
and slap it will not help at all. No matter how bad tempered yours
or any personality becomes; conflict is not the answer, love and
calmness are needed. By reason and correct suggestions from the
Inner  Self  we  can  succeed  to  improve  the  situation.  The
personality often behaves like a child, but like a child, when it is
calm it will accept suggestions.

THE PRACTICE: OVERVIEW
Practicing  Introspection  using  comparison  is  a  scientific
approach in which we discern the Inner Self from its shadow, our
personality. Our personality is subject to time, space and place
and  has  its  own  consciousness  and  sub-consciousness.  On  the
positive side, the calm aligned personality likes to feel that it is this
Inner Self. And in full attunement – it is. On the negative side our
personal egoism likes to deceive and masquerade as the Inner Self.
So  when  we  do  our  research  with  the  practice  of
Introspection, we must be careful not to allow our own egoism to
distort the truth and deceive us. When we begin, we must be clear
as to which one is the egoism and which one is the Inner Self. It
will be the personality which is under the examination of the Inner
Self during introspection. So we need to separate our identification
of the Inner Self from the personality, which is its reflection in
time and place. This separation is important in order to be able to
compare the two. When you are able to make this separation, you
find you are not a stressful, suffering being but a rational being
with love, wisdom and strength that can make real progress in life.
But when the personality starts to split, a clash occurs. This
clash is only a conflict within the personality. The Inner Self does
not  struggle  and  rebuke  its  projection,  the  personality.  On  the
contrary, the Inner Self acts like a loving mother who advises and
corrects the personality in order to one day be able to assimilate
with  it.  Do  not  make  the  mistake  to  think  the  practice  of
introspection is just studying your desires and interests in life that
please your personality and then continue to live in your usual
manner. This is not Introspection but self-deception, self-delusion.
Real  Introspection  is  positive,  logical  and  produces  noticeable
results.  Not  everyone  is  practicing  Introspection  in  exactly  the
same way because the environment and circumstances of their life
are not the same for everyone. The problems are similar but the
specific details are different for different people. The problems of
getting  hurt,  feeling  offended  and  carrying  guilt  is  a  common
experience to all. But what it is that specifically makes someone

feel wounded, offended and guilty differs from person to person.
Our aim in understanding this dynamic in us is to be free from
our misconception that our personality self is the real Self. And to
do this we must take action in researching our heart, mind and in
improving our behaviors within our current circumstances. Again,
this requires that we be able to make the distinction between our
personality self from the Inner Self, otherwise we will not change
and  make  much  progress.  The  method  that  really  makes  any
person change is that of comparison. To help others we can only
use the method of comparison; to show them a better way and
conditions so that one may freely choose. Unfortunately, as visible
and  Invisible  Helpers  learn,  only  about  twenty  percent  of  the
people will take this help and make a real change.
Again, we cannot know the Absolute Truth but we can know
the relative truth and how much of it corresponds to the Absolute
Truth. And we learn the relative truth by the comparison between
two things, two people or two conditions. There is no other way.

PRACTICE: INTROSPECTION BY COMPARISON
Breathe deeply and feel you are completely in your material body.
While feeling your material body, ask yourself the question: Who
am I now, concentrating and feeling my material body?
Try to find your real Self, your “I-ness” and not the personality self
that bears your name.
Breathe deeply and feel that you are in your material body.
Love your material body.
Simply feel you are inside your body and completely relaxed. Every
muscle should be relaxed.
Now, you have to make two thoughts and compare. What is this
material body that I can feel and who am I, who can feel and move
my material body?
Now start your comparison between you and your body
Your body is not you. Your body is yours to live in.
Your material body is your temporary home.
The Holy Spirit is caring for it and keeping it in good order,
circulating the blood, providing it with warmth and vitality.
That is not you as a personality doing this work.
Now compare your body with the heart of your personality – the
Inner Self. That sense of I-ness you are now. That sense of I-ness
you have always been.
Your body is yours.
Your personality is your creation.
And you are you.
But what are you?
Try to understand what you are.
What you are is a god but this god is living in a bodily form.
Just compare these two, enter deeply in the meaning of it and
ascend the ladder of relative truth.

Chapter Twenty-Two
THE TRUTH ABOUT MYTHS
 
We have said that in the class of Elementals called desire thought
forms which range from the most unclean and nightmarish to the
most foolish, harmless and innocent. We will study them and see
that we create quite a lot of them; we project them and place them in
our subconscious daily. I won’t ask you to dissolve them all at
once, it is not necessary. But we must do away with the harmful
ones. We will start dissolving them, particularly those which give
us unhealthy feelings in that great Elemental called Egoism, which
are; anger, aggression, the feeling of being offended, the feeling of
being wounded, lying, blaming and back biting. We must study all
these and each one of you, with honesty to start going within
yourselves to research in that labyrinth (maze) and find that
frightening Minotaur. And like Thesus, it is your duty to kill the
Minotaur.
 
Believe me, you have within you a horrifying beast (minotaur)
which you gave birth to and you are obliged to kill him before you
move on. Other Elementals seem like playthings in front of this
Minotaur, a most frightful Elemental which we must overpower,
and neutralize. And then we will see what good Elementals we have
created within us because you must not despair, you have built
good Elementals too, but you need to develop them further. We
must learn how, through creative thought, which is: to project an
Elemental of thought desire form. To project consciously powerful
images with which we can build a better world. It is our obligation
to build a better world. ~Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
The  first  caveman  who  began  to  wonder:  “Who  am  I  and
where  am  I,”  was  researching  the  truth. At  that  time  the  first
humans were living in caves behaving in a mostly instinctual way.
They had a rudimentary form of self-consciousness but they were
not behaving much differently than all the animals around them.
However,  mankind  had  a  distinct  advantage  over  the  animals
because they had the possibility of using the Mind and developing
their self-consciousness. But the animals only have the Mind as
instinct.
Mankind  slowly  began  to  use  the  Mind  and  develop  a
primitive self-consciousness, which in time evolved into the range
of self-consciousness we see in our society today. Since animals
cannot use the Mind directly their consciousness has not changed
at  all. A  bear  today  is  behaving  as  all  the  bear  from  the  past
behaved. Although we do see some adaption of bodily forms in
certain species, this was driven by their changing environment and
not an evolution in their consciousness. An ape is behaving in the
same way today as they did a hundred thousand years ago. This is
obvious.
However mankind at this time, even in its embryonic state of
self-consciousness, was able to use the Mind to increase its level of
awareness and become more and more self-conscious. During this
period, humans and animal lived in a very dangerous world. And
when we look at the animal life we see that the Divine Intelligences
gave different types of protection to different animals. A lion has
physical  strength,  teeth  and  claws,  a  rabbit  has  its  incredible
swiftness,  and  a  turtle  has  its  shell  and  so  on.  What  about
mankind? What did God give to mankind to protect it? The Mind!
Mankind has the ability to use the mind as reason and intelligence
to protect itself.
Living precariously in this hostile environment with very little
resources, the cavemen felt the need to create gods to protect them
and believed they helped them. And they were right in the belief
that those gods were protecting them. What they did not realize

was that they themselves were the ones creating these gods. In
reality these gods were Elementals and the cavemen created them
subconsciously. These Elemental gods became more powerful than
the people who created them, because they were strengthened over
long  periods  of  time  by  the  energy  of  all  the  people  who
worshiped them. This gave these created gods their own existence
and life. And these gods of the past, that still exist today, did help
their creators.
They still exist today in the Cosmic Consciousness, but they
are  inactive  because  people  stopped  worshiping  and  energizing
them. At the time they were active but now they are no longer in
use, and yet they are still traceable as inactive Elementals in the
cosmic memory (which is everywhere). They can still be contacted
and their nature studied if one is able to raise his consciousness to
the  level  of  Self-Super-Consciousness.  They  are  recorded
permanently in the cosmic consciousness, which is really just the
memory of God. Those gods of the past were man made. This is
what materialists say and they are right.
Daskalos once had this conversation with some atheists who
were visiting him from Russia. When he agreed with them that man
made these anthropomorphic gods of the past, he then asked them
but who made man and his thinking personality?
They replied: “circumstances, coincidences and matter”.
He said: “That is not good enough”.
They argued saying: “But matter has made all the animals,
trees, living forms of life and human beings”.
Daskalos explained that a human being is the offspring of God
and as such is a god.
They replied: “The Hindus say that and the Christians are
claiming that too”.
Daskalos retorted in his usual witty way asking them: “Do
you think all these people were claiming something stupid and now
you are the only wise ones?”
Because the gods were created by the people they tended to
ascribe  their  own  faults,  vices  and  weaknesses  to  their  created
gods. And yet any god ever created still exists in the Absolute

Beingness.  These  gods  were  created  by  Mind  and  continue  to
reside  within  the  cosmic  memory  of Absolute  Beingness.  This
means that when primitive cultures anywhere in the world kneel
down and pray to a crude, ugly wooden form of a god, they are
still worshiping Absolute Beingness without understanding it.
When  people  from  modern  so-called  civilized  societies  see
this,  they  call  such  people  idolaters.  But  this  is  wrong  since
everything is of God and from God, whether they know that or
not. The people still need to believe they have the protection of
intelligences and powers higher than themselves. That was a need
of mankind since the time of the caveman. And it really was a
necessity.
But Christians consider themselves as Non-Idolaters and yet
in  the  Roman  Catholic  and  Orthodox  services  they  pray  to  the
saints  and  display  icons  of  them.  You  can  see  people  in  the
Orthodox Church kiss these icons as part of their worship of the
saints.  Then  in  the  16
th
  century  the  so-called  reformers,  in  a
reaction to the rituals of the church doctrines, protested and thus
became known as the Protestants. They protested and criticized
the church for its devotion to Mother Mary, the Christian saints
and  removed  them  from  their  newly  formed  Protestant  religion.
From  this  point  Christianity  became  increasingly  fractured  and
splintered  until  today  we  have  over  250  different  man  made
Christian factions.
And it was a mistake to remove the devotion to the saints and
Mother  Mary  because  people  were  benefited  by  this  form  of
worship. Mother Mary is the earthly mother of Joshua Immanuel
the  Christ.  The  person  Mary  reflected  the  truenature  of
motherhood,  which  was  a  principleeven  before  the  birth  of  the
Virgin  Mary  who  gave  birth  to  Christ. And  in  her  purity  she
perfectly  reflected  this  Mother-principle  that  is  the  universal,
Absolute Femininity of the Holy Spirit. Now the cavemen, who
out of necessity and fear of the natural world created with their
thought, superior beings to protect them. Man can do this because
he can use the Mind directly, but no animal ever created a god to
protect them. The conditions on earth at the time of the caveman

were extremely difficult. If we had to live that way, we would
perish very quickly.
So the men and women at that time were living in caves and
found life in that world harsh and unfriendly. There were many
active  volcanoes  spewing  forth  red-hot  lava  and  smoke  that
blocked  the  light  from  the  sun,  which  created  a  choking
atmosphere. There were horrific weather patterns, which created
violent storms that lasted for very long periods of time. Great and
frequent  earthquakes,  causing  mountains  to  rise  and  fall  killing
people in the process.
The cavemen and cavewomen both had to carry heavy clubs
to protect themselves from other cavemen, cannibals and the large
carnivorous beast who sought to eat each other and man in order to
survive.  The  caveman’s  primitive  self-consciousness  used  the
Mind  only  to  protect  him  and  satisfy  his  crude  but extremely
strong emotions. Threatened by the dangers around him he created
gods  to  muster  up  the  courage  needed  to  live  in  these  hellish
environments. And so mankind created gods for the sun, moon,
fire, water, wind and lightning and all the forces of nature. To these
he  gave  names  and  sometimes  the  Human  Form  and  sometimes
animal forms.
When these Elemental-type gods were worshiped over time
by many people it gave strength and intelligence to the Elemental.
And  these  Elementals  could  then  influence  their  worshipers
producing  tangible  experiences.  Seeking  to  preserve  these
experiences  early  man  began  to  create  symbols  to  record  their
experiences for themselves and future generations. And so we see
early cave paintings showing symbols and pictographs from the
distant  past.  Then  later  these  symbols  and  pictographs  were
carved in stone like in ancient Egyptian and Mayan cultures.
The benefit of symbols was that they allowed the meaning of
ideas  and  events  to  be  preserved,  then  remembered  and  passed
down to future generations. By combining the symbols early man
was able to express his beliefs in a succession of thoughts. The
first symbols were: straight lines, lines in congruence with other
lines, intersecting lines, triangles, curves and circles. These symbols

were also creating Elementals and were the forerunner of the early
alphabetical  languages,  which  evolved  into  other  languages.  For
example the ancient mid-eastern Aramaic language came from the
Egyptian  hieroglyphic  writings.  And  the  Hebrew  and  Arabic
languages came from the Aramaic language.
Soon early man began to consider their relationship with the
animals all around them. They admired them for their abilities and
powers and began to worship them as gods. The bear was one of
the first gods formally worshiped by the primitive people, because
it was the most powerful thing in their world. This kind of animal
worship  continued  over  many  thousands  of  years.  The  ancient
Greeks, Hindus and Egyptians also developed a vast collection of
gods.  We  see  that  from  the  very  beginning  mankind  developed
multi  god  systems  of  worship.  These  polytheistic  systems
continued unchallenged until around 1350 BC. Then an Egyptian
pharaoh named Amemophis IV had an ecstatic, direct experience of
God. The pharaoh immediately disassociated himself and his rule
from the multi-god system and established the first monotheistic
system  worshiping  one  God.  He  called  the  one  supreme  God:
Aton, which means the incomprehensible. Amemophis IV and his
followers believed in one God – the God of Infinite Life. They
used the sun to represent this. They did not worship the material
sun that made life on earth possible, but the giver of life itself for
which the sun was a symbol.
After his experience the pharaoh changed his name to Ankh-
en-Aton,  which  means  the  servant  of  the  God  Aton.  And  he
changed  the  name  of  his  wife,  Nefertiti  to  Merit Aton  and  the
names of his nephew Khor Amon to Khor Aton. Later pharaoh
Akhenaton adopted the infant son of his cousin and named him
Tut-Ankh-Aton. Akhenaton  and  his  hierophants  started  a  new
system for the worship of the one omnipresent God. The giver of
all life. Unfortunately, Pharaoh Akhenaton was ahead of his time.
The existing thousand year old, multi-god religion of Egypt was
not ready for such a profound change. The leaders of the 42-god
system were not ready to give up their lucrative jobs as priests in
the old system. And so these priests conspired to put an end to

Akhenaton and his one God system. They killed his nephew Khor
Aton by stabbing him and they killed Akhenaton by poisoning.
His wife, who was also a high Hierophant in the system, had to
escape to the south of Egypt to save her life.
But the cunning leaders of this plot temporarily enthroned
Tut Ankh Aton, the remaining rightful heir to the kingdom, and
changed his name to Tut-ankh-amen. Today he is most commonly
known as King Tut. Then possibly as new evidence suggest, they
soon disposed of the 19-year-old boy king and the conspirators
put themselves in power. Then they got to work, and went all
through Egypt eradicating the names of Akhenaton and King Tut
from public record. They were so effective that the long line of
succeeding Egyptian pharaohs, as well as history in general, had no
idea Akhenaton and his adopted son King Tut even existed. It was
not  until  1922  with  the  discovery  of  King  Tut’s  tomb  that
knowledge of his existence came to light. Akhenaton’s murder, like
Socrates and Christ’s is often the reward to those who bring the
light of truth into a dark world of ignorance. This is also a reason
why enlightened ones in the past hid the truth in stories, parables
and myths.
The  truth  about  the  myths  used  in  the  ancient  mystery
schools is that they used myth as a metaphor. A metaphor is a
kind  of  figurative  language.  It  is  not  meant  as  an  exact  literal
account. A metaphor is a symbolic representation of some higher
truth or some deeper meaning. Today myth is generally considered
to  be  a  fictional  story.  Mythology  is  one  thing  and  fiction  is
another. In the myths used in the mystery schools we see both. In
the fictional aspect of these stories you can see things that really
did not take place but do convey a symbolic meaning. And in other
parts of the myths we find descriptions of real events. Together
they are allegories intended to convey spiritual truth and guidance.
So as researchers we can study the ancient myths for guidance
and instruction on our spiritual journey. And as students of any
spiritual system, we initially seek to comprehend the theoretical
framework of the spiritual teaching itself. And with some degree of
understanding of that teaching we then seek to put it into practice.

In doing so, we soon discover that our spiritual unfoldment comes
from the practice and integration of the teachings in our life, rather
than just knowing the teachings intellectually. When attempting to
integrate  spiritual  teachings  in  our  life  we  inevitably  encounter
difficulties and hindrances. Myths that are understood as spiritual
metaphors  provide  vivid  archetypal  imagery  depicting  the
predictable  obstacles  on  the  path  of  Self-Realization.  Their
dramatic and colorful narratives imprint their meaning and guidance
deep into the mind of the student, which can be recalled to guide
them during their own difficulties and tribulations.
One of the classic Christian Myths is the Arthurian legend of
the Quest for the Holy Grail. The Holy Grail is the cup Christ
drank  from  at  the  Last  Supper,  in  which  according  to  legend;
Joseph of Arimathea collected Christ’s blood after the crucifixion.
From  that  point  on,  the  Grail  was  believed  to  have  miraculous
properties. Joseph of Arimathea is the one who gave his tomb for
Christ’s  burial  and  purportedly  brought  the  Holy  Grail  with
Christianity to Britain.
The Quest for the Holy Grail story begins in Britain in the
twelfth century with King Arthur and his Knights of the Round
Table. After numerous adventures and great accomplishments, the
knights were getting a little bored and decided they should embark
on  a  new  adventure.  Being  brave  heroic  knights  they  chose  the
ultimate  quest  of  all:  the  search  for  the  life-giving  Holy  Grail.
According to their creed, a true knight had to find his own way on
his journey and could not follow the path of another. It would have
been a disgrace for one of these knights to try and follow in the
exact  steps  of  another  knight  on  such  an  important  quest.
Metaphorically, this is an important point for those seeking Self-
Realization.
Ultimately we must make our own journey toward our goal.
Masters, teachers, brother guides and books can light the way to
Self-Realization. But to succeed in our quest, we must follow our
own unique path. The destination is the same for all of us but our
journey to get there will be uniquely our own. In this story, only
one of the knights actually finds the Holy Grail. The others lose

their way, become distracted, leave the search, or are killed. The
one  who  finds  the  Grail,  in  most  versions  of  this  myth,  is  the
knight  called  Percival.  His  name,  Percival,  means  the  “one  who
pierces the valley.” A valley is a place in between two opposite
mountains.  So  metaphorically  the  person,  who  can  succeed  in
reaching Christ’s cup of life, is the one who can penetrate between
the extremes of duality and go beyond the domain of conceptual
good and evil.
This Metaphor instructs the seeker of truth to take the middle
path and not swing back and forth between the diametric poles
such as aversions and longings. Or as Christ put it: “If therefore
your eye be single, your whole body shall be full of light”. Duality
belongs to the temporary Worlds of Existence (material, Psychical
and Noetical). Our source and ultimate destination is, was and will
always be in the non-dual realm of Beingness. Beingness is beyond
duality with its twin expressions of relative good and evil, light and
dark. For a seeker of truth the Grail Cup story is an inspiring and
practical Myth that provides guidance for us on many levels. And
historically, teachers and religions have always used stories and
parables to convey their teachings to the often uneducated masses.
In Biblical Palestine, Joshua Immanuel the Christ used parables to
veil his teachings from those opposing it while revealing it to those
with, “Ears to hear.”
In  the  ancient  Mystery  Schools  of  Greece  and  Egypt,
spiritual candidates were given myths as metaphors to meditate on
in  order  to  accelerate  their  spiritual  unfoldment.  These
Myth/Metaphors serve as practical guidance during the process of
spiritual  unfoldment  or  what  the  ancients  called  the  Hero’s
Journey. In past times, spiritual candidates were often removed
from  the  world,  cloistered  in  a  monastery  and  concentrated
primarily on their spiritual life. This was done in part to isolate the
aspirant from the coarser vibrations of the world so that they could
more easily become aware of and attune to more refined spiritual
vibrations. Today, however, most spiritual seekers are still engaged
in worldly efforts and family activities while trying to tread the
spiritual path. In this condition, worldly and spiritual vibrations

can become mixed and cause confusion. In addition, today’s seeker
has an over-abundance of material to study and consider. When
haphazardly  done,  this  too  can  cause  confusion  and  a  kind  of
theoretical  congestion.  Yet,  when  rightly  understood  classical
spiritual myths dispel confusion and serve as a reliable guide for
the seekers of truth today.
Another such story used in the Greek Mystery Schools was
that of the Cretan Minotaur. The Minotaur was a raging monster
with  the  head  of  a  bull  and  the  body  of  a  man.  It  represented
uncontrollable  lusts  and  powerful  egoistic  expressions  in
humankind. The Minotaur was the offspring of Poseidon’s Bull
and King Mino’s wife. The offspring of that union was so hideous
King Minos built a huge and complicated underground labyrinth-
prison for the deadly monster to dwell in. This maze of chambers
was so complex that it was impossible to navigate it without help.
To  satisfy  the  beast’s  ravenous  appetite,  King  Minos  would
release seven girls and seven boys into the maze for the monster to
devour.
At this time the hero of our story, Theseus, hears about the
sacrifice  of  the  seven  boys  and  seven  girls  went  to  Crete  and
volunteered to take the place of one of the boys in hopes of slaying
the Minotaur and saving future generations of children. Prior to
entering the labyrinth, the hero Theseus, meets and falls in love
with Ariadne, the daughter of king Minos. Because of her love for
Theseus, she shows him a map of the maze and gives him a ball of
twine to tie to the entrance of the labyrinth so he can find his way
back out. So the next day, Theseus unrolled the ball of string as he
entered  the  gloomy  darkness  of  the  Minotaur’s  maze.  Theseus
made his way over the bones of the previous victims, found the
Minotaur, killed it, and escorted the other sacrificial youths out of
the maze by following the string back to the entrance.
This  Myth  metaphorically  represents  the  essential  task  of
any spiritual seeker who enters into the maze of their own sub-
consciousness. There they will find their destructive egoism that
has been consuming the Etheric Vitality of their own seven energy
centers (Chakras). The seven youths, symbolize the seven prime

Chakras. And  just  like  Theseus,  we  need  help  if  we  are  to  be
successful in completely eliminating our own egoism. This help can
come from spiritual teachings; or it can come from a brother guide
who loves us and is willing to lead us. But this help, symbolized
by  the  princess  Ariadne,  can  and  does  come  from  our  own
Guardian Angel, who stands ready to show us the way out of the
maze  of  our  own  confusion  and  into  the  light  of  Truth.  The
Minotaur of our own egoism continuously tries to lead us away
from the light and into the darkness of its convoluted lair where it
has  the  advantage.  Our  own  hero’s  journey  requires  that  we
neutralize this inner adversary and find our way back out of the
labyrinth and into the light.
A similar western myth that addresses this same fundamental
challenge is Saint George and the Dragon. This and other legends
have  different  versions  and  levels  of  interpretation.  But  to  the
seeker of truth, this myth depicts the internal struggle to overcome
his  or  her  egoism.  Here  the  dragon  represents  uncontrolled
egocentric desires and unbridled emotions. In this image there is a
lake of water and a woman that is held hostage by the dragon. Saint
George is shown riding a white horse and killing the dragon with a
spear. So unless you believe there were real dragons in Christian
history, then this myth is a metaphor with symbolic meaning. In
this story, Saint George represents our inner Self-Aware Soul. The
woman, who Saint George saves from the dragon, represents our
personality, which has been enslaved by the dragon of egoism. The
horse represents our material body; while the spear represents the
proper use of Mind as reason, intelligence and will-power. It is by
using  Mind  as  reasonable  thought  that  we  put  an  end  to  wild
emotions and endless desires. It is through the use of our mind that
our emotions are calmed, cleaned and mastered.
Now we come to our teaching on the Symbol of Life. The
symbol  of  life  as  a  means  and  methodology;  has  been  used  by
spiritual seekers for many, many thousands of years. It charts a
way  of  progressing  from  material  mindedness  of  the  three
dimensional world, to the fourth dimensional Psychical Worlds, on
to  the  fifth  dimensional  Noetical  Worlds  and  beyond.  As  a

methodology, the old Greek myth of the twelve labors of Hercules
is initially used to help the seeker make his first steps. And the
practice is to visualize each of the twelve labors many times in
order  to  help  us  understand  and  overcome  certain  elements  in
ourpersonality that are serious obstacles blocking our way. It is a
simple and effective way to learn about and conquer weaknesses
found  in  every  personality. And  the  first  two  labors  are  very
important for any spiritual seeker if they expect to see significant
results.  The  first  labor  is  to  kill  the  lion  of  Nemea,  which
represents anger and wrath. Every person should be on the watch
for anger to rise up and present itself. And we are expected not
only to kill it, but find the causes which create it and exterminate
the causes.
I knew a woman who was sure she did not have any anger in
her.  Then  she  had  children.  Her  life  circumstances  changed  and
placed  new  demands  on  her  patience  and  tolerance.  Then  she
discovered that she did have anger but it had been slumbering in her
Sub Consciousness and awakened under new challenges in her life.
So we must kill this monster in us. We ourselves must use our real
will power to strangle the lion of our anger. Which is to say that no
matter what the provocation, the seeker of truth must not let anger
be expressed through his or her personality.
One afternoon, several hours after a Stoa lesson I was sitting
with  Daskalos  and  he  told  me  that  a  new  person  came  to  the
lecture that day. After the lesson he came and told Daskalos that
he  made  mistakes  and  should  have  said  this  and  that.  Daskalos
advised me that, “People coming to you will wronglycriticize what
you are doing and you may just feel the urge to react and maybe
slap  them.  But  you  must  not,  instead  just  say  thank  you.”
Daskalos  finished  by  saying,  “A  Researcher  of  Truth  is  not
allowed to haveanger for anyone, even those that treat us like their
enemy.”
Now in this myth Hercules strangles the lion to death and
then cuts its head off and then places it on his head. The symbolic
reason for this action is that cunning people must not know that a
seeker of truth is harmless. Because there are opportunist around

us that might try to take advantage of our harmlessness. In this
case it is ok to raise the tone of your voice but under no conditions
should we lose control of our emotions.
The Buddhists teach this in their own symbolic story about a
vicious snake that terrorised a village. The people were afraid to go
even close to where this snake lived because it would aggressively
attack and bite them. One day the villagers sought the help of a
monk. They told him the story and he said he would try to help.
So he went to the snake and began to explain that man was really
abrother to the snake. And how the snake must never bite man
who is his brother. This was no ordinary snake and it understood
the monk’s teaching and promised never to bite anyone again. A
week or so later the monk was passing by where the snake lived
and found the snake beaten, bleeding and near death. The monk
rushed to the snake and asked what had happened. The snake said:
“I  never  should  have  listened  to  you  because  when  the  people
found out I would no longer bite; they threw rocks and beat me
with sticks”. To which the monk replied,”I told you not to bite but
I didn’t say you could not hiss.”
So in our meditation on the first labor we examine and know
what causes the feelings of anger in people and especially in our
self. Some of these causes arise when we feel that something we
want  is  taken  from  us.  Or  when  something  we  do  not  want  is
forced on us. So it can be the loss of something that awakens anger.
Or experiencing something we do not want can awaken it. And
even getting what you want in this life will cause suffering because
sooner or later it will pass from us. Even when we lose something
we love by the natural order in life, like in the case of the death of
an elderly loved one, we will still suffer loss and by suffering loss a
slumbering lion of anger within us can be awakened.
The most common and most dangerous catalystsfor anger are
the feeling of being offended by people and its twin spirit, the
feeling of being hurt by people. Now we should contemplate what
happens after a lion of anger becomes active in someone. Just think
what a ferocious lion can do. And what can a person who is under
the  influence  of  wrathful  anger  do? Much!  In  the  myth  it  says

weapons were useless against this lion. The weapons are a symbol
of helpful Elementals we might try to use to stop this lion of anger.
But even good Elementals cannot kill anger in us. Instead our hero,
Hercules, must get a hold ofthe lion and strangle it to death. This is
showing that it is only thereal willpower that can suffocate and
killanger in the personality; it cannot be eliminated in any other
way.
So the hero Hercules must come forth and kill it, only then
canhe can cut the skin and head off, clean it and put it on his own
head. Then Hercules goes back to the king’s palace wearing the lion
head and skin and everyone was terrified and hid under tables or
ran away. This part means that after we kill anger in us we have to
sometimes dress in the skin and head of the lion so that others will
not take advantage of the quiet mind and loving heart of a seeker of
truth. When we put on the skin and head, others can see the teeth
of the dead lion but the head of a dead lion cannot bite others. This
is the point.
So we find great teachings and practical guidance hidden in
myths. The purpose of those who created the twelve labors of
Hercules myth was to show the way towards enlightenment and
Self-Realization and not just to invent children’s bedtime stories.

THE PRACTICE OVERVIEW
When we do the mystery school meditations on the twelve
labors of Hercules we are working in our Noetical workshop in our
mind, which is represented by center number ten on the Symbol of
Life.  Before  we  begin  we  sit  or  recline  in  a  comfortable  place,
feeling completely relaxed mentally, emotionally and physically.
We inhale and exhale in a steady, comfortable rhythmical pattern as
described before. Then in our mind’s eye we will construct the
environment in which the labor will take place. Visualize the entire
labor in great detail and observe the scene unfold. And then we
contemplate how the symbolic elements of the labors play out in
us and in our life.

THE PRACTICE: SLAYING THE HYDRA OF
DESIRE
This and other long practices can be recorded and played back
to yourself, or read by a friend as you visualize each of the steps in
the meditations. Each meditation should be done a number of times
to be able to see the details clearly and be able to enter deeply into
its meaning.
In the second labor of Hercules, he is ordered to locate and kill the
Lernaean Hydra, which was a large fat serpent with nine heads
that lived in a bad smelling marsh. The Hydra was devastating the
farmer’s crops and livestock near the town of Lerna. It was such a
foul poisonous creature that its breath could kill. So Hercules took
his cousin, Iolaus with him to hunt down and destroy the Hydra.
For this practice, in brief, we visualize the putrid swamp in a forest,
and Hercules as a strong man of action, with his cousin Iolaus as a
handsome young man. In your Noetical workshop, you will create
this whole scene in rich detail. Start by seeing Hercules forcingthe
Hydra from its home in the swamp by shooting flaming arrows into
the marsh.
As the beast emerges from the swamp on to the dry land in the
forest, visualize Hercules drawing his razor sharp dagger and
plunging it deep into the neck of the nine-headed Hydra. The huge
serpent  writhes  in  agony  shrieking  a  hideous  cry  as  Hercules
completely severs one of the heads from its massive body. The
moment the Hydra’s head is cut off; two more heads emerges from
the open wound and it was cured. Upon seeing this, Hercules’
companion,  Iolaus,  set  the  forest  on  fire  and  begins  to  hand
Hercules red-hot flaming brands each time Hercules cut off another
head. Hercules continued to sever the heads, burning the open
wound with Iolaus’ flaming brands before more heads can appear,
and thus Hercules kills the monster. Now see Iolaus and Hercules
digging a deep hole in the ground and burying the dead Hydra and
its severed heads thus completing the second labor.

The  Hydra  represents  our  lower  uncontrolled  desires.  Its
multiple heads represent the multifaceted kinds of desires we all
have. The swamp symbolizes our Sub Consciousness where the
serpent of our desires hides. Hercules represents our Soul Self and
Iolaus represents our Guardian Angel who helps in this labor. The
flaming brands given by Iolaus is the Mind fashioned as reasonable
thoughts, which can put an end to uncontrolled emotional desires.
The dagger used to cut off uncontrolled desires is our will power.
When  a  head  was  cut  off  of  the  Hydra  two  more  would
appear and this is the heart of the teaching of this labor. A desire is
just like the Hydra’s head. If you cut off one desire, two other
desires  will  appear  unless  the  mind-fire  of  reason  is  used  to
cauterize it preventing more desires to grow in its place. Now the
practice requires us to contemplate on the causes of our desires; to
meditate deeply on the unquenchable thirst for possessing things.
Of course desires for the necessary things in life are not bad. But to
be slaves of our desires just in order to possess more and more is
not necessary or good.
In deep meditation we visualize these scenes and the real life
situational  causes  that  activate  desires  in  us.  Then  we  visualize
other  people  under  the  control  of  strong  unbridled  desires.  A
person  controlled  by  passionate  desires  is  capable  of  lying,
cheating,  stealing,  attacking  people  and  even  killing  them  to  get
what  they  want.  So  we  repeat  this  visualization  exercise  many
times to find all the cases by which people become enslaved to
their  desires. And  how  by  mastering  unnecessary  desires  with
reasonable thoughts we can become free from any ardent unfulfilled
desires that will not leave us in peace, but continually rise from our
Sub Consciousness. And even if a desire is fulfilled, it loses its
power on us but is so quickly replaced by other desires. So we
analyse our unfulfilled desires in this light; to see if what they seem
to offer us is really worth all the trouble and cost needed for their
fulfilment. In this practice we come to understand what desires
really are and what the fulfilment of our desires really offer us.
Like in the Myth, when a Researcher of Truth decides to kill
the Hydra oftheir lower desires, his or her own Guardian Angel

comes  to  their  aid  offering  the  fire  of  reason  to  burn  up
uncontrolled  desires  in  their  personality. At  first  you  may  not
notice  this  help,  but  later  you  will  consciously  realize  the
Guardian’s relationship and powerful help. So we make the first
step  to  cut  off  unnecessary  desires  and  then  the  Guardian  will
come  forward  with  his  help.  After  completing  this  labor  the
Researcher of Truth well be stronger and in a better position to do
greater work.

Chapter Twenty-Three
THE DEAD AND THE SLEEPING
 
Are all people really living consciously now? I am telling you 90%
of the people are living subconsciously and they think that they are
living consciously. Now, as human beings are today, they are
living, I say – subconsciously. They don’t know it, because, they
cannot meditate – they cannot use self-consciously the Mind. What
was Joshua the Christ calling these common people all around us,
even in the so-called civilized countries? The Dead. Let the dead
bury their own dead! So, for Joshua the Christ the common people
all around then were considered dead and not really living, just as
they are today. What I am telling you, is that today, most people do
not liveand they only think they do. They do not know who they are
– for if they knew who they were everything would be very different.
The world, the gross material world, which although is the lowest
world, is beautiful and could be turned into a paradise, if human
beings knew who they were. They do not know.
 
And when a Researcher of the Truth decides to join the research
they do not say, Lord wait till I bury my father and then I will follow
you. Because he or she will hear: “You follow me and let the dead
bury their own dead.”“Follow me”, what does this mean? To leave
everything: our concerns, duties, and our family? Of course not. A
deserter returns to the place he or she has deserted. Each one is
where he/she belongs according to the Divine Laws of cause and
effect, in order to take his or her consequent lessons. Again, I
suggest that each one should have a New Testament as his or her
best friend and enter into the great, great meanings, especially of
the sayings of Joshua the Christ. ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
“The  child  is  not  dead  but  asleep”,  Joshua  Immanuel  the
Christ declared to Jairus and his family as they cried loudly over
the  death  of  his  daughter.  But  when  they  heard  Joshua’s
pronouncement, “...they all laughed him to scorn for they knew
she was dead.” Joshua excused the crowd of doubting friends and
family allowing only the departed girl’s mother, father, and three of
his closest companion disciples to stay. He took her by the hand
and said to her in Aramaic, “Talitha koum!” (Which means, Little
girl, I say to you, get up). “Immediately the twelve year old girl
stood  up  and  walked  around. At  this  they  all  were  completely
astonished.”It is interesting to note that in this biblical account,
when Joshua went to Jairus’ home to restore Life to the little girl’s
dead body, he would not allow all of his companion disciples to
come, just John, James & Peter. The reason for this is that when
doing healing work on a person it can be helpful to have loving
friends  present  who  wish  to  cooperate  in  the  healing  of  that
person. But also in healing work, if you have someone present who
doubts; his or her doubting thoughts (Elementals) may negatively
influence the healing work.
In the story of raising Lazarus from the dead, Joshua again
refers to someone whose material body had really died, as not dead
but only sleeping. He told his disciples: “Our friend Lazarus has
fallen  asleep;  but  I  am  going  there  to  wake  him  up.”  Joshua’s
metaphor  was  so  convincing  that  the  disciples  thought  he  was
talking about natural sleep. So the disciples replied: “...if he sleeps
then he will get better.”Seeing that his disciples completely missed
the point, Joshua had to plainly say: “Lazarus is dead, and for
your sake I am glad I was not there, so that you may believe. But
let us go to him.”
Lazarus  was  only  fifteen  years  old  at  this  time  and  had
already been cured of Epilepsy by Christ. Helived in Bethany with
his two sisters, Mary and Martha. By the time Joshua and the
disciples reached Bethany Lazarus had been dead for four days, his
body entombed in a cave and sealed by a large stone. As requested

by  Joshua  the  people  removed  the  large  stone  sealing  the
cave/tomb of Lazarus. Once it was removed, Joshua gave thanks to
his Heavenly Father for hearing his prayers. Then in a loud voice
Joshua called: “Lazarus, come out!” And Lazarus emerged from the
grave, his hands and feet wrapped and bound in strips of linen with
his face covered with a cloth. Joshua said: “Loose him and let him
go.”
Taken  from  an  exoteric  historical  perspective  this  is  an
important event in the short material life of Joshua in Palestine
some 2000 years ago. This miracle was visible proof of the truth of
Joshua’s oral teachings and demonstrated that he was sent by God.
But the underlying aim of this miracle was not just to reanimate a
perishable body but to inspire Faith in the people and show the
mercy of God in anundeniable way. And like his crucifixion and
resurrection Christ was proving the truth of his teachings that we
are not just a mortal body, but an immortal Soul that cannot be
harmed or killed. We would miss much of the deeper meanings if
we consider this to be only a historical record of a physical miracle.
Just before raising Lazarus, Christ pointed to the esoteric meaning
when he told Martha, the sister of Lazarus, “I am the resurrection
and the life. He who believes in me will live, even though he dies;
and whoever lives and believes in me will never die.”
Taken  from  an  esoteric  perspective,  this  account  has  deep
hidden meanings. Broadly speaking the meaning of this account is
that of a true spiritual awakening – the resurrection of humankind’s
Divine  Nature.  And  even  the  details  of  this  event  have  great
meaning to a Researcher of Truth today. First let us look at the
meaning of the name Lazarus. Lazarus is considered to be a form of
Eleazer,  which  means,”Whom  God  has  helped.”  Lazarus
symbolizes a personality that had become wrapped up, entangled
in materiality, unable to help himself that slumbers in the tomb of
its own sub-consciousness as if dead. And it takes the Divine Self,
to awaken one’s personality from its own symbolic death.
But  awakening  a  personality  living  an  imprisoned  life,
enmeshed in materiality and buried in deep sleep, is not an easy
endeavor. It takes a strong will and power to do this. Symbolically

this is stated in the story that Jesus called in a loud voice: “Lazarus
come out.” This loud voice represents the powerful vibration of
our own Divine Will Power calling and drawing our present-day
personality into higher states of consciousness leading to full Self-
Consciousness  (Self-Realization).  When  Lazarus  came  out  as
commanded he was still tied up, his hands and feet bound with
linen  strips.  These  represent  entanglements  which  ensnare  our
personality during our earthly lives and if left unchecked they can
ultimately induce a kind of spiritual coma. There is nothing wrong
in having material things especially when we use them for good.
However, being too wrapped up in material things is to become
their slave and that can put our spiritual life into deep, deep sleep.
Joshua had the people remove the large stone that was sealing
Lazarus in his cave and called him to come out. Those who live
their life strictly through a materially oriented consciousness have
unwittingly placed themselves in a grave-like shell while others of
like mind help seal them in with the stone of materiality. An overly
worldly life always places heavy burdens of materiality on a man
or  a  woman,  which  tends  to  suffocate  their  spiritual  life. And
today,  this  worldly  weight  seems  to  increase  in  quantity  and
complexity  daily.  A  person  living  only  in  this  way  can  be
considered spiritually dead; and yet they can be resurrected to real
life  by  the  call  of  the  Divine  within  them.  Now  upon  seeing
Lazarus coming from his tomb still wrapped in his grave clothes,
Joshua  said:  “Loose  him  and  let  him  go.”  This  represents  the
release of the personality from its material bondage and suffering,
with the restoration of its freedom to express its life anew. Notice
how in both cases Joshua calls to the people present (Lazarus’
worldly companions) to remove the stone of materiality and the
wrappings  of  entanglements.  These  were  the  same  people  who
wrapped  Lazarus  in  these  bonds  and  sealed  his  tomb  with  the
massive stone. Sometimes worldly companions help bind and hold
us to materiality. But once a personality has heard, understood and
truly answered the call from its Divine Nature, no material thing
can bind them.
The part of this story about the sisters of Lazarus, Martha

and Mary, also contains a valuable teaching. Martha’s personality
was an overly busy and outwardly focused. Martha symbolizes a
worldly activity and material consciousness. Conversely, Mary’s
approach to life symbolizes a spiritual consciousness with a more
inwardly contemplative focus.
The account says: “She [Martha] had a sister called Mary,
who sat at the Lord’s feet listening to what he said. But Martha
was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made. She
came to him and asked, “Lord, don’t you care that my sister has
left me to do the work by myself? Tell her to help me!”
“Martha, Martha,” Joshua answered, “you are worried and
upset about many things, but only one thing is needed. Mary has
chosen what is better and it will not be taken away from her.”Both
the  “Martha”  and  “Mary”  types  of  expressions  are  necessary.
Without outward work nothing gets done. Without inner devotion,
and  spiritual  receptivity;  outward  work  alone  becomes  a  dry,
mechanical chore. The message in the above quote is to becareful
not to over value outer, worldly activities to the detriment of an
inner spiritual life.
Then again at Lazarus’ tomb we see Martha expressing the
material view. When Joshua asked that the stone which had sealed
Lazarus’ in his tomb for days be removed, the practical Martha
immediately saw a problem and pointed it out by saying to Joshua:
“Lord,  by  this  time  he  stinks:  for  he  hath  been  dead  four
days.”Joshua replied: “Said I not unto thee, that, if thou would
believe, thou should see the glory of God?”Here, the worldly mind
as expressed by Martha could only perceive the perishable, the
corrupting material body of her brother. Joshua, on the other hand,
saw  beyond  the  perishable  material  body,  all  the  way  to  the
incorruptible, imperishable Soul and called it back.
The historical account of this event ends with the high Jewish
priests deciding to have Lazarus killed before word of Lazarus’
resurrection  spread  throughout  Israel  and  strengthened  Joshua’s
following.  Fortunately  Joshua  persuaded  Lazarus,  Martha  and
Mary to make a quick escape to Cyprus before that happened.
Later in the town of Larnaca, Cyprus Lazarus is appointed Bishop

by Saints Barnabas and the disciple Mark. Here Lazarus lives for
another 30 years. In Larnaca there is a ninth century Baroque style
church dedicated to Lazarus that was restored in the seventeenth
century. It is built over Lazarus’ final resting place. If you go into
the church’s crypt beneath the sanctuary, you will find Lazarus
sarcophagus. Bones reportedly from Lazarus body are on display
and people come to touch them for inspiration in remembrance of
Lazarus’ resurrection.
The meaning of this story transcends all religions. It is not
limited to Christianity but is a universal experience of the human
condition. This call from Christ to Lazarus in the grave is symbolic
of the clarion call by everyone’s Spirit-Soul to their personality.
This call is, was and will always be sounded. However, it is up to
us to be ready at all times and in all places to hear that call and
answer. Even in the brief history of psychology, we see leaders
such  as  Carl  Jung  (1875-1961)describe  this  higher  call  as  the
Transformational Impulse within the human psyche. And when we
quiet our thoughts, still our emotions we can hear this call from
home and tangibly feel something very high within us drawing us
back to our Divine Nature.
Now we come to a bit of a paradox. In the previous stories,
we see Christ referring to those whose material bodies had died, as
not dead but only sleeping. In this next account Joshua calls those
whose bodies are still alive “The Dead”. When a man approached
Christ and said to Him: “I want to follow you, but my father and
mother are living. I will wait until the pass over and then I will
follow you.” And Christ replied to him saying, “Follow me now
and let the dead bury their own dead.”But when Christ said: “Let
the dead bury their own dead,” he meant that when we hear the call
to follow God; we should not hesitate or postpone answering it
because of our earthly relationships. Christ said: “Anyone who
loves  his  father  or  mother  more  than  me  is  not  worthy  of  me;
anyone who loves his son or daughter more than me is not worthy
of me.” Of course Joshua was not making an egoistic statement
here. And he was not saying that we shouldn’t love our family
very dearly. But he was making an important point that we should

not place earthly relationships ahead of our own relationship to
God. Too many people live a subconscious, mundane life loitering
about on earth often like sleepwalkers. They do not lift their eyes
up from their habitual material patterns to seek something higher.
These are the ones Joshua refers to as, The Dead (spiritually dead
at this time). And relationships with the dead should not be given
exclusive priority over cultivating our own spiritual life – this is
the point. And it is the same today as it was in Christ’s time. The
majority of people today are not really living. They don’t know
the higher Self, but the research of truth reveals this knowledge of
Self and in finding that, we gain everything else. The Kingdom of
God, the Kingdom of the Heavens is in the Inner, Divine Nature of
each one of us. Find that and everything else will be ours. This was
Christ’s  advice:  “Seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his
righteousness;  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you.”
Without true knowledge of the Self, knowledge of the world will
never satisfy you.
In the Lord’s Prayer we say, “Thy Kingdom come.” But we
should not wait passively for that to happen, we must try and
bring this Kingdom to Earth, but where exactly? It is not to be
located in a certain place on Earth, but in each of us. And we have a
valuable system for researching the truth which have given us bona
fide saints and Self Realized masters that reached the high level of
Self-Super-Consciousness. Engaging in the System for the Research
of Truth we have definite aims and objectives. The first is to get to
know  who  we  are  as  a  personality  through  experience,
Introspection and Observation. The second is to find what we are
as a Soul and as Life. And thirdly we advance in our understanding
of God, the Logos and the Holy Spirit. Gaining knowledge of the
Soul Self also gives you knowledge of God. Knowledge of God also
gives you knowledge of the Soul Self. And as we progress overtime
this knowledge unfolds into wisdom.
We  gain  knowledge  when  we  concentrate  on  a  particular
subject and we begin a sequence of thoughts. When we focus on
something we actually are casting Noetical Light, mental light on it
and  that  gives  us  information  and  impressions,  which  when

analyzed yields knowledge about that object. Wisdom is different
than knowledge, but knowledge leads to wisdom. Wisdom is what
each object of our study has to offer us and through assimilation
with it, we become the wisdom of it. With knowledge we are in
duality, there are two distinct points: you and the object of your
attention  and  focus: I and it.  With  wisdom,  there  is  only  one
point: I am it.
In the early stages we get to know about God through the
keys  of  Meditation  and  Concentration,  then  later  through
assimilation. Similarly we first get to know about our Inner Self by
study and then by assimilating our personality with the Inner Self.
Through  Introspection  we  come  to  identify  and  compare  these
two; the personality and the Inner Self. And we find the common
point  between  them,  which  is  awareness:  the  personality  self-
awareness and the Inner Self-Awareness. So first we get knowledge
and then wisdom. And once we advance to this point no one can
take wisdom away from us. But our knowledge can be taken away
by  a  persuasive  argument  contrary  to  the  knowledge  we  have
acquired.
In reaching Self-Realization, who are we then? Clearly we are
not just a personality with strengths and weaknesses that often is
in confusion. In Self Realization we find what we are now and
always have been – the Soul. To unfold yourself and feel being the
Soul, you are not losing your personality self. Unfolding yourself
within you means you are gaining and not losinganything. You still
remain you even as a personality with its name, but now your
expressions  in  life  will  be  different  since  you  will  no  longer  be
guided by weaknesses, fears and lower desires. But even if you
want to remember shadowy experiences from before you can, but
who would want to? Once you see the light, no one will want to go
back into the mental darkness of illusions. It is like being ill with
the flu, once you recover you do not want to go back and feel ill
again.
We can remain asleep to the greater reality of life and pass
from this world and the next like a sleepwalker living habitually.
We can continue this way for lifetimes, but not forever. Sooner or

later we begin to awaken; slowly at first and then we start to live
more and more consciously in our daily life. But what happens
during the night when our material body is sound asleep on our
bed? What is sleep? Each night our personality withdraws from its
material body and enters its Pyscho-Noetical Body for a number of
hours. During this period the Holy Spirit rejuvenates the material
body through the Creative Ether and makes repairs for our benefit.
But where do we, as self-awareness, go during this time when
we are not in our material body? You could be just ten feet away,
in terms of locality, dreaming in your Psychical Body. The average
person has not developed their Psychical Body to the point of
being able to use it independently to consciously express itself as
self-awareness in the Psychical Worlds. Since most people do not
try to strengthen and develop their Psychical Body by using their
mental body (Noetical Body), they are like a sleepwalker in the
Psychical Worlds too. Because of this, their Psychical Body does
not become active. So this is our work, to activate the functioning
of  our  Psychical  and  Noetical  Bodies.  If  we  did  not  use  our
material body it would atrophy and not function properly. It is the
same with the Psychical and Noetical Bodies. Human beings are
given these three bodies and are meant to use them. Of course we
all  know  how  to  develop  and  use  our  material  body  through
healthy  living  and  exercise.  And  we  have  specific  meditation
exercises that we can use to develop our Psychical and Noetical
Bodies. As we become more alert and conscious during our daily
life  we  automatically  become  more  conscious  in  the  Psychical
Worlds. And you will find that you will start to wake up in the
Psychical Worlds during your dreams and realize you are dreaming.
This is a beginning.
The Kingdom of the Heavens are worlds within worlds that
we  should  become  conscious  of,  and  live  consciously  in.  Some
people say they dream others say they do not dream. Some dreams
are frightful nightmares, some dreams are illogical, other dreams are
logical and still others can be prophetic. The problem is that we do
not know the way to bring back the full experience and store it
properly in our material brain as memory. And so the memories of

our dreams can be disconnected, fragmented and jumbled together.
So this is why most people’s dreams seem incoherent and illogical.
It is not that all your dreams are incoherent; it is that the memory
of the experience does not get imprinted correctly on your material
brain. Daskalos explained how this happens with an example of an
old fashioned film-type camera, the kind you had to turn the film
each time you wanted to take a picture in order to advance to the
next frame so that each photo was imprinted separately. He said:
“Let us say, if our material brain was like a film in a camera and we
take one picture after another without turning the film. What will
we see when we develop that film? The pictures we took are there,
but the way they are imprinted is wrong. Therefore, we don’t have
clear pictures. So, the reason for the confused dreams is the wrong
imprinting  of  experiences.  I  am  telling  you  that,  we  have  many
Researchers  of  Truth  that  are  already  working  fully  in  the
Psychical Worlds with their teachers but the next morning they do
not  remember  much.  Of  course  is  not  necessary  to  remember
everything at first. They can work like this for years until they
wake up and then they will remember all their experiences.”
And the meditations and practices Daskalos taught provide
the means for creating an etheric bridge between the material brain
and  the  Psychical  Body,  which  will  allow  the  memory  of  their
Psychical  experiences  to  be  recorded  in  the  material  brain.
Currently  your  memory  of  your  nightly  experiences  in  the
Psychical  Worlds  is  just  a  very  tiny  portion  of  all  of  your
experiences there. But you have forgotten most of them by the
time  you  awake  in  the  morning.  Initially  to  remember  these
experiences takes practice to connect the etheric counterparts of
the material, Psychical and Noetical Bodies so that memory can be
transferred from one body to the other. But much later when we
reach the higher states of full Self-Awareness we will not have to
rely on this memory transfer.
With  training  a  Researcher  of  Truth  will  be  able  to
differentiate,  know  and  work  on  his  or  her  three  bodies
consciously. With further development over time the researcher as
a  self  -awareness  will  no  longer  sleep  at  night.  Of  course  the

material body will sleep but the personality will simply withdraw
from the material body not to dream but to live consciously within
the Psychical World in a similar way as they were in the material
world. With still further advancement a researcher if they wish can
become an Invisible Helper and come to the aid of others in the
Psychical and Noetical Planes.
Spiritual unfoldment is accelerated by service to others. So
once we answer the spiritual call and begin to follow it we can
become empowered by our progress and often feel the desire to
help  other  people  around  us.  Here  we  must  use  caution  and
distinguish between the dead and the sleeping. Christ’s teachings
never advise people to proselytize or press their beliefs on others.
And if we try to share the teachings and our good efforts are not
welcomed, the advice is to wipe the dust from our feet and leave –
don’t force it. So in trying to help others, before we speak we must
try to discern between those who are the unresponsive spiritually
dead (at this point in time) and those who are only sleeping. And if
we want to help wake up a spiritually sleeping person we must go
slow. Firstly they should request your help before you try; we do
not have the right to interfere with the free will of others. Each
personality is different, so before we try to help, we must come to
an understanding of who to tell what, how much to tell, and when
to tell it. We will not be successful if we go rushing to a spiritually
sleeping person and tell them, “Wake up. I found the truth and
you must accept it now!” That will have about the same effect as
rushing in to a person sleeping in their bedroom, turning on the
lights and shouting,”Wake up, you must wake up now. Get out
of bed!” This approach is will only produce a most undesirable
reaction. Instead let the loving vibration of our approach to help
others gently say: “Wake up my Love.”

THE PRACTICE OVERVIEW
In your effort to awaken spiritually, you first have to develop
your  ability  to  concentrate  and  meditate  using  certain  exercises.
Then a second step is to start to consider what your material body
is.  You  know  that  your  material  body  is  not  moving  itself
independently of your will. You know that it is you that moves
your body here and there according to your will. But ask yourself:
“Who am I that can move my body?” In the morning after sleeping
all night your eyes open and you can now say I am awake, I get
out of bed, I dress my body and move it throughout the day. But
who are you that can do all this? This leads you to say “I am” a
personality and you know that as a personality you have varying
combinations of strengths, weaknesses, thoughts and feelings. But
what is this I am?
This is a harder line of investigation – Who am I? And what
about all the people around you, your friends and family; who are
they? Certainly their material bodies are similar to your own, but
definitely their personalities are very different than yours. So who
are you as a personality? Every night while sleeping you go into
dream states, but duringeighty percentof your sleep you enter into
a  dreamless  state,  a  condition  which  seems  like  a  state  of  non-
existence to you. And yet each morning you awaken, recomposed
as the identical personality you were before falling asleep the night
before, with the same likes, dislikes and interests in life. Where
were you during that dreamless sleep? And if during that time you
really were non-existent, how is it you awoke in the morning as the
same personality?
So we practice this line of research in two ways. How and
why we feel and behave the way we do; and how and others feel
and behave as they do. Because there is a cause for all this that is
common to you and to everyone else. And that common cause is
desire. Desire is the feeling of wanting something that catches your
interest; you want to know more about it, maybe want to own it
and call it yours. But why do you feel like that about certain things
but not about other things. Likewise why do certain things cause

you to be upset and behave in an angry negative way, when other
things inspire you and result in positive behaviors? If you take up
this line of study you willcome to realize that you thought you
knew yourself as a personality, but now you realize that you are
much, much more than what you thought before.
Now an even more serious investigations starts when you ask:
“What am I?” You know you are a male or female but what is
common to both sexes? Who you are as a male or female body and
personality is different from one another. But as a male or female
what you are is not different. Both males and females are Eternal
Spirit Beings – no difference. And both are on the same journey
towards Self-Realization. What any man can do in this regard, any
woman can do and all human beings have the same rights in lifeand
the same ultimate destination of Self-Realization.

THE PRACTICE: WHO AM I? WHAT AM I?
CONTEMPLATION
Relax your body and breathe deeply and comfortably.
Breathe in as your heart beats four times.
Breathe out as your heart beats four times.
Continue breathing in this rhythm for a few minutes.
Quiet your emotions and slow your thinking way down.
Forget your name; forget your gender, because as a Soul you are
neither.
Then start this line of questioning: “Who am I? I am living, I am
alive but Who am I.”
Continue to breathe deeply, rhythmically and comfortably.
Now ask: “What am I? What am I as a Soul-Self?” Don’t be in a
hurry.
“What is the relationship between what I am as a Soul-Self to who I
am as a personality self, with my strengths and weaknesses, my
ways of feeling and thinking?”
Ask: “Who am I? What am I?” These are two distinctly different
questions  because  in  the  Worlds  of  Existence  we  are  dual,
everything is dual.
You are living but ask yourself, “What am I as Life?
It is that “ I am” that interests me and I want to know.
I am belongs to the realms of Beingness beyond the three Worlds of
Existence.
Again ask: “Who am I? What am I?”
Expect the answer to these two questions to come in time from
within, from your Guardian Archangel who is unified with you both
as a Soul-Self and a personality-self. The result will be that you
experience and know who and what you are. And you can be sure
you are on the correct way by the strengths you will gain. These
Divine  strengths  are  not  given  to  the  egoism  of  your  little
personality self. They are not given at all, they are latent within us

all, we just have to find and learn to find and express them. In
finding your Soul-Self you find your Divine strengths. If you do this
contemplation every night before falling asleep, you will get the
answer from your Guardian Archangel at a time when you are
most ready to hear it.

Chapter Twenty-Four
DIVINE LOVE ~ HUMAN LOVE
 
What did Christ, the Godman, teach? Love! But, now we have to
see things from a different point of view, not just from the angle of
our personal interest. Because measuring things from our personal
interest with that egoistic measure of our personality, we distort the
meaning of everything – Distorting love in relationships, in the
family, in the community – everywhere. A man claims to love his
wife very much but maybe he kills her. Why? A woman loves her
husband and her children very much, yet, torturing them. How
does that woman love them? If you ask her do you really love
them? She would say “Of course I love them.” But you are
torturing them. She would say, “They don’t obey me. They don’t
listen to what I say. They don’t do what I want them to do.” Then,
you don’t love them if you torture them and punish them, because
they don’t do what you want them to do.
 
What do I mean? Human beings love by reflection. They love what
satisfies their egoism and their way of thinking. Is that Love? This
is the love certain people are expressing and, this kind of love is
giving pain and agony! Now, analyze in yourselves the love you
have towards your own people, the people you say you love;
parents, wife, husband or children. Is that really Love? Or is it just
an expression of your egoism? ~ Daskalos
 
 

THE TEACHING
Of  course  it  is  not  possible  to  adequately  describe  Divine
Love  using  words.  What  we  can  say  is  something  about  the
characteristics of Divine Love and the various colored reflections of
human  love.  Divine  Love,  is  pure,  perfect  and  self-sufficient.
Divine Love is non-dual. It is without the polarity of subject and
object distinctions. Divine Love simply IS. It does not come or go.
It does not decrease or increase. It has no reason or season. Divine
Love is unconditional and everlasting because it is the nature of
God.
Beyond  the  oscillations  of  human  love  found  in  the  three
Worlds of Existence, we will find this unwavering Divine Love in
the realm of Beingness and at the center of our Beingness. And all
these Worlds of Existence are suspended within Divine Love. They
are a creation of Divine Love. We, and the other inhabitants of
these  Worlds  of  Existence  are  embodiments  of  Divine  Love  –
obscured to a lesser or greater degree by our self-created shells. It is
the  quality  our  own  emotion/thought  forms  (the  Elementals),
which determine the degree of transparency of our personality’s
shell. Thus it is the composition of this shell that we must cleanse
and make translucent to allow the radiance of this Love to shine
forth, light our way and help others. Divine Love is the eternal
nature of God and as a Spirit-Soul; it is also our eternal nature.
Total Love is the prime expression of the Logos. And ultimately,
Divine Love is the irresistible force that one-day will claim us all.
In the Worlds of Existence we have the spectrum of human
love with its vast range of expressions in varying degrees of purity.
Love  is  often  identified  as  an  emotion.  But  real  love  is  not  an
emotion, but an emotion can carry love. Likewise noble thoughts
and acts of kindness are carriers of love. Love’s unifying force is
found  throughout  the  three  Worlds  of  Existence  (material,
Psychical, and Noetical). We can even find it at work in the laws of
physics in the material universe. As Daskalos often noted, “The
scientific laws of cohesion and attraction are Love at the material
plane.”

In our prayer to God we say: “Clean our hearts to reflect
Your  Love  towards  You,  and  all  other  human  beings.”  As  a
personality we can reflect Divine Love. But as a Spirit-Soul we
emanate Divine Love directly from our own being. Divine Love is
whole and everlasting. It never changes; it is uncontaminated and
without any degrees of purity. As a personality we also express
what we call human love, which has a wide range of purity that
fluctuates over the course of time. At one end of the human love
spectrum there is what is known as “selfish love”. When human
love between two people becomes contaminated with selfishness;
then manipulation and domination over the so-called “loved one”
can  enter  and  damage  or  destroy  the  relationship.  We  all  know
about  this  kind  of  love  At  the  other  end  of  the  human  love
spectrum is the luminous selfless love, which brings freedom and
joy to both the giver and receiver. When we love selflessly we are
reflecting  Divine  love  brightly  and  clearly. And  learning  to  love
selflessly is a required course in the school of life.
So what is the difference between selfish love and selfless love
since in both cases we are using the same word love? If you light a
fire, the wood will crackle and smoke as it burns giving off some
light. But the smoke can get in your eyes and make you feel pain
until tears run down your cheeks. Then we have the light of the
Sun. What is the difference between the light of the sun and the
dim light of a smoky fire? Both are light but there is a great deal of
difference between these two kinds of light. Likewise there is a
great  deal  of  difference  between  selfish  love  and  selfless  love.
Selfish love can make you feel pain and agony and make tears run
down your cheeks.
Problems in our relationships arise when we mistake love by
reflection to be real love. Love by reflection is when someone is
satisfying and feeding another person’s egoism, which makes them
think the other person, truly loves them. But if your beloved starts
to  go  against  your  desires  complaining,  blaming  and  maybe
attacking, you might fight back and blame them too. Then the love
between you starts to dissolve like a water-color painting in the
rain. And maybe you both find out that each of you only loved the

other person, when they loved your egoism. So it is this kind of
reflected love between the egoism of two personalities, which we
must be aware of because it is very dangerous.
Let me give you a little example. Let’s say a man meets a
woman and that woman is very nice or complimentary to the man
and it starts to feed his egoism. Immediately his egoism may start
to swell and feel: I really like this woman; this lady understands me
and appreciates me. And so that man starts to “love” the woman
by reflection. Now let’s say the lady feels the positive attention
and appreciation coming from the man and all that starts to make
her egoism swell. So now her egoism starts to think I like this guy
he really understands who I am and appreciates me – I think I am
falling in love. So it builds on this with one person’s egoism feeding
the other person’s egoism. One common aspect of egoism is that it
can get totally infatuated with its self, so when another person
seems to validate the egoisms view of itself, whatever that might
be, the egoism mistakenly thinks this is love. Of course this is not
evil – but it is not real love either. Maybe call it immature love,
which potentially can mature into real love.
But in too many cases what happens? At some point one
person sees something they do not like in the other’s personality.
When the one egoism realizes the other person does not see them
in  the  same  glorious  way  as  it  sees  itself,  that  egoism  starts
reacting.  Next  comes  the  complaints,  criticisms,  judgment  and
fighting, which in marriages can lead to divorce. What started as
two people attracted to each other ends in both people repelling
each other. This love was conditional love. I love you because you
do something for me that I want. And you love me because I do
something for you that you want. This type of love is more like a
business deal than true love. And what happens when one person
stops doing that something for the other one?
I am not saying that a relationship where each person fulfills
and provides something to the other is not good or loving. What I
am saying is that a relationship that is only based on feeding each
other’s egoism is dangerous. It is dangerous because sooner or later
that way becomes unsustainable and then what? The relationship

ether  has  to  mature  and  grow  into  something  better  or  come
undone. Things cannot stay in this condition forever. Look at the
life all around you. It is either growing or declining.
What I am trying to say is that too often what we call human
love is really love by reflection. What they really love is what is
satisfying their own egoism and their point of view. This is love by
reflection that people initially misunderstand and mistake to be real
love. And in the end this kind of love can cause so much suffering
to  each  person.  What  kind  of  love  is  that?I  knew  a  man  who
claimed to “love” his wife and yet for years and years told her he
would literally kill her if she tried to leave him – and he meant it.
He would even tell her how he would kill her and he would show
her  exactly  where  he  would  do  it.  This  was  the  mother  of  his
children and yet he firmly claimed he loved her but would kill her if
she left. What kind of love is this?
So we have to see love from a higher perspective and not just
from the vantage point of our own personal interests. If we allow
our egoism to measure things based on its personal interests it will
distort  the  love  with  our  partner,  with  our  family  and  fellow
human  beings.  So  this  brings  us  back  to  the  importance  of  the
practices of introspection and observation. We need these tools to
analyze what kind of love we have for our parents, our spouse and
our children in order to weed egoistic love out of our garden.
Of course marriage should be something positive and it will be
when it has the proper foundation. Let’s look at marriage, or just
call it a union between two  people  on  earth.  Is  it  sacred?  Is  it
binding?  Of  course  to  God,  the  physical  union  of  a  man  and
woman  united  in  real  love  to  become  co-creators  with  God  in
creating a material body for newly incarnating Souls is sacred. But
man  and  woman  are  more  than  just  material  bodies.  So  a  good
marriage of two people is more than just a loving physical union.
What kind of union is created if there is not a union on higher
planes  too?  This  means  the  psychical  and  the  Noetical;  the
marriage of the heart, mind and body is seen as the best foundation
for a lasting marriage. Man is a trinity; even at the personality level
we have the trinity – mental body, emotional body and material

body. So without a harmonious union between all three bodies, a
couple can be legally married, live together for many, many years
and be very, very far apart.
One time in Cyprus, a German couple came to see Daskalos.
All  the  time  they  were  fighting  and  they  had  created  a  hellish
condition in their marriage and in their home. Both had had it with
each  other  and  came  to  Daskalos  for  advice.  They  asked  him:
“Should  we  separate?”  Daskalos  retorted  with  irony:  “You  are
already separated!”People are attracted to each other and join in
marriage and there are always lessons to be learned in any marriage.
So now we have another point of view on marriage – the many
lessons to be learned from marriage or marriage-like relationships.
Of course the main lesson is to learn to love not in an egoistic way
but in a pure and selfless way. This means that both partners learn
how to enter into the oneness of each other. This is the symbol in
the marriage ceremony were the two candles are joined and the two
flames become one.
But unfortunately some marriages become ill. What starts as
two people believing they found their Soul mate can unfortunately
turn into two people living like cellmates in a prison of their own
making. This is the case when one person wants to dominate over
the other or there is so much enmity and fighting that it makes
them and their children sick. No one married or not, has the right to
make a hell for another person. Also no one can force somebody to
stay in a hell if they decide to leave. So in these cases sometimes it
is  better  to  divorce  than  continue  torturing  each  other,  building
monstrous heart crushing Elementals. So it is not the priest reciting
marriage prayers or the required legal language of a civil ceremony
that binds the marrying couple. It is their heart and Soul that does
the  binding.  Indifference,  faultfinding  and  complaints  separate
people.  Love  unites  them.  This  is  true  on  Earth,  and  in  the
Psychical and Noetical Worlds beyond.
Even the greatest marriage can only last for some years on
Earth and then the married partners pass over. Do husbands and
wives find each other on the other side in the Psychical Worlds of
existence? Yes, if there is real love between them. But if they are

not united in heart and mind in the material world they will not be
likely to meet in the Psychical or Noetical Worlds.
And married couples come again in subsequent incarnations to
learn  the  lesson  they  did  not  learn  before.  So  God  is  uniting
couples again and again until they learn the lessons of love and
understanding. Or in some blessed cases a couple can return in full
Attunement with each other to share the sacred journey on earth
once again. Or they come again to join forces for a special purpose
in life. Daskalos said he had seen couples come to him that had
been married in more than ten previous incarnations.
The most powerful force joining two people together is their
Soul  connection.  Then  at  the  personality  level,  it  is  love  and
understanding. When you have real love, true understanding and a
genuine Soul connection that marriage is sacred. When two people
first  experience  love  for  each  other,  it  is  often  referred  to  as
“Falling  in  Love”.  But  when  that  love  is  true  and  selfless  their
actual experience is more like “Rising in Love”. Selfless love lifts
the couple on its upwardly expanding currents, higher and higher.
It gives the lover and the beloved a glimpse of the Divinity within
them both.
Loving those who love us is human, but what should we do
when someone does not love us but hates us? It is said that loving
someone who hates you is Divine and hating someone who loves
you is devilish. And this was Christ’s advice, “I say unto you,
Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them
that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and
persecute  you.”  Of  course  we  should  not  consider  anyone  our
enemy, for in truth they are a brother or sister who is suffering
under negative illusions, which means they need our love maybe
more than our friends do. Others may consider you their enemy
but  you  should  not  consider  anyone  your  enemy.  “If  you  love
your enemies you will have none,” Leo Tolstoy once declared.
Daskalos  lived  and  taught  on  the  Greek  Island  of  Cyprus,
about 65 miles from the coast of Lebanon where the clash between
the different sects of the Muslims and Christians destroyed the
city  of  Beirut  and  much  of  its  population.  Before  the  conflict

erupted in the streets, Daskalos had over 200 students there and at
the end of the conflict only two students were still living. In 1974,
Muslims  from  Turkey  invaded  Cyprus  killing  and  chasing  the
Greek-Cypriot Christians from their homes on the north side of
the island to the south before UN troops halted the invasion.
At  one  point  during  this  occupation  the  Greek  Christian
Cypriots decided to celebrate “National Days” with a parade in the
streets on the Greek side next to the neutral zone. But in doing so,
they stimulated the same nationalistic pride in the Turkish Muslim
Cypriots on their side of the neutral zone. And soon the Turkish
Muslims started to celebrate their own version of National Days.
Before the Christian Greeks started this kind of celebration, the
Turkish Muslims never cared about it or celebrated this. What was
occurring was the Greek celebration created and greatly empowered
nationalistic group Elementals, which awakened the same feelings
in the Turks and so they started celebrating in opposition to the
Greek  celebration.  These  kinds  of  group  Elementals  are  very
powerful and can cause much harm. There are group Elementals
within families, local communities and entire countries that greatly
affect the people. And when these groups are negative or have a
“them  vs.  us”  mentality  human  beings  can  become  strongly
influenced by these Elementals resulting in conflicts and wars.
Speaking  to  this  Daskalos  once  said:  “What  have  the
Christians and Muslims succeeded to do in Lebanon? They have
planned  everything  and  you  see  how  much  bloodshed  is  in
Lebanon? Do you think they did not plan to do the same thing in
Cyprus? Yes. Why didn’t they succeed? (And certain people, they
are wondering, even telling me about that.) They did not succeed
because we did not allow them to do it. There is a group of the
Innermost Circle doing the work, flooding Cyprus with love, with
the atmosphere of love. Thoughts have in them much power.
And  there  is  not  any  clash  between  the  Muslims  and  the
Greek  Cypriots.  Only  on  two  occasions,  and  that  was  not  on
national things but on love affairs. They are wondering about this
on both sides, but we take out the fuse from these bombs all the
time. But how do we succeed to do that? If those fellows in the

group, I call them Invisible Helpers, had in them the least trace of
hatred, they would not succeed to do that. But the life and blood of
the Turkish and the life and blood of the Greeks are for us sacred in
the same way. And now, we try to create Cypriot consciousness,
for both of us, Christians and Muslims.
You  in  Switzerland,  you  have  succeeded  in  it,  you  have
created the Swiss consciousness, and no matter if you are German-
speaking, French-speaking or Italian-speaking, you are Swiss. This
is  what  we  try  to  do  in  Cyprus  now.  To  create  Cypriot
consciousness, Turkish-speaking or Greek-speaking, Cypriots are
Cypriots, brothers. They must live together. And they, I hope will
succeed in the end. Love all, without exception. We cannot have
enemies. Shall we have friends? Neither enemies nor friends – have
brothers  and  sisters,  fathers  and  mothers  belonging  to  the  same
family, the human family. Now, I say that nationalism is a very
bad thing. You ask me what nationality I am. I am a human. What
is my country? It is the planet. What are the nations? They are
rooms in the same big construction in which my family lives, and
my family is every human being!”
Every human being is receiving the same sunlight, the same
common substance of air that gives vitality and oxygen, not just to
some  but  to  all. And  by  that  fact  alone,  we  should  be  able  to
understand that all people have the same right to live and no one is
to be considered an enemy. Look how often people who are slaves
to their own egoism, start relationships as friends that turn into
enemies. They start nice friendships but if they are victims of their
own personal egoism, the friendship can become spoiled and they
become enemies in the end. And yet for the one who can reflect
real  unselfish  love  in  his  or  her  heart  towards  all;  the  elderly
become like mothers and fathers, their peers become brothers and
sisters and younger people become their children.
Loving  others  like  that  does  not  mean  we  love  our  blood
related children, brothers, sisters or parents any less, it means we
love more. You are not depriving your kin of love by loving other
human  beings  unselfishly.  And  if  we  learn  to  love  others
unconditionally  and  not  egoistically,  we  receive  protection  from

those who may wish us harm. So to stop making enemies we must
first unseat egoism in us and learn to love properly. An egoistic
person does not know how to love properly.
Some of the best teachings on real love can be found in the
letters from Saint Paul, which state: “If I speak in the tongues of
men and of Angels, but have not love, I am only a resounding gong
or a clanging cymbal.” (Notice how he is mentioning the language of
Angels? This is because he knew the language of the Archangels)
“Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it
is not proud. It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily
angered, and it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in
evil but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts,
always hopes, and always perseveres. Love never fails.” ~ Saint
Paul
So how can we express this kind of love? Who can express
such a perfect love? Who is capable of teaching us what it means to
really love? There are some who walk the earth who can teach you
about real love because they embody it. But there is none nearer or
dearer to show us what real love is, than our brother guide, our
own Guardian Archangel. He is ready, willing, and able to teach us
the miracle of Divine Love.
As we come into contact with our Guardian Archangel we will
learn so much. We will learn about the nature of Divine Love by
observing  how  our  Guardian  loves  and  cares  for  us.  For  our
Guardian Archangel  has  been  emanating  his  perfect  love  for  us
uninterrupted  from  the  moment  of  our  humanization  and  first
incarnation. His full unification with us allows him to unerringly
know all our intentions, motivations, thoughts, feelings, desires and
actions.  His  charge  is  to  guard  and  guide  our  developing
personality. And take note of how he carries out this duty of love:
He constantly follows our life without interfering in it
He leads us without coercion
He shows us our mistakes without judgment or criticism
He councils without dominating over our free will.
He serves us eternally without expecting even a thank you
in return

But  when  we  allow  ourselves  to  get  disturbed  and  start
behaving badly by getting jealous, angry and hating; the Archangels
accompanying  us  take  a  step  back  as  it  were.  These  types  of
destructive behaviors are disturbing the Holy Archangels in you,
but it disturbs your Guardian Archangel more. Pay attention to
this point. When we are disturbed enough to express anger, hatred,
jealousy and the like, we are disturbing our Guardian and so our
Guardian temporarilytakes a step back from us so to speak. When
we misuse the Etheric Vitality the Archangels provide us, they do
not get angry; they simply withdraw for a time.
Your  best  spiritual  master  and  guide  is  your  Guardian
Archangel, who is attending you, following every action of yours,
every thought of yours, and every emotion of yours. Please try to
understand  that you are never ever alone.  Every  one  of  us  is
lovingly attended by his or her Guardian Archangel. Even when
you are sleeping at night, your Present-Day-Personality is either in
other planes of existence or sleepily dreaming. But your Guardian
is never sleeping; he stays with you behaving just like a tender
mother attending her beloved child. His love for you is perfect and
uncontaminated. A Guardian Archangel is so closely attuned to a
human being that he has sometimes been mistakenly identified as
our “Twin Soul” or our “Inner Self.” But he is not our twin Soul
and he is definitely not our so-called Inner Self; although he is in
unification with our Inner Self. And so he rightfully speaks for the
Inner Self, but he is a bit more lenient.
Now,  imagine  this  perfect  Eternal  Spirit  Being,  who  is
complete  in  its  immaculate  Love,  Wisdom  and  Power,  always
watching even your most subtle thoughts, feelings and actions each
day, seven days a week, 52 weeks a year, throughout your whole
life, on earth, and in the worlds beyond, lifetime after lifetime. Can
you imagine this kind of love? Can you conceive of a love that is
capable of witnessing all of our mistakes, all of our crimes of spirit
and all of our violations of Divine Law that we have committed
over  all  our  many  lifetimes?  He  does  this  without  a  single
complaint or condemnation. Can you feel his Divine Love for you?

What kind of love is this?
Who saw to it that such a great guide and powerful protector
as  our  Guardian  Archangel  would  accompany  each  and  every
human being in all their incarnations? What love is so caring that it
provides each of us with this Super-Conscious Guardian? It is the
love of God, of course, but it is also the Guardian Archangel’s own
love that joins his Spirit Ray with our Spirit Ray at the point of
our  humanization.  But  these  Guardians  are  Archangels,  Divine
emissaries, and their will is the same as God’s will. God’s will
automatically rise within all the Archangels as their own will. And
they  express  God’s  will  according  to  the  classification  of  their
particular Archangelic order. They are so near and dear to God that
we could metaphorically consider them as the very breath of God.
When we speak about the Divine Love and the work of the
Guardian Archangels, we are not offering you a dusty old theory,
mechanically  repeated  century  after  century  by  those  without
direct  experience.  We  are  not  presenting  some  unsubstantiated
new-age notion for you to blindly believe. We are revealing our
own first hand experiences and that of many, many other seekers
of  truth  past  and  present.  And  if  you  are  sincere  with  your
approach  to  the  Guardian Archangel,  it  will  be  your  own  self-
evident experience too!

THE PRACTICE OVERVIEW
To reflect Divine Love we must make our personality clean
and bright. If we have light coming in our home from a window,
and we place a piece of black paper in that sunlight, it will not
reflect any light in the room. But place a white piece of paper in
the sunlight and it will reflect the light very well. Place a crystal
clear mirror in that light and it will reflect the sunlight perfectly. In
a  similar  way  when  we  clean  our  personality  of  anxiety,  fear,
animosity,  and  other  negativities,  we  become  brighter  and  can
reflect love to others much better.
So this is our aim, to sincerely make an effort over the course
of our life to eliminate any dark thoughts and feelings that will
obscure the light of love. The practices of the Researchers of Truth
do this and replace any negativity and darkness in our personality
with positive life affirming qualities. This creates the conditions
that allow an ever increasing amount of Divine love to be reflected
though our personality to others and that also accelerates our own
spiritual unfoldment.

THE PRACTICE: REFLECTING DIVINE LOVE
CONTEMPLATION
Close your eyes, and relax completely.
Love  is  the  Divine  flame  uniting  all  Souls.  Why  not  all
personalities? You are already united with everyone as Spirit-Souls
in the common Selfhood of God. Why not unite ourselves, our
personalities also, in that Divine Love of the Logos? This Love
nourishes all of our bodies (our Psychical and our Noetical Body,
and the Etheric Doubles) purifying them and uniting us with the
Logos, who is everywhere and in us.
Breathe deeply now and ask yourself these questions: What is love?
Do I love? Whom do I love and why?”
Now, make your heart a bright sun with golden light, or canary-
yellow light, radiating this light around you. Feel that light.
Clean any negativity from your hearts so to be able to reflect God’s
love clearly.
Clean your heart to radiate this Love towards God and towards all
other human beings.
Now, bring in front of you certain people, one by one, with whom
you had differences. Now see them happy. See their faces lit from
this light of your own heart. Now bring more people around you,
people with whom you have differences and whom you love. Fill the
space, your Noetical space with people you know. See this light
from your heart shine on their faces and send them a wish with this
light, “May God always keep you in good health and in His love.”
This is a most powerful Elemental, purely Noetical Elemental. The
only desire in it is your wish to see these people in good health and
living happily. Learn to create these most powerful Elementals.
They can stop wars! But, of course, one has to learn how to love,
starting with the individuals and the members of the family first.

Chapter Twenty-Five
INITIATION & PROTECTION
 
Now, what is the need for initiation? For anyone who has attended
three lessons and wishes to continue, you are entitled to ask to
become an initiate of the Researchers of Truth. The ones who don’t
want to be initiated they can still attend the lessons without being
initiated. A point to remember is that initiation is of no importance.
What does initiation symbolize? Does it make any difference for
those who are initiated and those who don’t want to be initiated,
while attending classes and want to continue? No, not for me and
your teachers, but it does give the initiates a sense of belonging to a
circle of research. It is something that helps them and they gain
more confidence and Faith within themselves. It is for their own
concern, as those that attend classes get help from their teachers.
 
So initiation is not necessary, at least in the beginning. Naturally
those who will enter the inner and innermost circles must be
initiated. But initiation is not necessary for those who want to follow
lessons only up to a certain point even if it is quite advanced, up to
Exosomatosis. After a certain point is reached where everyone’s
aim in the group is for the common work within the Divine Plan,
then, initiation becomes necessary. On your initiation you make the
seven promises. These promises you make to yourself, it is only a
promise not an oath. We differ from other systems because we
follow Christ’s teachings. “Do not take an oath.” You will not take
an oath and then find that you cannot carry it out. The promise is to
yourself that you will try live by the promises You may not be able
to do it in the beginning but you can keep on trying. So in actual fact
it is an obligation to your Self. ~ Daskalos
 
 
On this day, my friend, Mr. Will from New York and I were

especially eager to arrive at Daskalos’ home as he had agreed to
create a unique and very powerful talisman for each of us. This
type  was  no  ordinary  talisman  as  it  was  extremely  potent  and
created a lasting protection for the one it was created for and would
go on protecting those related to them for generations to come.
During its creation, Daskalos also invoked the assistance of the
Archangels  who  would  volunteer  to  come  forward  and  help  lift
some  of  our  Karmic  burden. Additionally  the  procedure  would
burn off some of our own negative Elementals that were hindrances
to  our  progress.  The  process  took  some  dedicated  time  so  we
arrived early and found him waiting for us in his sitting room. The
deeper significance of all this was beyond our understanding at the
time, but we did know how great and rare this opportunity was.
And so wewere grateful and willing participants.
But before creating the talismans, Daskalos was to initiate us
into the System for the Research of Truth. This initiation was done
in the same way as it had always been done in the past centuries in
this  lineage.  For  this  small  ceremony,  Daskalos  used  the  un-
pointed  sword,  a  replica  of  the  sword  broken  by  the  Magi
Melchior (Ham El Khior) when he saw the Christ child. Daskalos
explained  that  whoever  was  to  be  initiated  would  see  the  un-
pointed sword that has written on it, “At thine immaculate feet, O
Logos be all authority.”
 
 
Daskalos  then  asked  his  daughter,  Panayiota,  and  another
member of his inner circle to attend as witnesses to the initiation.
The rush of modern cultures towards the future has left the age-old
rite of initiation behind. The ritual of initiation in itself is not that

important.  The  importance  is  in  what  it  symbolizes,  the
transmission  it  confers,  and  also  what  a  mystic  has  to  gain  as
experience and truth. But there are many tests one has to undergo
to receive the initiations. There is not just one but many initiations
into  the  wisdom  and  the  teachings,  which  do  entail  dangers.  In
more advanced initiations we face life and death situations. This is
why  it  is  important  to  choose  wisely  as  we  approach  real
initiations. If we not are strong and courageous is better not to
proceed, because you will face powerful tests. Over 35,000 years
ago, initiations performed in caves marked a major transition, a rite
of  passage  from  one  stage  of  life  to  another.  These  early
ceremonies propelled young males into manhood and the adult life.
Others kinds of initiations launched prepared seekers into the great
spiritual  mysteries.  These  were  not  empty  rituals  as  most
ceremonies  are  today.  They  were  full  of  power  actualizing  a
dramatic psychological shift on the individual.
As I bent to kneel for the initiation, I reflected back on how
the lineage of the Researchers of Truth began 2000 years ago as the
three  Magi  knelt  before  the  Christ  child.  Now  Daskalos  was
initiating  us  into  the  same  system  of  mysticism  started  at  that
profound moment in history. We made the seven promises and
Daskalos asked if we would like to serve in psychotherapy or in
social  work.  We  said  psychotherapy.  Then  hemade  some
statements  giving  us  his  blessings  and  finished  the  initiation  by
touching us on each shoulder and the crown of the head with his
replica of the un-pointed sword as we knelt on one knee. Not only
did  this  resemble  a  ceremonious  induction  into  spiritual
knighthood; it had in it the power and purpose of it as well. We
rose and he kissed us on the cheeks.
After completing the initiation, Mr. Will and I followed him
as he carried the un-pointed sword into his kitchen and prepared to
create our talismans. Daskalos did not speak as he assembled the
materials needed for his work. He collected two small plates of
different size, a candlestick holder with a white candle, a black and
a red felt tip marker and set them down on the table next to the
sword. Next, he took a small disc of black charcoal the size of a

quarter and some white pebble size chunks of floral incense like the
typeused in the local Greek churches. Then he brought out two
pieces of pastel yellow paper about nine inches by nine inches and
sat down at the head of the table with us.
Daskalos placed the little nuggets of incense on top of the
charcoal disc and set fire to  the  edge  of  the  disc. As  the  flame
touched charcoal, it began to make a hissing sound. Tiny orange
sparks, like miniature fireworks effervesced out in all directions
quickly  spreading  over  the  entire  disc.  The  charcoal  became
glowing hot and the heat melted the white incense. It bubbled and
turned black as it released streams of sweet smelling smoke into the
air. The spiraling smoke and my anticipation rose steadily upward.
The smoke billowed outward, mixing with the early morning light
coming through the kitchen windowsto create a misty sanctuary all
around us. Daskalos lit the candle and made a prayer. Sacredness
fell over the room. He started by using a plate and a black marker
to create a black circle about six inches in diameter. Then using a
slightly smaller plate and the red marker, he created a red circle
within the black circle. The dry squeak of the felt tipped marker
dragging  over  the  paper  broke  the  room’s  soft  silence.  Next
Daskalos used the un-pointed sword as a straight edge and drew a
red, double six-pointed star one within the other;both inside the
circles. The double six-pointed star is a most powerful protective
symbol  as  it  protects  both  from  negative  forcescoming  from
outside us and from those negative influencesthat arises within our
own personality.
He turned and asked what religion I was, to which I replied
Christian, and he made some marks on his drawing. Then he began
combining  Indian  Sanskrit  and  Egyptian  hieroglyphics  into
individual symbols. He implanted protective Elementals on these.
He also drew and wrote other thing within and under the red six
pointed star. All the time he held a strong, unbroken attention on
what he was doing. The reason for using all these forms of writing
was to insure no one skilled in the black arts could decipher what
he wrote and break its protective power. This was not a problem I
expected to encounter in rural America; but apparently, it was a

problem on Cyprus. This kind of talisman was the kind made by
the  old  Egyptian  Hierophants  that  protected  the  entire  material
body as well as the Psychical and Noetical Bodies.
As he completed the drawing, I assumed he was done but he
was just beginning. Next, he placed the lit candle over the center of
the talisman. The flame burned steadily, its soft glow cast a slight
golden light on Daskalos’ face. Then he really turned up the power.
He drew a slow deep breath, concentrated very intently and went
to work.
Daskalos moved his hands mysteriously above and around the
drawing for a few minutes. Then his eyes focused on the space
between his hands and the flame. He held up his index finger about
two feet away from the flame. Then he very slightly moved his
index  finger  about  a  half-inch  towards  the  candle  flame. As  he
moved  his  finger,  the  flame  instantly  sputtered,  flickered  and
moved  simultaneously  in  the  opposite  direction  of  his  finger
movement.  He  did  it  again  with  the  same  results  all  the  while
intensely  staring  at  the  flame.  He  continued  this  for  about  five
minutes  moving  his  hand  lightly  around  the  candle  at  the  same
distance  repeatedly  tapping  his  finger  towards  the  flame.  The
whole process looked as if he was pressing something invisible into
the  flame. And  judging  by  the  flame’s  instant  reaction,  he  was.
Later he explained how in that process he was capturing certain
negative Elementals and driving them into the flame, which freed
me  of  their  influence.  From  his  first  incarnation,  Daskalos  had
always felt an affinity with the fire element and spoke of how
much he enjoyed dissolving negative Elementals by driving them
into the flame.
At the end of this rite he asked the Archangels if any would
volunteer to help. Daskalos announced that Michael and Raphael
had come forward and would help me in life. Concluding his work,
he  turned  to  me  and  began  revealing  specific  and  very  private
things about my relationships that no one knew but me. He also
revealed hidden dynamics in these relationships that I had not yet
discovered but soon would. Daskalos disclosure hinted at things I
could  do  to  improve  those  conditions.  When  I  went  back  to

America  I  followed  these  suggestions  and  these  things  resolved
quickly.  That  certainly  proved  to  me  that  he  had  indeed  seen
problem  areas  unknown  to  me,  correctly  diagnosed  them  and
offered the proper remedies that did work. Next he did Mr. Will’s
talisman in the same way. Finally, Daskalos demonstrated to us
how to use our hands and fingers on the talisman to call on the
Archangels and him when we truly needed help. This too I tried
when I returned to America and it produced a fast and significant
help for someone.
Then  Daskalos  did  something  completely  unexpected  and
touching. He had our talismans mounted and framed at the shop
across the street from his home and presented them to us as a gift.
All this wisdom and power offered to us so sweetly with love
penetrated me to the core. We thanked him heartily; he slightly
nodded barely acknowledging our gratitude. Daskalos did not need
or  want  acknowledgement  for  his  service  and  a  thank  you  was
about as much as he would accept.
The sweet floral incense lingered on our clothing as Mr. Will
and I steppedout ofthe sanctuary of Daskalos’ home and into the
brilliant Cyprus sunlight. Our precious time with Daskalos was
just about over and our return to America was eminent. I wondered
to myself if I would ever return to Daskalos again. The instant I
had  that  thought,  the  answer  arose  within  me  loud  and  clear:
“Many Times!”

Epilogue
THE GREAT SUN
 
I am the Great Sun but you do not see me
I am your husband but you turn away
I am the captive but you do not free me
I am the captain you will not obey
I am the truth but you will not believe me
I am that city where you will not stay
I am your wife; your child but you will leave me
I am that God to whom you will not pray
I am your council but you do not hear me
I am your lover that you will betray
I am your life but if you do not name me
Seal up your Soul with tears and never blame me
Found on a 16
th
 century Norman crucifix

GLOSSARY OF TERMS
 
Our System for the Research of Truth employs terms and
concepts in a particular fashion. The translators have laboured to
preserve the eloquence contained in the Greek original. To avoid
confusing our language and terminology with that of other schools
and  other  disciplines,  and  to  gain  clarity  over  the  material,  we
appeal to the readers to consult this glossary.

ABSOLUTE BEINGNESS, INFINITE BEINGNESS,
GOD, THE FATHER, THE LORD, THE HIGHEST.
These terms are used interchangeably. In spite of the use of
masculine  pronouns  with  any  of  the  above  terms,  Absolute
Beingness  and  any  of  the  other  expressions  used  for  God  are
without gender. God is all and everything.

ARCHANGELS, ANGELS
Holy  Spiritual  Beings  assisting  in  the  construction  and
maintenance  of  the  worlds.  They  possess  Total  Wisdom  and
Absolute  Self-awareness  (though  lacking  the  self-conscious
individuality  specific  to  humans).  We  speak  in  praise  of  the
Archangels  of  the  elements,  the  Orders  of  Authorities,  of
Cherubim,  of  Dominions,  of  Overlords,  of  Principalities,  of
Seraphim  and  of  the  Thrones.  In  our  work  we  speak  of  seven
Orders of Archangels, each composed of billions and billions of
Holy Monadic Beings serving Creation. Angels are Elementals of
the Archangels.

ARCHANGELIC MAN
Archangelic Man is one of the Ideas (see ‘Heavenly Man’ and
‘Causes,  Ideas  and  Principles’  below).  The  Holy  Monadic
emanation passes through the Idea of Archangelic Man on its way
to the Idea of Heavenly Man, thus the Archangels are the brothers
of humanity.

AT-ONE-MENT
The super-conscious state in which a Being is able to merge
itself in total oneness with any other Being or existence, and with
Absolute Beingness in Theosis, without ever abandoning its Ego.

ATTUNEMENT
Adjusting  our  vibrations  to  the  frequency  of  any  other
existence or Being to the extent that we can observe and study its
nature. Attunement is reached prior to at-one-mint.

BEING and EXISTING
Existing has a beginning and an end and is thus a timed or
temporal  phenomenon.  Being  is  timeless  and  eternal,  without
beginning or end.

CAUSES, IDEAS and PRINCIPLES
The Will-pleasure of Absolute Beingness is the primal Cause,
as it is the cause of Creation. From within the Will-pleasure of
Absolute Beingness, all the Causes spring. Causes then give rise to
Ideas. Every Idea holds within it the whole Cycle of Possibility of
the  form  to  be  created. Archangels  work  through  the  Ideas  and
impart  Total  Wisdom  to  each  form.  Principles  govern  the
expression of Causes in time and space.

CAUSALSTATE
Above the Noetic State, the causal state is a condition of pure
Ideas and Principles. It is also known as the fifth heaven.

CAUSE AND EFFECT, LAW OF
The Law of Cause and Effect is recognized by scientists as
well as mystics. This Divine Law requires every action to result in
a  reaction.  Yet,  whereas  Eastern  religions  often  teach  a
deterministic view of this Law (terming it Karma), we believe that
debts can be born for others or transcended through repentance
(see below) and reparation. The Law of Cause and Effect operates
over several lifetimes as well as within much shorter periods.

CHRIST, CHRIST LOGOS, LOGOS, LOGOI,
LOGOIC
The Greek word Logos can be translated as ‘word’ (as the
Authorised Version does in the first chapter of St. John’s gospel).
Christ, as used here, alone or in conjunction with Logos, refers to
the ‘Only Begotten Son’. When Jesus, as the incarnation of the
Christ Logos, is specifically meant, He is sometimes referred to as
‘the Most Beloved Logos’. In our work, we often speak of the
Holy Logos and the God-Man Jesus Christ, a full, direct, and pure
incarnation  of  the  Logoic  expression  of  Absolute  Beingness,
synonymously.  Logoi  is  the  plural  of  Logos,  Logoic  is  the
adjective.

COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS, COSMIC MEMORY
Here  every  event,  past  and  present,  in  all  the  worlds  is
recorded. A mystic can perform research by attuning himself to the
Cosmic   Consciousness.   Contained   within   the   Cosmic
Consciousness  is  the  Cosmic  Memory.  This  is  the  ‘heavenly
archive’ where the impressions, actions, thoughts, emotions and
desires of all the Beings are recorded.

CYCLE/CIRCLE OF POSSIBILITIES
The Cycle of Possibility of each form is laid down in Total
Wisdom in the Divine Laws and Causes. All forms are continually
developing:  from  seed  to  tree,  from  child  to  adult.  Each  form
changes so that experience may be gathered. In the Eternal Now a
form  is  complete  and  based  on  a  Principle,  with  its  Cycle  of
Possibility  already  established.  On  entering  the  Worlds  of
Existence  (material,  Psychical  and  Noetical),  the  Cycle  of
Possibility  is  inscribed  on  the  Permanent  Personality,  and
parameters are set (time and place). No form may escape its Cycle
of Possibility, thus ruling out transmigration from one form to any
other (humans will always reincarnate as humans).

CYCLE/CIRCLE OF PROBABILITIES
While the cycle of possibilities is the ideal development and is
inescapable, the cycle of probabilities allows for the halting of a
developing life at any point of its development. A seed may not
grow, a young tree may become diseased and die, or a child may
pass over. Within each Cycle of Possibility, we find millions of
cycles of probabilities; it is probable that something or someone
may stop existing or, conversely, continue to exist. Each Cycle of
Possibility,  whether  fulfilled  or  interrupted,  has  great  wisdom
behind it in serving the Law.

DIVINE
Used  only  for  the  Qualities,  Causes,  Ideas,  Laws  and
Principles,  and  Beings,  which  emanate  directly  from  Absolute
Beingness.

DIVINE GRACE
It is a gift of Divine Grace that we exist as humans, in our
bodies, in the universes.

DIVINE LAWS
The  basic  structure  of  Creation,  governing  all  worlds  and
universes,  and  corresponding  to  our  higher  nature.  Epitomizing
Reason and Love manifested, it is our recognition of, and alignment
with, these Laws (e.g., of Cause and Effect, of Harmony, of Order,
of  Growth  of  Love)  which  leads  to  our  balanced  and  enhanced
spiritual development.

DIVINE MEDITATION
Intricately linked to the Will-pleasure of Absolute Beingness
to  express  Itself  within  Itself.  Divine  Meditation,  for  lack  of  a
better term, is believed to be the state prior to the Will-pleasure
where Absolute Beingness contemplates expression. Within Divine
Meditation Creation is conceived.

DIVINE MERCY
A  little  understood,  but  most  compassionate  force  in
Creation, that permits the seeming miraculous to take place. James,
in his epistle, wrote, ‘and mercy rejoices against judgement’ (3:13).

DIVINE PLAN
The blueprint of Creation, perfect and complete, accounting
for everything and for all occurrences. Attuning our thoughts and
actions to the most-wise Divine Plan of Absolute Beingness is the
purpose of our existence.

ECSTASY
A  going  out  from  oneself  into  the  Kingdom  of  Heavens
through  expansion,  At-One-Ment  and/or  Attunement.  Ecstasy
implies  a  passing  beyond  all  conceptual  thinking  of  discursive
reason.

EGO and EGOISM
Our  use  of  these  terms  is  not  to  be  confused  with
contemporary psychological terminology. Egoism defiles Mind by
the construction of selfish desires, and by the base emotions of
greed, malice and envy. The Ego (with a capital E) is the Self as
Beingness, the Soul nature, and is reflected through a reasoning and
loving  personality.  While  egoism  (a  weakness  of  our  present
personality) is the source of disease throughout the personality,
the  nation  and  the  world,  our  Ego  nature  brings  forth  love,
compassion, reasoned thinking and reasoned action.

ELEMENTALS
Every thought, emotion and desire creates and transmits an
Elemental-also called thought-form-that carries on an existence of
its own. We create and regenerate two types of Elementals. When
an emotion governs a thought, we have created emotional thought-
forms, or desire-thoughts. When our ideas, desires and emotions
pass through reason and love, we create reasoned thought-forms, or
thought-desires. An Elemental can never be destroyed, only dis-
energized  (by  no  longer  feeding  the  Elemental  with  Etheric
Vitality).  Elementals  of  a  kind  collect  to  form  powerful  group
Elementals.  If  an  individual,  or  a  collection  of  individuals,  are
vibrating  at  the  same  frequency,  they  will  attract  such  group
Elementals. Archangels also create Elementals: benign and angelic in
the service of humanity.

ETERNAL NOW, ETERNAL PRESENT
Beyond the Worlds of Existence is the Eternal Now, the state
of Everlasting Life. There past, present and future collapse into a
single present, without time or place.

ETHER, ETHERIC VITALITY
‘Our daily bread’, Etheric Vitality (Mind) is obtained through
breathing, meditation, eating and rest. We swim in a sea of Etheric
Vitality  which  surrounds  and  permeates  the  globe,  yet,  through
disharmonious lifestyles; most of us exhaust our portion of Etheric
Vitality  and  are  unable  to  restore  it,  leading  to  physical  and
psychic distress. All existence, including our bodies, is constructed
within a mould of ether (the Etheric Double). We speak of four
conditions of ether: creative, sensate, imprint and kinetic.

ETHERIC CENTERS, SACRED DISCS
Centres of energy and activity (Sanskrit: Chakras) located at
various points on the Etheric Doubles of our bodies. Each of the
three bodies, from the gross material to the more refined, displays
these centres, which correspond to organs of the material body. We
must exercise care in working with these centres, for while it is
necessary for us to develop and awaken certain of them, others are
the domain of the Holy Spirit, the Archangels and the Logos (e.g.,
the ‘root’ and the heart centres) and we should refrain from any
manipulation or direct interference. For ‘Heart Center’ see below.

ETHERIC DOUBLES
Each body of every existence, from the simplest to the most
complex  structures,  possesses  an  Etheric  Double  centred  within
the  body  and  extending  slightly  beyond  it.  The  Etheric  Double
exists as long as the body (whether material, Psychical or Noetical)
is projected. When a body is withdrawn (passes over), its Etheric
Double dissolves. The Etheric Double serves both as the mould for
the  body’s  construction  and  in  the  preservation  of  the  body’s
health.

EXOSOMATOSIS
The literal Greek equivalent of the English expression ‘out of
body experience’. We all leave our bodies each night, during sleep,
and travel to other planes subconsciously. The aim, however, is to
live consciously while out of our bodies. We know of first, second
and third Exosomatosis.

GUARDIAN ARCHANGEL
At the point of our first incarnation, upon passing through the
Human  Idea,  the  Self-aware  Soul  is  protected  and  guided,
throughout its long sojourn into the worlds of separation, by an
Archangel.  This Archangel,  our  faithful  companion,  is  from  the
Archangels of the Thrones.

GROSS MATERIAL WORLD, BODY
The lowest vibration of Mind. Mind made solid to compose
the material world and the bodies.

FAITH
Not only an individual or theoretical belief in the dogmatic
truths of a religion, but an all-embracing relationship, recognition
of,  and  love  for  Absolute  Beingness.  As  such  it  involves  a
complete transformation of a person’s personality, whereby we
are taken up into the whole the anthropic activity of God in Christ
and of man in Christ through which we achieve Theosis. Faith,
above  all,  is  an  active  virtue:  ‘Faith  without  works  is  dead...’
(James 3:26). Also see ‘Repentance’ below.

HEAVENLY MAN/HUMAN IDEA
The Idea of Man or Human Idea. Our bodies are constructed
according to the Causal Law of the Heavenly Man – Human Idea –
Human Form

HEART CENTER
Not  simply  the  physical  organ  but  the  spiritual  centre  of
Mankind’s Being. Man made in the image of Absolute Beingness
as  reason  and  love,  our  truest  self,  our  inner  sanctum,  through
which  the  mystery  of  the  union  between  the  Divine  and  the
mundane  is  consummated.  ‘Heart’  has  thus  an  all-embracing
significance.  Prayer  of  the  heart  means  prayer  not  just  in  the
emotions and affections, but of the whole person. We should strive
to purify this heart for ‘God knoweth your hearts,’ writes Luke
(16:15).

HOLY
All  Creation  is  Holy,  born  of  the  Divine  expression.  That
which is Holy is projected (as opposed to that which is emanated)
from the Divine.

HOLY MONAD, HOLY MONADIC SELF
Thought of as one of countless myriads of ‘cells’ within the
Multiplicity of Absolute Beingness.

HOLY SPIRIT
Impersonal Super-consciousness that expresses the power of
Absolute  Beingness  and  makes  possible  the  Creation  of  the
universes. The dynamic aspect of the Absolute.

IDEA, DIVINE
See under ‘Causes, Ideas and Principles’

INNER SELF
A term indicating the self in its expressions above the present-
day personality.

KARMA
See under Cause & Effect, Law of

LOOKING WITHIN
The process of introspection or self-examination, of ‘knowing
thyself’. This is the core practice of every Researcher of Truth and
all those interested in Self Realization.

MIND
The  Divine  emanation  of Absolute  Beingness  to  which  all
existences  owe  their  construction.  Imbued  with  the  Divine
Wisdom, Love, Power and Purity of its Creator, Mind is not an
immortal  Being,  but  is  eternally  used  as  the  substance  of  all
Creation. Mind is Divine at its source, and Holy in its expression.

NOETIC STATE
A state of Ideas and unexpressed forms beyond the worlds of
separation.  This  state  is  where  we  come  to  rest  in  between
incarnations and where the Archangels derive the forms into which
to breathe life.

NOETICAL IMAGE
A  multi-dimensional  image  of  Noetical  or  Psycho-Noetical
substance,  fanned  by  thought  by  means  of  Noetic  light.  Once
formed it is everlasting, as are all Elementals.

NOETICAL WORLD, BODY
The five dimensional worlds and the most rarefied of the three
worlds of separation. In the Noetical Worlds (home of the Noetical
Body),  the  Total  Wisdom  of  Absolute  Beingness  first  finds
expression  as  form,  ranging  from  universes  and  galaxies  to
unicellular organisms. Time and place are attributes of the Noetical
World, but not in the sense understood in the psychic and material
worlds.

OVERLORDSHIP
In  varying  degrees,  we  find  over  lordship  as  in  a  sense  of
dominion and Divine Authority as ordained from above.

PERMANENT ATOM
That  part  of  the  Permanent  Personality  which  acts  as  the
recorder of the experiences it has received in the place-time worlds.
The Permanent Atom is situated in the etheric heart of each body
simultaneously, and registers all the emotions, thoughts, reactions
and experiences as they occur in the three worlds.

PERMANENT PERSONALITY
The  active  and  expressive  part  of  Soul  in  Self-awareness
within the worlds of separation, which filters knowledge (from the
present-day personalities) and distils Wisdom.

PRESENT, PRESENT-DAY, TEMPORARY
PERSONALITY
A personality developed during each incarnation, whom we
call ‘George or Mary’ or whatever. The present-day personality is
a  projection  of  the  Permanent  Personality  into  the  worlds  of
separation.

PSYCHIC/PSYCHICAL WORLD, BODY
The  four  dimensional  world,  also  known  as  the  ‘world  of
emotions’.  The  super-sensuous  psychic  World  is  composed  of
seven planes, each having seven sub-planes. It is to the psychic
World that we travel in first Exosomatosis, in our Psychical Body,
and to which, on passing over, we first return.

PSYCHO-NOETICAL
The relationship between the psychic World (emotions) and
the Noetical World (thoughts) is often so intimate and interwoven
that we need to consider them as semi-unified. In a thought there is
often emotion, and in every emotion there is a measure of thought.

REPENTANCE
The Greek word for repentance is metanoia, which signifies
primarily  a  change  of  ‘mind’  or  ‘change  of  intellect’:  not  only
sorrow, contrition or regret, but more positively and fundamentally
the conversion or turning of our whole life towards alignment with
Absolute  Beingness’  Divine  Plan. Also  see  ‘Faith’  as  described
above.

SELF-AWARENESS, SELF-AWARE, SELF-
CONSCIOUS
Conscious awareness, in varying degrees, of the Self within
the Divine Plan.

SELFHOOD
The  Personality  as  a  unified,  Divine,  Being.  Selfhood
encompasses all the expression of the Self from Its apex as the
Holy Monadic Spirit-Ego-Being filtered down to the petty present
day  personality.  Within  the  Selfhood  not  a  single  expression  is
devalued; each is cherished in its own right. Our Spirit-Ego-Being
partakes in the Will-pleasure of Absolute Beingness (to express
Itself in Itself) by expressing Itself within its own Selfhood. We
mirror God’s Good Creation within our own good creation, within
our Selfhood.

SELF-REALIZATION
The  Self-Realization  of  the  Permanent  Personality  as
Individuated  Beingness.  The  culmination  of  the  gathering  of
experience  in  the  worlds  of  separation.  At  the  point  of  Self-
Realization, the Permanent Personality reunified with Self-aware
Soul is prepared to assimilate with the Spirit-Ego-Being in Theosis.

SELF-SUFFICIENCY
The  primary  Nature  of  Absolute  Beingness,  in  complete
Abundance, Blessedness and independence of all needs.

SEPARATION, WORLDS OF
This  phrase  covers  the  three  worlds  of  existence  (material,
psychic  and  Noetical)  in  which  our  personalities  spend  their
periods of seeming separation from the Spirit states of At-One-
Ment and Beingness.

SOUL
A Soul is formed when a ray of a Holy Monad passes through
the Idea of Heavenly Man. The Soul is not created; it is a small
pearl from the Spirit which comes to be known as the Self-aware
Soul.  The  Soul  is  in  a  formless  state  as  Spirit,  and  remains
formless. When returning to the Godhead, marries the Spirit-Ego-
Being, it has become fuller.

SPIRIT-EGO-BEING
Our Self in its full divinity, eternal, unmovable. Our Spirit-
Ego-Being is the Self as Holy Monad; in total At-One-Ment with
the Self-sufficiency and Multiplicity of the Godhead. The Will-
pleasure of Absolute Beingness to express Itself within Itself is
identical with the Will of our Spirit-Ego-Being to express Itself in
Its own Selfhood.

SUBCONSCIOUS, SUBCONSCIOUSNESS
Researchers of the Truth understand the triadic nature of Sub
Consciousness. One chamber of the subconscious contains all the
Elementals composing our personality. A second chamber is the
storehouse  of  Etheric  Vitality  (sometimes  called  our  ‘animal
vitality’) The third and most valued chamber is that of the Logos
and Holy Spirit, for it is through the subconscious that the Holy
Spirit and the Logos impart Total Wisdom, Total Power and Total
Love.

SUPER-CONSCIOUSNESS
Super-consciousness is total awareness in Beingness.

SYSTEM FOR THE RESEARCH OF TRUTH
Our  system  of  Esoteric  Christianity  celebrates  the  eternal
truths known to all great religious traditions, while firmly based in
the  teachings  of  the  God-Man  Jesus  Christ  and  the  New
Testament. Through directed study, exercises and meditations, we
seek the balanced evolution and integration of our entire being. Our
approach is methodical, safe and self-evident.

TETRAKTYS
(Pronounced tet-ruk-TEES) A group of four. The elements of
earth, air, fire and water compose a tetraktys.

THEOSIS
At-One-Ment with the One God, Absolute Beingness.

TOTAL LOVE, WISDOM and POWER
Primary Natures of Absolute Beingness and Beings. Forming
a  sacred  triangle  each  Nature  is  dependent  on  the  other  to  be
expressed properly.

WILL-PLEASURE
The  Greek  word  ‘euareskeia’  has  no  exact  equivalent  in
English. It carries a sense of pleasure derived from bountiful giving,
as  practised  by  a  warmly  generous  and  wealthy  source.  Will-
Pleasure was used in preference to ‘bounty’ or ‘charity’ to avoid
misconceptions. We have described euareskeia as ‘God’s pleasure
in creativeness’.