

 
THE PARABLES 
AND  OTHER  STORIES 
Co ve r 
 
 
 
STYLIANOS ATTESHLIS 

 
 
 

The Parables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE PARABLES 
AND OTHER STORIES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Commentary 
 
by 
 
STYLIANOS ATTESHLIS 
 
 (Ph.D., D.D., M. Psy., M. Mcs.) 
 
known as 
 
“DASKALOS” 
 
 
 
 
He never spoke to them except in parables; but 
privately to His disciples he explained everything. 
 
 Mark 4:34  
 
 

The Parables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ISBN 9963-7740-1-6 
 
 
 
 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 
 
 
 
 
Printed in Cyprus 
by IMPRINTA LTD 
P.O. Box 4105 
Nicosia.  
 
 

The Parables 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
I  am  most  grateful  to  John  and  Jeannette  Richards,  to  Ro-
bert  and  Audrey  Browning,  and  to  Paul  Skorpen  for  their  help  
in the preparation of this book 
 
 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
Nicosia 
March 1991 
 
 
 

 
 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
Introduction 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
 
Daskalos  is  often  asked  for  the  inner  meaning  of  the  par-
ables,  which  were  such  a  constant  feature  of  the  teaching  of  
Jesus  the  Christ.  Here  he  comments  on  each  parable  in  the  
terms of his own teaching. 
The  text  used  is  that  given  in  the  ‘New  English  Bible’,  a  
fresh  translation  from  the  best  available  sources, made  with 
the  blessing  of  the  Protestant  Churches  of  the
 United  King-
dom. This version of the New Testament was published jointly 
by the Oxford and Cambridge University Presses in 1961. 
It  is  not  possible  in  a  few  paragraphs  to  give  an  adequate  
summary  of  what  Daskalos  teaches  his  Circles  for  the  Re-
search  of  Truth,    nor  of  the  full  significance  of  the  terms  he  
uses.  The  reader  is  therefore  strongly  advised  to  obtain  and  
study  Daskalos’  book  The  Esoteric  Teachings,  which  is  a  text-
book for the Researchers of Truth. 
Copies  of  The  Esoteric  Teachings,  as  well  of  this  com-
panion volume, can be obtained from Daskalos’ daughter,  
 
 
 
Mrs. Panayiota Theotoki 
P.O. Box 8347 
Nicosia 
Cyprus 
  
 
 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
Index 
INDEX 
 
 
 Page 
 
NEW CLOTH ON AN OLD COAT Matt. 9:16-17 10 
THE UNCLEAN SPIRIT Matt. 12: 43-45 12 
THE SOWER Matt. 13:3-8 & 18-23 16 
THE TARES Matt. 13:24-30 & 37-43 18 
THE MUSTARD SEED Matt. 13:31-32 22 
THE YEAST IN FLOUR Matt. 13:33 24 
THE TREASURE IN A FIELD Matt. 13:44 28 
THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE Matt. 13:45-46 28 
THE NET OF FISHES Matt. 13:47-50 30 
A LAWYER INTO LEARNER Matt. 13:52 32 
THE FEEDING OF FIVE THOUSAND Matt. 14:13-21 34 
THE FEEDING OF FOUR THOUSAND Matt. 15:32-39 35 
WALKING ON WATER Matt. 14:22-33 38 
THE TRANSFIGURATION Matt. 17:1-8 42 
THE LOST SHEEP Matt. 18:12-14 46 
THE UNFORGIVING SERVANT Matt. 18:21-35 48 
THE LABOURERS IN THE VINEYARD Matt. 20:1-16 52 
THE MAN WITH TWO SONS Matt. 21:28-32 56 
THE LANDOWNER’S VINEYARD Matt. 21:33-43 58 
THE WEDDING FEAST Matt. 22:1-14 60 
THE FIG TREE Matt. 24:32-35 64 
THE TRUSTY SERVANT Matt. 24:45-51 66 
THE WISE AND FOOLISH VIRGINS Matt. 25:1-13 68 
THE TALENTS Matt. 25: 70 
 
 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
THE SHEEP & THE GOATS Matt. 25:31-46 76 
THE GROWING SEED Mark 4:26-29 80 
THE TWO DEBTORS Luke 7:39-50 82 
THE GOOD SAMARATIN Luke 10:25-37 88 
THE FRIEND IN NEED Luke 11:5-8 92 
THE RICH FARMER Luke 12:13-21 98 
THE UNFRUITFUL FIG TREE Luke 13:6-9 100 
WHEN INVITED TO A FEAST Luke 14:1-11 102 
THE COST OF DISCIPLESHIP Luke 14:28-43 104 
THE LOST COIN Luke 15:8-10 110 
THE PRODIGAL SON Luke 15:11-32 114 
THE UNJUST STEWARD Luke 16:1-13 120 
THE RICH MAN & LAZARUS Luke 16:19-31 124 
THE UNJUST JUDGE Luke 18:1-8 128 
THE PHARISEE & THE PUBLICAN Luke 18:9-14 130 
THE MARRIAGE AT CANA John 2:1-11 132 
THE GOOD SHEPHERD John 10:1-16 134 
 
 
 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NEW CLOTH ON AN OLD COAT Matt. 9:16-17 
 
 
No  one  sews  a  patch  of  unshrunk  cloth  on  to  an  old   
coat;  for  then  the  patch  tears  away  from  the  coat,  and  leaves   
a  bigger  hole.  No  more  do  you  put  new  wine  into  old  wine-
skins;  if  you  do,  the  skins  burst,  and  then  the  wine  runs  out  
and the  skins  are  spoilt.  No,  you  put  new  wine  into  fresh  
skins; then both are preserved. 
 
 
  
10 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Everything is changing; nothing remains the same, so new 
ideas  don’t  fit  into  old  traditions.  Every  teaching  should  be  in  
ac-cord with its own time and place. When Christianity first ap-
peared,  it  was  Jewish  than  it  is  today,  and  St  Paul  said  that  no  
woman  must  enter  a  church  with  her  head  uncovered.  That  
suited the customs of the time, but now it’s different. We have 
learnt that dress has nothing to do with the disposition to go to 
church. There
 are new ways of looking at things, but that doesn’t 
mean to say that the old ones were wrong. They were in accord 
with their time and place. 
Christ said, ‘I come to fulfill the law, not to abolish it.’ He 
isn’t saying that anyone becoming
 a Christian must abandon and 
forget all they believed before. He accepts the beliefs and habits 
of others.
 Didn’t he say, ‘Other sheep I have which are not of this 
fold’? When I go to a mosque or a Hindu temple, I take off my 
shoes, because that is their custom. St Paul, or even my grand-
mother,  would  have  been  very  shocked  to  see  a  bare-headed 
woman in a miniskirt going to church. But the Archangels don’t 
mind
 at all. They are most tolerant. Anyway, praying in her mini-
skirt,
 she may  be  praying  better  than  her  grandmother.  Nev-
ertheless,  it  would  be  wrong  to  put  your  grandmother  in  a  
miniskirt and take her to church, because it would no be in ac-
cordance
 with her habits and beliefs. We must always respect the 
beliefs and traditions of others. 
The  garment  and  the  wine-skin  stand  for  what  people  are  
believing.
 Jesus is saying: No one can live according to new prin-
ciples  while  still  having  old  beliefs  and  traditions,  because  the  
new principles cannot stick to the old beliefs and traditions. Ev-
erything new should belong to its own time and place. 
 
  
11 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Unclean Spirit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE UNCLEAN SPIRIT Matt. 12:43-45 
 
 
When  an  unclean  spirit  comes  out  of  a  man,  it  wanders  
over  the  deserts  seeking  a  resting-place;  and  finding  none,  it  
says,  ‘I  will
 go back to the home  I left.’ So it returns and 
finds the house unoccupied, swept clean, and tidy. Off it goes 
and  collects  seven  other  spirits  more  wicked  than  itself,  and  
they
 come in and settle down; and in the end the man’s  
plight  is  worse  than  before.  That  is  how  it  will  be  with  this  
wicked generation. 
 
 
  
12 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
The  Bible  speaks  of  ‘unclean  spirits’,  as  in  this  parable.  
We  prefer  the  term  ‘elementals’  instead  of  ‘unclean  spirits’.  
Christ  also  speaks  of  the  unclean  spirits  as  ‘empty,  meaning-
less’,  and  some  call  them  evil  spirits.  We  call  them  all  ‘ele-
mentals’ and in our lessons we classify the elementals into two 
groups: the first we call emotional thought-forms, in which the 
emotions,  the  desires,  even  the  weaknesses  play  the  dominant  
part. The enslave – or, rather, we help those desires to  enslave 
– the mind. Then the elemental so created is an ‘unclean spirit’, 
that  is  a  spirit  to  serve  certain  desires,  wishes,  emotions;  un-
clean, not constructive. We classify the other group of elemen-
tals  as  the  pure  thought-forms,  created  by  reason  and  not  emo-
tion.  We  teach  members  of  our  circles  to  create  and  to  project  
the latter kind of elemental. 
We don’t use the word ‘spirit’, because
 by the word ‘spirit’ 
we  mean  Absolute  Beingness  as  spirit.  We  also  mean  our  own  
being,  which  is  spirit.  ‘God  is  spirit,  and  those  who  worship  
Him  must  worship  in  spirit  and  in  truth’  (John  4:24).  So,  to  
avoid  misunderstanding,  we  call  these  thought-forms,  whether  
emotional thought-forms, or pure thought-forms, ‘elementals’. 
Every  elemental  has  a  definite  form,  with  energy  in  it.  
Every  thought,  every  emotion,  every  desire,  creates  a  though-
form, an emotional thought-form or a pure thought-form. Christ 
knew  that  difference,  when  He  called  these  spirits  or  ele-
mentals  ‘unclean’  and  He  describes  in  this  parable  how  these  
elementals  are  created,  at  the  moment  when  they  leave their 
‘home’.  Their  home  is  the  personality  of  man.  When  an  ele-
mental is created, either by thought or emotion, it vibrates at the 
same  rate  as  its  creator.  So,  when  an  elemental  leaves  that  
personality, the parable says it goes into ‘deserts’, that means  
 
13 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
places where there is no new thought for it to absorb and be re-
vitalized.  It  passes  through  the  fourth  dimensional  world,  not  
deriving strength from it. But it has its own life, its own identi-
ty, and, of course, a kind of intelligence 
The  elemental  says,  ‘I  will  return  home’  to  my  creator  to  
be  re-energized,  to  get  more  energy.  But  in  coming  back,  it  
brings with it ‘another seven more wicked spirits’. Why do we 
attract  such  ‘spirits’,  such  elementals?  Because  we  know  that  
like seeks like and that the elemental vibrates at the same rate as 
other such elementals moving about these ‘deserts’, so they join 
it.  The  elemental,  then,  attracts  such  entities,  vibrating  at  the  
same  rate  of  vibration  as  itself,  or  even  worse,  and  starts  
coming back.  
Now  when  they  come  back,  they  find  that  fellow  with  a  
clean home. That means the man is not all the time thinking in 
an evil way, he’s sometimes good, sometimes – let us call him a 
man  who  is  behaving  stupidly.  That  is  what  the  parable  means  
when it says the spirit finds its home ‘swept and clean’. It also 
finds it unoccupied. 
What  do  we  teach?  That  a  man,  when  disenergizing  an  
elemental,  which  he  does  not  wish  to  return,  must  replace  it  
with  another  good  elemental.  In  this  way,  it  cannot  gain  en-
trance.  That’s  what  we  are  doing  in  our  circles,  always  replac-
ing the antagonistic elementals with creative elementals, so that 
their  creator  does  not  allow  the  bad  ones  to  enter  their  home  
again.  Finding  the  mind  of  a  man  ‘unoccupied’  and  without   
any  good  elementals  to  resist  it,  a  bad  elemental  can  gain  en-
trance. 
Now  ‘seven’,  why  seven?  When  a  class  of  elementals  is  
joined together they become one. Seven elementals of thought- 
 
14 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
power or energy. Yes, but why did the one elemental call seven 
others? Because the gates are seven. 
These  gates  are  what  we  call  the  energy  centres  in  the  
etheric  double  of  a  man.  When  that  elemental  reaches  the  size  
of the body of the man, it enters through the seven gates: geni-
tals,  solar  plexus,  the  spleen,  the  liver,  the  heart,  the  thyroid    
and through the head. These are the seven gates. When it enters 
it  gets  control  over  that  present-day  personality,  forcing  it  to  
think the same thought over and over and over again, so that it 
will  get  more  strength  to  be  not  only  revitalized,  but  gaining  
ever more power to control. 
Now,  Christ  spoke  on  other  occasions  about  curing    peo-
ple  possessed  by  such  elementals.  In  the  case  of  an  elemental  
calling
 itself  Legion,   which had ‘occupied’ or got possession 
of  a  personality,  we  saw  the  phenomenon of  mobility.  In  the  
Bible  Christ  described  clearly  how  such  elementals  are  born,  
created, projected and how they behave, returning home to their 
originator. 
The  Bible  also  states  clearly  that  these  kinds  of  spirits,  as  
they  are  called,  cannot  be  cast  out  from  a  man,  except  by  fast-
ing  and  prayer.  What  does  it  mean  ‘fasting’?   If  a  man  has  a  
very  loaded  stomach,  he  cannot  concentrate  well,  he  cannot  
come  to  sober  thinking.  So  it’s  easier  to  achieve  that  state  of  
mind  by  not  overloading  his  stomach.  That’s  what  ‘fasting’  
means here, not in any other sense. And prayer, what’s prayer? 
Prayer  means  creating  new  elementals,  but  now  pure  thought-
forms. Having in his mind the Deity, Divinity, so a man has the 
help of believing, as well as having the help of the Archangels, 
of  the  Logos,  of  God  Itself.  So,  this  is  how  one  can  cast  out  
these  wicked  or  evil  elementals  from  a  man,  by  sending  him  
pure thought-form elementals as prayers. 
The Sower 
15 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
THE SOWER Matt. 13:3-8  & 18-23 
 
He  said:  A  sower  went  out  to  sow.  And  as  he  sowed,    
some seed fell along the footpath; and the birds came and ate 
it up. Some seed feel on rocky ground, where it had little soil; 
it
 sprouted quickly because it had no depth of earth, but  
when  the  sun  rose,  the  young  corn  was  scorched,  and  as  it    
had  no  root  it  withered  away.  Some  seed  fell  among  thistles;  
and  the  thistles  shot  up,  and  choked  the  corn.  And  some  of    
the  seed  fell  into  good  soil,  where  it  bore  fruit,  yielding  a  
hundredfold,  or,  it  might  be,  sixtyfold,  or  thirtyfold.  If  you  
have ears, then hear. 
 
I  think  Jesus  explains  this,  doesn’t  he?  He  gives  the  full  
explanation. 
 
(18)You,  then,  may  hear  the  parable  of  the  sower.  When  a  
man hears the world that tells of the kingdom but fails to un-
derstand  it,  the  evil  one  comes  and  carries  off  what  has  been  
sown  in  his  heart.  There  you  have  the  seed  sown  along  the  
footpath.  The  seed  sown  on  rocky  ground  stands  for  the  man  
who,  on  hearing  the  word,  accepts  it  at  once  with  joy;  but  as    
it  strikes  no  root  in  him  he  has  no  staying-power,  and  when  
there  is  trouble  or  persecution  on  account  of  the  word  he    
falls  away  at  once.  The  seed  sown  among the  thistles  repre-
sents  the  man  who  hears  the  word,  but  worldly  cares  and  the  
false  glamour  of  wealth  choke  it,  and  it  proves  barren.    But 
the seed that fell into good soil is the man who hears the word 
and  understands  it,  who  accordingly  bears  fruit,  and  yields  a  
hundredfold, or, it may be, sixtyfold or thirtyfold. 
  
16 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
There is no special significance to the ‘hundredfold, sixty-
fold’ and so on. That’s just a quantity. He is saying that if a fel-
low
 digests the truth, knows what is said according to his capaci-
ty  and  ability,  he  will  just  give  whatever  fruit  he  can  and  God  
will be satisfied with whatever he can manage. 
What did Jesus mean when He said ‘If you have ears, then 
hear’? There’s a difference between just hearing something and 
listening and trying to understand what we hear. Just hearing is 
not enough. 
Now,  somebody  is  speaking:  Jesus  Christ  was  preaching,  
speaking. Among those multitudes who were attending, some of 
those present were thinking about different things, not listening 
at  all  to  what  Christ  was  saying,  yet  they  were  ‘hearing’  him.  
They couldn’t close their ears, and the vibrations of sound were 
affecting  their  ears,  but  they  didn’t  really  have  ‘ears  to  hear’.  
Others  had  their  heart  occupied  with  some  other  things,  not  as  
holy!
 Of course, they heard His words, but didn’t have the dispo-
sition,  the  desire  to  think  about  what  they  heard.  They  were  
thinking  about  other  things.  Others  maybe  had  in  their  minds  
wicked, very bad, thoughts, barring the entrance of the words of 
Christ. They were hearing, but not listening and not understand-
ing. 
  The  Greeks  say  ‘Nοῦς ὅρα καἱ νοῦς  ἀκούει
’,  which  
means  it’s  the  mind  which  sees  and  the  mind  which  hears,  not  
the  eyes  or  ears.  When  Christ  said  ‘Those  who  have  ears  will  
hear,’ He didn’t mean the ears on their heads! People may have 
ears
 on the side of their head, but not those ears of the mind, with 
which to listen and really hear. So Christ is saying ‘Those who 
want to hear, and understand, will hear my words.’ Otherwise... 
 
17 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Tares 
 
THE TARES  Matt. 13:24-30 & 36-43 
 
The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  this.  A  man  sowed  his  
field  with  good  seed;  but  while  everyone  was  asleep  his  ene-
my  came,  sowed  darnel*  among  the  wheat,  and  made  off. 
When  the  corn  sprouted  and  began  to  fill  out,  the  darnel   
could be seen among it. The farmer’s men went to their mas-
ter and said, ‘Sir, was it not good seed that you sowed in your 
field?  Then  where  has  this  darnel  come  from?’  ‘This  is  an  
enemy’s  doing,’  he  replied.  ‘Well  men,’  they  said,  ‘shall  we   
go and gather the darnel?’ ‘No,’ he answered;  ‘in gathering
 
it you might put up the wheat at the same time. Let them  
both grow together till harvest; and at harvest-time I will tell 
the reapers, “Gather the darnel first, and tie it in bundles for 
burning; then collect the wheat into my barn.”’ 
(36)  His  disciples  came  to  him  and  said,  Explain  to  us  the  
parable  of  the  darnel  in  the  field.’  And  this  was  his  answer:  
The
 sower of the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is  
the  world;  the  good  seed  stands  for  the  children  of  the  king-
dom,  the  darnel  for  the  children  of  the  evil  one.  The  enemy  
who  sowed  the  darnel  is  the  devil.  The  harvest  is  the  end  of  
time. The reapers are angels. As the darnel, then, is gathered 
up and burnt, so at the end of time the Son of Man will send 
out his angels, who will gather out of his kingdom everything 
that  causes  offence,  and  all  whose  deeds  are  evil,  and  these  
will  be  thrown  into  the  blazing  furnace,  the  place  of  wailing  
and  grinding  of  teeth.  And  then  the  righteous  will  shine  as  
brightly as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. If you have 
ears to hear, then hear.  
 
(*‘Darnel’  is  a  type  of  rye-grass  which  sprouts  among  wheat,  but  is  
noticeable until the wheat is fairly well-grown.) 
  
18 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Now  this  is  a  very,  very  precious  parable.  Jesus  speaks  
about  the  Truth,  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  goodness  and  good  
actions.  He  tells  us  that  circumstances,  or  awkward  times,  are  
sowing  the  bad  seed  in  our  field.  Jesus  explains  the  ‘field’    as 
meaning  ‘the  world’.  We  can  also  think  of  it  as  meaning  our  
present-day  personality,  which  is  the  sum  total  of  our  elemen-
tals,  good  and  evil.  Both  seeds  grow,  so  you  cannot  pluck  out  
what  you  might call  evil  thoughts,  or  evil  emotions,  without  
destroying  the  good  emotions  as  well.  Let  them  both  grow,  
because  in  time  the  harvest  will  come;  that  means,  what  is  
good  will  be  acknowledged.  But  what  is  evil  will  also  be  
known. The  Archangels  will  sort  put  what’s  good  from  each  
person and will disenergize evil elementals, the bad weeds, and
 
throw them away. And how do they do it?  By Reason. So,       
a man  is  living  according  to  his  quality  and  is  producing  good  
fruit  and  also  some  evil  weeds.  Jesus  says  that the  ‘reapers’,   
the Archangels and the angels, will sooner or later separate the 
good  fruit  from  what  you  could  call  the  evil  weeds.  That’s 
clear.  He  speaks  about  the  Law  of  Destiny,  that  most  wise   
Law,  and  here  he  gives  the  perfect  explanation.  The  good  seed  
will  be  kept while  what  is  evil  will  be  annihilated, will be 
burned. He speaks of fire. What is fire in this case? Michael the 
Archangel of the sun – Mind or Reason. Reason will burn every
 
thought which we consider as evil. Sooner or later the     
harvest will come; Everyone will come to acknowledge the re-
ality  of  things.  ‘Fire’  here  is  Mind,  with  which  we  can  burn 
what is evil.  
We  should  not,  think  of  this  selection  as  keeping ‘good 
spirits’  and  burning  the  ‘bad  spirits’.  There  are  no  bad  spirits.  
All spirits are good. Spirits are separate from time and space  
  
19 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
and  it  is  only  their  behaviour  which  may  be  considered  as  bad 
in  the  worlds  of  separation.  But  can  you  easily  distinguish   
good and  bad?  You  see  a  man’s  actions.  You  see  a  man’s 
thoughts,  wishes,  emotions,  but  you  don’t  know  what’s  behind 
all  those  that  you  see  in  expression.  And  then,  again,  what  is 
evil  and  what  is  good?  The  ripening  of  the  seeds  will  show  us 
what is what. 
  
20 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
21 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Mustard Seed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE MUSTARD SEED Matt. 13: 31-32 
 
 
The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  a  mustard-seed,  which  a  
man  took  and  sowed  in  his  field.   As  a  seed,  mustard  is  
smaller  than  any  other;  but  when  it  has  grown it  is  bigger  
than  any  garden-plant;  it  becomes  a  tree,  big  enough  for  the  
birds to come and roost among its branches.
   
22 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
When  it  is  planted  in  the  right  place,  the  mustard-seed 
grows  more  easily  than  other  plants,  because  although,  as  the  
parable  says,  it  is  the  smallest  of  seeds  it  will  grow  very  large.  
So  never  mind  if  you  think  a  fellow  is  very,  very  small.  When  
Beingness  comes  to  life,  and  is  well  looked  after,  it  will  grow  
and give much benefit – even food.  Christ wanted us not to de-
spise  people  whom  we  think  of  as  children,  or  stupid.  Such  
people need love and training. Christ planted this small seed in 
good  ground  –  that  is  Christianity  –  and  if  you  care  for  it  and  
look  after  it,  the  plant  can  become  so  big  that  birds  come  and  
rest on its branches. Who, then, are the birds? People in need of 
shelter.  Anyone  who  is  in  need  can  come  to  take  refuge  and 
such  a  fellow  can  then  be  of  help  to  others  and  take  care  of  
them. 
The  mustard-seed  also  stands  for  truth.  When  it  starts  to  
grow  within  us,  it  will  become  our  code  for  life.  Just  a  simple  
thought
 on truth can grow and grow,   just like the   mustard-
seed,  and  become  a  principle  which  will  guide  us  through  our  
life. At first, it is so simple and small, we may not recognise it 
as the truth,  but once we have understood it and have sown it,  
it grows into a whole system, guiding our behaviour and build-
ing  our  character.  Such  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  It  will  build  
up the truth within us. Can evil be like that? No!  
 
23 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Yeast in Flour 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE YEAST IN FLOUR Matt. 13:13 
 
 
The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  yeast,  which  a  woman  
took and mixed with half a hundred weight of flour till it was 
all leavened. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(The  Greek  literally  translated  says  ‘which  a  woman  took  and  hid  in 
three sata of flour. The saton  was  a  large  Aramaic  measure,  of  about 
35 lbs.) 
  
24 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
This  is  a  parable  we  have  often  explained.  Of  course,  Je-
sus  was  not  just  giving  advice  to  bakers!  The  ‘kingdom  of  
heaven’  means  the  whole  sense  of  life  from  beginning  to  end;  
the  realizing  of  your  God-Self.  The  three  measures  of  flour  (I  
don’t like ‘half a hundred weight’; it destroys the meaning) are 
the  three  bodies:  the  material  body,  with  its  etheric  double,  its
 
yeast,   the psychic body (astral body some call it)   or emo-
tional  body,  with  its  etheric  double,  its  yeast,  and  the  noetic  
body, or the mind body; three bodies.  
We  say  that  these  three  bodies,  the  three  of  them    togeth-
er,  compose  the  present-day  personality  of  a  human  being.  A  
human being has a material body, a feeling or emotional body, 
and  a  thinking,  if  not  reasoning  (sometime  it  will  be  reason-
ing),   but   thinking   body.   That   present-day   personality,   the   
‘woman’,  is  ‘mixing’,  that  means  ‘using  properly’,  reasonably,  
these  three  measures  of  flour,  the  material  body,  the  psychic  
(emotional)  and  the  noetic  (mind)  body  together,  under the 
control  of  the  mind,  the  reason.  The  water  (not   mentioned 
there,  but  understood),  with  which  the  woman  mixes  the  yeast 
into  the  three  measures  of  flour,  until  all  of  them  become  lea-
vened,  is  energy.  There  is  no  reasoning  without  energy  in  it. 
She makes one holy substance.  
Now,  the  yeast  is  what  we  call  etheric  vitality,  of  which  
the etheric double is made. Again, it is Mind at a different rate 
of  vibration.  The  water,  which  the  woman  must  use  to  mix  the  
yeast into the three measures of flour, can also stand for Truth.  
Unless
 the material body, the psychic body and the noetic 
body  become  one  in  Truth,  how  can  we  enter  the  kingdom  of  
heaven?  If  you,  the  ‘woman’,  do  not  mix  them  all  together,  
unify them, your present-day personality is not doing what it 
 
25 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
must.    Mixing only the material  body  with  the  psychic  body, 
the  body  of  the  emotions,  without  mixing  in  right  thinking, 
thought and Mind, is not enough.  
The
 personality is one. The ‘woman’ is the present-day 
personality and  the  Permanent  Personality  behind  it.  The  pre-
sent-day  personality  is the  extension  of  the  Permanent  Person-
ality. It is a line with two ends; one end is the present-day per-
sonality,  the  other  is  the  Permanent  Personality.  But  they  are 
definitely  one.  The  present-day  personality  is  the  expression 
from  time  to  time  of  the  Permanent  Personality  in  time  and 
space.  There  is  a  difference  all  right,  but  the  Permanent  Per-
sonality,  the  Soul-Ego,  is  the  unchanging  Personality,  which  is 
assimilating,  storing  and  expressing  the  experiences  of  all  its 
many present-day personalities.  
Now,  the  water;  shall  we  not  call  that  water  the  pulse  of 
life?  I  like  this  expression  - the  pulse  of  life.  When  Christ  was 
talking  to  the  Samaritan  woman,  (John  4:7)   He  said  to  her  at 
the well ‘Give me to drink.’ Of course it was a daring thing to 
do, and she told Him, ‘How is it that you, a Judean, are asking 
from a Samaritan woman?’   (There was a great enmity between 
these  two  tribes  of  the  Jews.)  He  said,  ‘Woman,  give  me  to  
drink.’ And  He  told  her  that  those  who  drink  water  from  this 
well will get  thirsty  again.  They  will  be  in  need  of  drinking 
water  and  more  water  and  more  water.  ‘But  those  who drink  
the  water  I  will  give  them  will  never  feel  thirsty  in  eternity,  in 
centuries.’  Then  of  course  that  woman  said  to  him,  ‘Sir, give 
me  of  that  water  so  that  I  will  not  be  obliged  to  come  to  this 
well  any  more.’  What  did  He  say?  ‘I  am  the  water  of  life’. 
Christ called Himself the light of the world, as well as the wa-
ter of life. We should notice, in the parables and teaching of the  
 
26 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
God-man,  where  he  mentions  the  elements  in  their  higher  
vibrations  and  deeper  meanings  than  as  we  know  them,  see  
them and understand them in the gross material world. 
 
 
 
The Treasure in a Field 
27 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE TREASURE IN A FIELD Matt. 13:44 
 
The kingdom of heaven is like treasure lying buried in a 
field. The man who found it, buried it again; and for sheer joy 
went and sold everything he had, and bought that field. 
 
 
 
The Pearl of Great Price 
 
THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE Matt. 13:45-46 
 
Here  is  another  picture  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  A  
merchant  looking  out  for  fine  pearls  found  one  of  very   
special  value;  so  he  went  and  sold  everything  he  had,  and  
bought it.  
28 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
These  two  parables  are  about  the  same  thing.  In  the  first, 
the  ‘field’   is  the  material  body,  matter,  earth,  soil.  The  ‘treas-
ure’  is  Soul-Self-Awareness.  Once  anyone  has  found  the  treas-
ure  in  the  field,  which  means  they  have  found  Self-Awareness 
within  them,  they  don’t care  any  more  about  external  posses-
sions.  That  person  sells  everything  and  concentrates  on  the 
treasure.  And  the  treasure  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  ‘Bought
 
that field’ means realizing that it’s  You inside the human   
form, so it is You that takes on the human form.  
In  the  second  parable,  the  pearl  is  our  Ego.  This  is  a  dif-
ferent  way  of  putting  the  parable  about  the  field  and  the  treas-
ure.  A  merchant  was  on  the  lookout  for  fine  pearls  and  was 
collecting  them,  but  when  he  found  that  most  precious  pearl,   
he didn’t   care about the others he had, or the cost, and sold all 
that  he  had  to  acquire  the  precious  one.  ‘Sold  them’  means    
that  he  gave  them  up.  The  pearls  he  already  had  were  his  ma-
terial  body,  his  emotions,  his  desires,  his  way  of  living,  his  re-
lationships  and  all  the  enjoyment  he  had  from  them.  This  was 
something he had spent his life collecting and which he valued 
until  he  found  his  inner  Self,  his  Ego-Self.  Only  after
 banish-
ing his egoism – the sum total of all his other treasures – could 
he  acquire  that  precious  pearl,  his  Ego,  his  inner  Self.  When    
he  had  found  it,  he  didn’t want  anything  else  and  was
 con-
cerned only with Self-Realization.   
29 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Net of Fishes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE NET OF FISHES Matt. 13:47-50 
 
 
Again
 the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  a  net  let  down  into 
the sea, where fish of every kind were caught in it. When it was 
full,  it  was  dragged  ashore.  Then  the  men  sat  down  and  
collected  the  good  fish  into  pails  and  threw  the  worthless  
away.  That  is  how  it  will  be  at  the
 end of time.    The angels 
will go forth, and they will separate the wicked from the  
good, and  throw  them  into  the  blazing  furnace,  the  place  of  
wailing and grinding of teeth. 
  
30 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
What  is  this  ‘blazing  furnace,  the  place  of  wailing  and 
grinding  of  teeth’?  It  is  incarnation  on  the  material  plane.  All 
the ‘fish’, souls, are caught up in the same net, but it is not the 
net which counts, it is your quality as a fish; how you have de-
veloped.  The  net  is  the  act  of  passing  over;  so-called  death.  At 
the end of material incarnation, after passing over, the Archan-
gels  and  all  the  angels  will  see  what  they  have  collected  from 
that ‘net’. They choose the good ones (the enlightened ones) to 
be  absorbed  into  a
 higher form of life – isn’t that what hap-
pens when you eat a fish? - and throw the others back into ma-
terial incarnation, to develop further.  
There  are  two  sorts  of  fire,  which  Jesus  speaks  of  –  inter-
nal and external – both of which are derived from the Everlast-
ing
 Fire, which is God. The internal fire is your real nature,   
the Spirit-Soul.  The  external  fire  is  that  part of  the  Everlasting 
Fire,  which  has  been harnessed  and  formed  into  worlds  of 
matter. In this parable, the ‘blazing furnace’ is external fire, by 
which  Jesus  means  the  world  of  gaining  experience,  living  on 
the planet, the place where ‘fire’ is destroying what ought to be 
destroyed.   The   ‘good’ people,   those   who have   used   their 
incarnations  to  learn  their  lessons,  who  have  been  purified  by 
this external  fire,  will  go  to  their  life  of  joy.  Those  who  are 
‘bad’,
  who have not made proper use of incarnation, come 
back again to learn more of the Truth. 
The  Everlasting  Fire  is  life,  real  Life,  not  manifested  as  a 
phenomenon  of  life,  but  as  an  eternal  flame  which  is  God  It-
self. You,  as  a  Spirit-Soul,  are  a  spark  of  the  Everlasting  Fire, 
radiated from  God  into  the  material  world,  the  ‘blazing  fur-
nace’ of external fire, but each one of you is at the same time a 
part of that everlasting Fire. 
A Lawyer into Learner 
31 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A LAWYER INTO LEARNER Matt. 13:52 
 
 
When,  therefore,  a  teacher  of  the  law  has  become  a  
learner  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  he  is  like  a  householder  
who can produce from his store both the old and the new. 
 
32 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  ‘householder’  is  the  Permanent  Personality.
    When 
the  Personality  has  learnt  the  new  rules  of  the  kingdom  of  
heaven,
   it will be able to bring out its ‘store’   (the   Perma-
nent Atom, where the experiences of its many present-day per-
sonalities’  expressions  are  held),    precious  possessions  both    
new  and  old.  Jesus  is  saying  that  valuable  treasures,  both  old  
and  new  are  allowed.  We’ll  carry  them  with  us,  and  not  lose  
them.  This  is  just  like  the  teaching  where  He  tells  us  to  store
  
our treasures in heaven and not on earth, so that they cannot   
be spoilt by rust and moths,  or stolen by thieves.  Then we shall  
be able to have our treasures in the kingdom of heaven. 
 
  
  
33 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Feeding of Five Thousand 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE FEEDING OF FIVE THOUSAND Matt. 14:13-21 
 
Jesus withdrew  privately  by  boat  to  a  lonely  place;  but  
the  people  heard  of  it,  and  came  after  him in  crowds  by  land  
from  the  towns.   When  he  came  ashore,   he  saw  a  great  
crowd;   his  heart  went  out  to  them,  and  he  cured  those  of  
them that were sick. When it grew late, the disciples came up 
to  him  and  said,    ‘This  is  a  lonely  place,    and  the  day  has  
gone;  send  the  people  off  to  the  villages  to  buy  themselves  
food.’  He  answered,  ‘There  is  no  need  for  them  to  go;  give  
them  something  to  eat  yourselves.’  ‘All  we  have  here,’  they  
said  ‘is  five  loaves  and  two  fishes.’  ‘Let  them  have  them,’  he  
replied.  So  he  told  the  people  to  sit  down  on  the  grass;  then,  
taking the five loaves and two fishes, he looked up to heaven, 
said  the  blessing,  broke  the  loaves,  and  gave  them  to  the  dis-
sciples; and the disciples gave them to the people. They all ate 
to  their  hearts’  content;  and  the  scraps  left  over,  which  they  
picked up, were enough to fill twelve great baskets. Some five 
thousand men shared this meal, to say nothing of women and 
children.  
34 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Feeding of Four Thousand 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE FEEDING OF FOUR THOUSAND Matt. 15:32-39 
 
Jesus  called  his  disciples  and  said  to  them,  ‘I  feel  sorry  
for  all  these  people,  they  have  been  with  me  now  for  three  
days and have nothing to eat. I do not want to send them away 
unfed;  they  might  turn  faint  on  the  way.’ The  disciples  
replied,   ‘Where  in  this  lonely  place  can  we  find  bread   
enough  to  feed  such  a  crowd?’     ‘How  many  loaves  have   
you?’     Jesus  asked.   ‘Seven,’    they  replied,   ‘and  there  area  
few small fishes.’  So he ordered the people to sit down on the 
ground;  then  he  took  the  seven  loaves  and  the  fishes,  and 
after giving thanks to God he broke them and gave to the dis-
ciples,  and  the  disciples  gave  to  the  people.  They  all  ate  to 
their  hearts’  content;  and  the  scraps  left  over,  which  they  
picked  up,  were  enough  to  fill  seven  baskets.  Four  thousand  
men  shared  this  meal,   to  say  nothing  of  women  and  chil-
dren. He then dismissed the crowds, got into a boat, and went 
to the neighborhood of Megadan. 
 
  
35 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
In  our  text  of  the  New  Testament,  it  says  that  Christ  fed,  
on  one  occasion,  five  thousand  and,  on  another  occasion,  four
 
thousand, with only a few loaves of bread and some fishes.  
The  exact  number  of  people  He  fed  is  not  really  important.  
What  is  important  is  that  He  turned  ether  into  matter.  Christ  is  
now  feeding  thousands  and  thousands  and  thousands  all  over  
the  planet.  Feeding  the  multitudes  was  not  just  done  once.  He  
fed  greater  numbers  or  less  numbers  on  various  other  occa-
sions. The evangelists have just told us about two of them.  
Jesus  said,  ‘I  am  the  Bread  from  Heaven.’  And  we  say  
‘Give us this day our daily bread.’    Now, are the numbers real-
ly of interest to us, or the event? What’s  the event? The event is 
that  Christ,  God,  the  God-Man,  was  doing  what  we  call  mir-
acles. He was the ONLY God-Man; all others who succeeded in 
ascending  –  the  masters  of  the  past  –  were  men-gods,  who  
ascended  through  many  reincarnations;  there’s only  one  God-
Man, Christ, Jesus Christ. So, by reading the Bible, and know-
ing what Christ was doing, we cannot do otherwise man accept 
and believe. So Christ Himself is the bread from heaven.  
Now,
 what did He say at the Last Supper? Giving bread  
to  the  disciples,  cutting  some  bread  and  giving  it  to  them,  He  
said, ‘Take and eat. This is my body. This is my flesh.’ Giving 
them  bread;  ‘I  am  the  bread  from  heaven’.  Giving  them  wine,  
He  said,  ‘This  is  my  blood,  that  gives  life.’  These  two  things   
are
 both symbolical and real. Eating bread we prolong the life 
of  the  material  body  and  the  other  bodies  (cf.  Psalm  104:15).  
Christ the God-Man was the master of all the elements. We see 
on
 many, many occasions, the phenomena of materialization 
and  dematerialization.  So  was  it  difficult  for  the  God-   Man  to  
take  energy  from  the  surrounding  ether  and  form  it  and  
 
36 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
shape  it  into  bread,  real  pieces  of  bread,  and  then  give  them  to 
those hungry people to eat?  
Christ,  the  God-Man,  was  the  master  of  materialization 
and  dematerialization.  Was  the  God-Man  the  only  master  of 
materializations   and   dematerializations?   Many   others   have 
achieved  that,  and  are  doing  so  even  now.  We  have  masters  of 
materialization  and  dematerialization  in  our  own  time,  but   
they  have  a  great  respect  towards  the  work  of  the  Archangels, 
the  Lords  of  the  elements.  They  do  not  do  it  just  to  show  to
 
people that they know how it’  s done. But Jesus Christ, the 
God-Man,  was  doing  everything  by  authority.  By  authority. 
Other  human  beings  do  not  have  that  authority  and  must  re-
spect the work of the Archangels.  
37 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
Walking on Water 
 
 
 
 
 
WALKING ON WATER  Matt. 14:22-33  
 
Then  he  made  the  disciples  embark,  and  go  on  ahead  to  
the  other  side,  while  he  sent  the  people  away;  after  doing    
that,  he  went  up  the  hillside  to  pray  alone.  It  grew  Me,  and    
he was there by himself. The boat was already some furlongs 
from  the  shore,  battling  a  head-wind  and  a  rough  sea.  Be  
tween three and six in the morning he came to them, walking 
over the lake. When the disciples saw him walking on the lake 
they  were  so  shaken  that  they  cried  out  in  terror:  ‘It  is  a  
ghost!’ But at once he spoke to them: ‘Take heart! It is I; do 
not be afraid.’  
Peter called to him: ‘Lord, if it is you, tell me to come to 
you  over  the  water.’  ‘Come,’  said  Jesus.  Peter  stepped  down  
from  the  boat,  and  walked  over  the  water  towards  Jesus.  But 
when he saw the strength of the gale he was seized with fear, 
and  beginning  to  sink,  he  cried,  ‘Save  me,  Lord.’  Jesus  at  
once reached out and caught hold of him and said, ‘Why did 
you  hesitate?  How  little  faith  you  have!’  They  then  climbed  
into the boat; and the wind dropped. And the men in the boat 
fell at his feet, exclaiming, ‘Truly you are the Son of God.’   
 
  
38 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Now,  this  is  another  actual  event,  a  real  event,  mentioned 
in the Bible. When the disciples went fishing, Jesus usually re-
mained  behind  to  pray.   We  know  from  what  we  read  that  all 
the  disciples  and  Christ  used  to  meet  in  the  garden  of  Gethse-
mane.  What  was  He  saying  to  them  on  these  occasions?  Was  
he  not  teaching  them  privately  things  that  he  was  not    preach-
ing  openly
 to the multitudes? He was preaching just such 
things  as  this,  how  to  have  faith;  what  they  themselves  could 
do.  You  will  find  His  instructions  in  many  places  in  the  New 
Testament.  
Now,  why  did  Christ  walk  on  the  water  like  that?  Maybe 
to  test  them?  He  walked  all  the  way  from  the
 shore to their 
ship,  walking  on  the  water.  When  he  got  there,  Peter,  remem-
bering the lessons to them in the
 Garden of Gethsemane, wanted 
to  test  himself.
 He was the enthusiastic disciple.  He  said,  ‘Sir, 
if it’s you, I am coming to you.’ Jesus said, ‘Come!’  
Well,  Peter  started  walking  on  the  water,  but  when  he 
didn’t feel  he  had  enough
 faith, he began to sink. Then he 
called to Jesus to help him, which Jesus did. But we see Christ 
rebuking  him  too.  Why?  ‘I’ m  teaching  you  all  that.  You  know 
all that, and still you are doubting.’ Well, Christ taught his dis-
ciples – you will find it in many places in the New Testament – 
‘If  you  have  faith  only  as  the  seed
 of a mustard-creeper, you 
tell  that  mountain  “Go!”  and  it  will  go.’  They  were  seeing  so 
many
 phenomena which are called miracles done by Christ,   
all  the  time  they  were  with  Him,  shouldn’t  they  be  doing  the 
same?  Why  was  He  taking  them  with  him?  Christ  Himself 
sometimes  lost  His  patience  and  was  blaming  them,  but  of
 
course it is not for us to do so. So, in  this event, Peter tested  
his faith. 
 
39 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
Now,  walking  on  the  water  was  very  easy  for  Christ,  the 
God-Man,  being  the  Lord  God,  the  Master  of  elements  and  all 
the  laws  of  the  elements.  Even  now,  don’t   you  think  there  are 
people who can walk on water? All through the centuries in all 
parts of the world, haven’t   some of those whom the people call 
saints  been  able  to  walk  on  water?  And  not  only  walk  on  wa-
ter,  but  fly  in  the  air?  What's  that?  Levitation!  Nothing  more 
than  that.  And  levitation  is  a  phenomenon  you  can  see  even 
now.  So,  this  was  simply  a  demonstration  of  levitation,  or 
maybe  semi-materialization  to  make  His  body  visible,  but 
lighter than water.  
He was trying to teach His disciples it was something that 
was possible for everyone to do. 
  
40 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
41 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Transfiguration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE TRANSFIGURATION Matt. 17:1-8  
 
Six days later, Jesus took Peter and James and John the 
brother  of  James,  and  led  them  up  a  high  mountain  where  
they  were  alone;  and  in  their  presence  he  was  transfigured;  
his  face  shone  like  the  sun,  and  his  clothes  became  white  as  
the  light  And  they  saw  Moses  and  Elijah  appear,  conversing  
with  him.  Then  Peter  spoke:  ‘Lord,’  he  said,  ‘how  good  it  is  
that  we  are  here!  If  you  wish  it,  I  will  make  three  shelters  
here,  one  for  you,  one  for  Moses  and  one  for  Elijah.’  While  
he  was  still  speaking,  a  bright  cloud  suddenly  overshadowed  
them, and a voice called from the cloud: ‘This is my Son, my 
Beloved,  on  whom  my  favour  rests;  listen  to  him.’  At  the  
sound  of  the  voice  the  disciples  fell  on  their  faces  in  terror.  
Jesus  then  came  up  to  them,  touched  them  and  said,  ‘Stand 
up;  do  not  be  afraid.’  And  when  they  raised  their  eyes,  they  
saw no one, but only Jesus.  
  
42 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
  
The Transfiguration of the God-Man, Jesus, was a   reali-
ty.  What  happened,  then,  when  He  Himself  with  three  disci-
ples,  those  who  could  understand  more  than  the  others,  went     
to  that  mountain?  Maybe  that  was  a  necessity  for  the  Man  Je-
sus-Joshua,  to  raise  his  personality  to  the  level  of  his  Divine  
Inner  Self,  the  God-Man,  the  Logos.  Of  course,  the  body  of  
Joshua-Jesus  Christ  was  in  a  state  which  could  endure  those  
most high vibrations of light and fire, which previously human 
beings  could  not  stand.  Take  Elijah.  It  says  in  the  Old  Testa-
ment
 that Elijah was raised into heaven in a chariot of fire. 
This is what  they saw or thought  they  saw.  It  means  that  Eli-
jah,  the  man-god,  reaching  his  Divine  state,  tried  to  attune  
himself  to  that  state.  And  what  happened?  His  material  body  
dissolved  in  a  flame.  We  read  of  such  events,  not  only  in  the  
Old
 and New Testament, but  in  many  stories  of  other  coun-
tries.  Christ,
 the God-Man, had a body which could stand  
those  vibrations  and  his  body  was  shining  like  the  sun.  It  was  
no  less  radiant  than  the  material  sun.  Maybe  it  was  even  
brighter.  The  disciples  could  not  stand  this  total  light  and  they  
fell to the ground, face downwards.  
Now,  what  is  interesting  here,  and  not  much  observed,  is  
that  near  Him  stood  Moses  and  Elijah.  Who  were  they?  In  
another  chapter  we  read  that,  when  speaking  of  His  inner  Self,  
Joshua,  not  yet  33  years  of  age  in  a  material  body,  said,  ‘Your 
father  Abraham  rejoiced  to  see  my  day:  and  he  saw it  and  was  
glad’  (John  8:  56).  In  the  Psalms  too,  we  read  that  ‘before  the  
mountains and the earth and everything was, thou art God’ (cf. 
Psalms  90:2).  GOD  IS.  He  was  speaking  about  the  Eternal  
Now,  not  as  past,  present  and  future.  And  of  course  the  Phari-
sees
 there got angry. ‘You’re not even 50 years old and you  
  
43 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
say you’ve seen Abraham?’ They wanted to pick up stones and 
stone  him.  ‘Our  fathers,’  they  told  him, ‘Abraham,  Moses,  
Elijah  and  others  have  died.’  He  said  ‘No!  The  God  of  Abra-
ham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob  is  not  God  of  the  dead,  but  God  of  the  
living’  (Matt.  22:  32).  So  Christ  was  abolishing  the  idea  of  
death,  of  annihilation.  So  what  appeared  on  the  mount  with  
Christ,  whom  the  Apostles  saw  as  Moses  and  Elijah?  During  
the  time  of  Jesus,  where  were Moses  and  Elijah?  Who  knows?  
Were they incarnated? Discarnate? In a higher and higher state 
of  Superconsciousness?  It  doesn’t say  anything  about  it  there.  
But  anyhow,  they  were  most  holy.  I  believe  they  were  living    
in
 their Superconscious state of existence, so they could ap-
pear in human form. Brilliant though, in that sun of light of Je-
sus.  
Someone  reading  the  Bible  should  not  just  fix  his  atten-
tion on the words, but should enter into the meaning of what is 
written  there  and  try  to  understand  the  truth  in  it,  not  just  re-
garding  Jesus  as  a  human  being  very  little  understood,  doing  
that  and  that  as  phenomena,  as  miracles.  As  we  teach  it,  there  
are   NO   MIRACLES   other   than   one   - Life,   the   Absolute   
Beingness.  Everything  happening,  everything  which  happened 
throughout  time,  are  events  in  time  and  space.  We  must  try  to  
study  such  events,  not  only  in  the  Bible,  but  in  the  holy  scrip-
tures  of  all  civilizations,  so  as  to  enter  into  the  Truth  behind  
them. Studying the Gospel, we should study Jesus Christ as He 
presented  Himself.  I  am  the  Way;  the  events  happening.  I  am  
the Way, Truth and Life. Apart from the Way, the happenings, 
the  events  which  happened  and  will  happen,  I  am  the  Truth  be  
hind  it.  And  Life.  Life  is  Truth.  Studying  the  New  Testament  
we must have eyes to see and ears to hear.  
  
44 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
45 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Lost Sheep 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE LOST SHEEP Matt. 18:12-14 
 
What  do  you  think?  Suppose  a  man  has  a  hundred  
sheep. If one of them strays, does he not leave the other nine-
ty-nine  on  the  hillside  and  go  in  search  of  the  one  that  
strayed?  And  if  he  should  find  it,  I  tell  you  this:  he  is  more  
delighted over that sheep than over the ninety-nine that  nev-
er  strayed.  In  the  same  way  it  is  not  your  heavenly  Father’s  
will that one of these little ones should be lost. 
 
  
46 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
This  is  one  of  the  best  parables.  Jesus  is  saying  that  even 
for  the  greatest  sinner  who
 has gone astray, the Father cares 
and  wants  to  bring  him  back.  ‘For  the  moment,  I  care  about  
him
 more than the  ones  who  are  already  there.’  When  Jesus 
said  ‘more delighted’,  He  didn’t   mean  that  the  shepherd  went 
after  the  one  lost  sheep  without  caring  about  the  other  ninety-
nine.  The  ninety-nine  were  safe  where  they  were.  It’s not  that 
the
 Father loves this one  and  not  that  one.  The  ones  that  are 
safe  can  wait  a  bit,  but  the  lost  one  needs  His  immediate  care 
and  attention  and  it  makes  Him  happy  when  he  has  saved  the 
one in danger.  
Jesus  explains  things  clearly.  The  Father  in  heaven  is  not 
disposed to let go of even one Soul-Self awareness. Even if, as  
a  present-day  personality,  it  is  asleep  and  misled  in  the  world  
of  separation,  the  Lord  is  taking  care  of  it.  He  will  call  us   
back,  He  will  find  us,  no  matter  where  we  are,  in  whatever   
mud we are now lying, to ‘save’ us so that we can be joined to 
the Father. That’s  the Love of God.  
This  story  should  be  read  by  some  of  those  priests,  who 
threaten  people  with  a  literal  hell,  burning  fire  and  agonies.  I 
have spoken to such dignitaries of the Church. ‘What kind of a 
merciful  God  do  you  believe  in,’  I  asked  them,  ‘who  created 
men  to  live  for  40  years,  or  maybe  50,  60  or  even  100,  and   
then  because  of  their  way  of  life,  which  you  call  evil,  would 
cast  them  interminably  into  a  hell  of  fire?   That’s  not
 a merci-
ful  God!  He  must  be  the  worst  sadist,  the  worst  sort  of  devil; 
not a merciful God.’  
This  parable  should  be  read  by  those  who  are  preaching   
or  threatening  people  with  an  eternal  hell.  Really,  Christianity 
has suffered a lot from such stupidity and ignorance.  
 
47 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Unforgiving Servant 
 
THE UNFORGIVING SERVANT  Matt. 18: 21-35 
 
Then  Peter  came  up  and  asked  him,  ‘Lord,  how  often   
am  I  to  forgive  my  brother  if  he  goes  on  wronging  me?  As  
many  as  seven  times?’   Jesus  replied,  ‘I do  not  say  seven;  I   
say seventy times seven.’ 
The  kingdom  of  heaven,  therefore,  should  be  thought  of  
this   way:   there   was   once   a   king   who   decided   to   settle    
accounts  with  the  men  who  served  him.  At  the  outset  there  
appeared  before  him  a  man  whose  debt  ran  into  millions.  
Since  he  had  no  means  of  paying,  his  master  ordered  him  to  
be  sold  to  meet  the  debt,  with  his  wife,  his  children  and  
everything  he  had.  The  man  fell  prostrate  at  his  master’s   
feet.
 ‘Be patient with me’ he said, ‘and I will pay  in full’ ; 
and the master was so moved with pity that he let the man go 
and  remitted  the  debt.  But  no  sooner  had  the  man  gone  out  
than  he  met  a  fellow-servant  who  owed  him  a  few  pounds;  
and  catching  hold  of  him  he  gripped  him  by  the  throat  and  
said,  ‘Pay  me  what  you  owe.’   The  man  fell  at  his  fellow-
servant’s  feet  and  begged  him,  ‘Be  patient  with  me,  and  I    
will  pay  you’;  but  he  refused,  and  had  him  jailed  until  he  
should
 pay the debt. The other servants were deeply  
distressed  when  they  saw  what  had  happened,  and  they  went  
to  their  master  and  told  him  the  whole  story.  He  accordingly  
sent
 for the man. ‘You   scoundrel!’   he   said   to   him; ‘I   
remitted  the  whole  of  your  debt  when  you  appealed  to  me;  
were  you  not  bound  to  show  your  fellow-servant  the  same    
pity  as  I  showed  to  you?’  And  so  angry  was  the  master  that    
he  condemned  the  man  to  torture  until  he  should  pay  the    
debt in full. And that is how my heavenly Father will deal with 
you, unless you each forgive your brother from your hearts. 
 
48 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
This,  too,  is  a  very  precious  parable.  ‘And  forgive  us  our 
transgressions  as  we  forgive  those  who  transgress  against  us,’ 
as Yohannan has given me the Lord’s Prayer in English for me  
to  use  in  the  lectures  every  day.  In  this  parable,  Jesus  states    
the  Law  of  what  we  may  call  Cause  and  Effect.  The  Hindus  
call  it ‘karma’.  Jesus  just  describes  karma  here;  the  Law  of   
Destiny.  That  means ‘whatever  you  sow,  so  shall  you  reap'; 
whatever  you  do  that’s what  will  happen  to  you.  It  is  telling  
you  that  there  is  an  account  to  be  settled.  The  ‘king’,  whom    
the servants in the parable call ‘master’ is the Lord of Life, the 
Father.  He  is  most  merciful.  The  servant  has  karma  -    an  
account  to  be  settled.  And  he  was  responsible  for  creating  it,   
by  the  way  he  lived.  He  realized  that  it  was  the  wrong  way;    
we  speak  about  what  you  call  ‘sin’,  which  is  contravention  of 
the  law.  Of  course,  under  the  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect,  you 
have to pay, but the Father, the ‘master’, is most merciful. The 
man knelt before Him and He forgave him everything.  
But  when  the  same  man  went  out  he  found  the
 other 
fellow owing  him  something.  Of  course  in  this  world,  day  and 
night,  we  owe  something  to  someone,  just  as  they  owe  us 
something -   good  or  bad.  He  grabbed  him  and  said,  ‘Now  pay 
me  what  you  owe!’  The parable  tells  us  that  the  Master  knows 
everything,  watches  everything.  In  another  passage,  Jesus  tells 
us  that  whatever  you  relieve  others  of,  it’s gone  and  whatever 
you  demand,  you  get.  So,  if  our  Lord  and  Master  sees  that  our 
behaviour  with  our  fellow  men  is  such  as  not  to  forgive  and 
forget,  how  can  we  dare  ask  Him  to  forgive  us?  He  forgives,  
but He watches our subsequent behaviour.  
I’ve read  this  parable  many  times,  and  have  tried  with  
deep meditation to enter into the meaning of it, the  meaning  of 
 
49 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
the  Mercy  of  God,  but  I  have  not  come  to  any  conclusion  yet. 
These  are  very,  very  deep  things  to  understand.  How  the  Law  
of  Destiny,  of  Cause  and  Effect,  and  the  Law  of  Mercy  work 
together    are    difficult    to    understand.    Jesus    gives    us 
independence  and  yet  he  states  the  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect 
very  clearly  ;  we  can  see  it  clearly  all  around  us  in  our  daily 
life. We can also see the working of the Law of Mercy. I think 
Jesus could have said more about this. 
 
 
  
50 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
  
51 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Labourers in the Vineyard 
 
THE LABOURERS IN THE VINEYARD  Matt. 20:1-16 
 
The   kingdom   of   heaven   is   like   this.   There   was   once   a   
landowner, who went out early one morning to hire labourers 
for  his  vineyard  ;  and  after  agreeing  to  pay  them  the  usual  
day’s  wage  he  sent  them  off  to  work.  Going  out  three  hours  
later  he  saw  more  men  standing  idle  in  the  marketplace.  ‘Go  
and  join  the  others  in  the  vineyard,’  he  said,  ‘and  I  will  pay  
you a fair wage;’ so off they went. At noon he went out again, 
and    at    three    in    the    afternoon    and    made    the    same     
arrangement  as  before.  An  hour  before  sunset  he  went  out  
and  found  another  group  standing  there;  so  he  said  to  them,  
‘Why are you standing about like this all day with nothing to 
do?’  ‘Because  no  one  has  hired  us,’  they  replied;  so  he  told  
them, ‘Go and join the others in the vineyard.’ When evening 
fell,  the  owner  of  the  vineyard  said  to  his  steward,  ‘Call  the  
labourers  and  give  them  their  pay,  beginning  with  those  who  
came  last  and  ending  with  the  first.’  Those  who  had  started  
work an hour before sunset came forward, and were paid the 
full day’s wage. When it came to the turn of the men who had 
come  first,  they  expected  something  extra,  but  were  paid  the  
same  amount  as  the  others.  As  they  took  it,  they  grumbled  at  
their  employer;  ‘These  late-comers  have  done  only  an  hour’s  
work,  yet  you  have  put  them  on  a  level  with  us,  who  have  
sweated  the  whole  day  long  in  the  blazing  sun!’  The  owner  
turned  to  one  of  them  and  said,  ‘My  friend,  I  am  not  being  
unfair  to  you.  You  agreed  on  the  usual  wage  for  the  day,  did  
you not? Take your pay and go home. I choose to pay the last 
man the same as you. Surely I am free to do what I like with 
my  own  money.  Why  be  jealous  because  I  am  kind?’  Thus   
will the last be first and the first last. 
52 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Now  this  parable  is  most  valuable  for  us,  for  all  of  us.  
This  is  what  I  call  Love.  I'll  not  say  again  the  Mercy  of  God.  
I’ll  say  the  Grace  of  God.  Is  that  synonymous?  Not  exactly.   
He  gave  certain  things  to  do  to  some  of  his  workers  and  told 
them how much they would have as their reward; the kingdom 
of  heaven.  Yes!  That’s the  kingdom  of  heaven.  The  others  
came  later.  He  didn’t  care what  they  had  been  doing  until  that 
time,  living  sinful  lives  or  anything.  They  are  workers  and   
they  will  enter  the  vineyard  of  life.  They  worked  properly.   
Less hours  than  the  first  ones,  but  more  than  those  who  came 
later.  They  worked  too.  Again,  he  didn’t  ask  them,  ‘What    
work have you been doing till now?’ At the end, when he gave 
to  the  last  group  the  same  as  he  gave  to  the  first,  there  were 
complaints.  But  he  said:  ‘Look  here!  How  much  did  I  tell  you 
you  would  have?  So  much.  Don’t  you have  it?  You  have  it. 
What  do  you  care  if  I'm  generous  and  gave  the  others  the    
same  as  I  gave  you?  I  didn’t  deduct  anything  from  your   
wages.’  So,  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  given  to  everyone,  no 
matter  what  time  they  realize  the  Truth.  I  can  use  the  church 
word  ‘repent’,  though  I  don’t  like  that  word.  I  call  it  ‘realizing 
the  Truth,’  or  ‘coming  to  one’s senses.’  No  matter  at  what   
time   in   your   life   you   find   the   Truth,   you   can   enter   the    
kingdom of heaven.  
This  again  is  something  I  don’t  understand  fully;  the   
Grace  and  the  Mercy  of  God.  On  the  one  hand  we  have  the 
Law,  the  iron,  strong  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect,  and  on  the  
other  hand  the  Mercy  and  Grace  of  God,  which  we  cannot 
dispute.  We  see  the  great  truth  before  us  day  and  night  and  I  
am  not  one  to  say  ‘Why  do  you  give  to  the  last  the  same  as   
you  gave  to  the  first,’  because  I  know  the Law of Love and 
  
53 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Compassion.  But  how  does  it  really  work?  The  Law  of  Cause 
and  Effect  resulting  in  the  Law  of  Mercy  and  Grace  is  very 
difficult   to   understand   now.   I’ll   be   happy   some   day   to 
understand it. Perhaps is refers to many lifetimes, but it is better 
for  us  to  understand  it  in  one  lifetime.  Even  if  in  one  lifetime 
you return from a prodigal life, you'll be favoured by the Mercy 
and  Grace  of  God  - the  ‘sinful’  with  the  good,  just  the  same.  
The good have their reward in their actions.  
Every  good  action  has  the  seed  of  its  reward  in  it  the 
moment  it  is  done.  And  every  evil  action  has  its ‘punishment’  
(I would rather say ‘consequence') at the very moment when it 
is  committed.  I  don’t believe  there  is  any  fellow  who  is  not 
suffering  for  doing  something  evil.  That  sufferer  may  not  be 
under  the  Grace  and  Mercy  of  God.  It  is  the  aim  of  our  
teaching to turn everyone back to the right way of life. What is 
the  difference  between  Mercy  and  Grace?  I  think  Mercy  is 
‘forgiving’.  Grace  is  ‘loving’.  That’s what  I  think.  We  depend  
on God’s  Mercy. Grace is His own affair - not ours! 
 
  
54 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
55 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Man With Two Sons 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE MAN WITH TWO SONS  Matt. 21:28-32 
 
What  do  you  think  about  this?  A  man  had  two  sons.  He  
went to the first, and said, ‘My boy, go and work today in the 
vineyard.’  ‘I  will,  sir’  the  boy  replied;  but  he  never  went.     
The father came to the second and said the same. ‘I will not,’ 
he  replied,  but  afterwards  he  changed  his  mind  and  went.  
Which  of  these  two  did  as  his  father  wished?  ‘The  second,’  
they  said.  Then  Jesus  answered,  I  tell  you  this:  tax-gatherers 
and  prostitutes  are  entering  the  kingdom  of  God  ahead  of   
you.  For  when  John  came  to  show  you  the  right  way  to  live,  
you  did  not  believe  him,  but  the  tax-gatherers  and  prostitutes  
did;  and  even  when  you  had  seen  that,  you  did  not  change  
your minds and believe him. 
  
56 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This was a whip for the Pharisees. There are people who at 
first  are  not  willing  to  do  something  -  to  do  the  Will  of  God. 
But  they  come  to  their  senses  and  say,  ‘Oh!  That’s the  Will  of 
God’.  And  they  do  it.  They  become  good.  Jesus  tells  us  that   
we  may  find  this  attitude  even  in  prostitutes  and  many  ‘sinful’ 
people,  who  do  the  Will  of  God  in  the  end.  But  those  who  
claim to be good - the priests and Pharisees of that time – don’t 
do the Will of God. They pretend to, and they should do it, but 
they  don’t  do  it.  So,  who  loves  Him  more?  The  ‘prostitutes’  
and the ‘tax-gatherers’. That’s why this is a very bitter whip for 
many, even now. 
 
  
57 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Lando wner’s Vineyard 
 
 
 
THE LANDOWNER’S VINEYARD  Matt. 21:33-43   
 
There  was  a  landowner  who  planted  a  vineyard:  he  put    
a  wall  round  it,  hewed  out  a  winepress,  and  built  a  watch-
tower;  then  he  let  it  out  to  vine-growers  and  went  abroad.  
When  the  vintage  season  approached,  he  sent  his  servants  to  
the  tenants  to  collect  the  produce  due  to  him.  But  they  took   
his  servants  and  thrashed  one,  murdered  another  and  stoned   
a  third.  Again, he  sent  other  servants,  this  time  a  larger  
number;  and  they  did  the  same  to  them.  At  last  he  sent  to   
them  his  son.  ‘They  will  respect  my  son,’  he  said.  But  when  
they  saw  the  son  the  tenants  said  to  one  another,  ‘This  is  the  
heir;  come  on,  let  us  kill  him,  and  get  his  inheritance.’  And  
they  took  him,  flung  him  out  of  the  vineyard,  and  murdered  
him.  When  the  owner  of  the  vineyard  comes,  how  do  you  
think  he  will  deal  with  those  tenants?  ‘He  will  bring  those   
bad   men   to   a   bad   end,’    they   answered,   ‘and   hand   the  
vineyard  over  to  other  tenants,  who  will  let  him  have  his   
share  of  the  crop  when  the  season  comes.’  Then  Jesus  said    
to them, ‘Have you never read in the scriptures:  
THE  STONE  WHICH  THE  BUILDERS  REJECTED  HAS 
BECOME   THE   MAIN   CORNER-STONE.   THIS   IS   THE 
LORD’S DOING, AND IT IS WONDERFUL IN OUR EYES.  
Therefore,  I  tell  you,  the  kingdom  of  God  will  be  taken  
away  from  you,  and  given  to  a  nation  that  yields  the  proper  
fruit.’  
  
58 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
The  ‘vineyard’ means  the  Plan  of  the  Infinite  Beingness 
regarding  the  world  and  life  as  a  phenomenon  in  it.  In  this 
parable,  we  are  told  that  the  landowner  planted  a  vineyard  and 
'put  walls  around  it’  (that  is,  created  the  human  bodies  in  flesh 
and bone). Each one of us is a vineyard. Then he gave it into the 
charge   of   certain   workers.   Maybe   the   workers   in   it   are 
elementals.  So,  when  he  the  master,  the ‘landowner’,  thought    
it proper, he sent certain of his servants - in his private service, 
not  the  workers  in  the  vineyard.  But  those  labourers  in  the 
vineyard   didn’t like   to   comply   with   the   wishes   of   the 
landowner,  so  they  did  what  they  pleased  in  the  vineyard.   
They  did  not  accept  that  they  had  killed  the  servants  which   
had  been  sent.  In  this  story  Jesus  meant  the  prophets  who   
came  and  had  been  slaughtered  by  the  Jewish  nation  from    
time to time.  
And  He  says  in  the  parable,  ‘Now  I'll  send  my  son.  Of 
course  they'll  respect  him.  He’s my  son.  He’s not  any  servant, 
not   a   prophet,   just   preaching.   He’s speaking   about   the    
kingdom  of  heaven.’  The  workers  understood  that  he  was  the 
heir  of  that  ‘property’ or  condition  -   Life,  all  the  phenomena    
of  life  in  the  world. ‘Let  us  kill  him  and  we'll  be  the  masters    
of  this  little  kingdom.’ But  the  parable  goes  on  to  ask,  when   
the  lord  himself  would  come,  what  would  he  do  to  those  evil 
people,  who  have  slaughtered  his  servants,  his  prophets  and 
even his son, Christ.  
  
59 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Wedding Feast 
 
 
 
THE WEDDING FEAST  Matt. 22:1-14  
 
The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  this.  There  was  a  king  
who prepared a feast for his son’s wedding; but when he sent 
his servants to summon the guests he had invited, they would 
not  come.  He  sent  others  again,  telling  them  to  say  to  the  
guests,  ‘See  now!  I  have  prepared  this  feast  for  you.  I  have  
had  my  bullocks  and  fatted  beasts  slaughtered;  everything  is  
ready;  come  to  the  wedding  at  once.9  But  they  took  no    no-
tice; one went off to his farm, another to his business, and the 
others  seized  the  servants,  attacked  them  brutally  and  killed  
them.  The  king  was  furious;  he  sent  troops  to  kill  those  
murderers  and  set  their  town  on  fire.  Then  he  said  to  his  
servants,  ‘The  wedding-feast  is  prepared;  but  the  guests  I  
invited  did  not  deserve  the  honour.  Go  out  to  the  main  thor-
oughfares,  and  invite  everyone  you  can  find  to  the  wedding.’  
The  servants  went  out  into  the  streets  and  collected  all  they  
could  find,  good  and  bad  alike.  So  the  hall  was  packed  with  
guests.  
When  the  king  came  in  to  see  the  company  at  table,  he  
observed  one  man  who  was  not  dressed  for  a  wedding.  ‘My  
friend/  said  the  king,  ‘how  do  you  come  to  be  here  without 
your  wedding  clothes?’  He  had  nothing  to  say.  The  king     
then  said  to  his  attendants,  ‘Bind  him  hand  and  foot;  turn   
him  out  into  the  dark,  the  place  of  wailing  and  grinding  of  
teeth.’ For many are invited, few are chosen.  
 
  
60 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
(Alternative version)  Luke 14:16-24  
 
A  man  was  giving  a  big  dinner-party  and  had  sent  out  
many  invitations.  At  dinner-time  he  sent  his  servant  with  a  
message  for  his  guests,  ‘Please  come,  everything  is  now  
ready.’  They  began  one  and  all  to  excuse  themselves.  The  
first  said,  ‘I  have  bought  a  piece  of  land,  and  1  must  go  and  
look  over  it;  please  accept  my  apologies.’  The  second  said,  ‘I  
have  bought  five  yoke  of  oxen,  and  I  am  on  my  way  to  try  
them out; please accept my apologies.’ The next said, ‘I have 
just  got  married  and  for  that  reason  I  cannot  come.’  When   
the  servant  came  back  he  reported  to  his  master.  The  master  
of the house was angry and said to him, ‘Go out quickly into 
the  streets  and  alleys  of  the  town,  and  bring  in  the  poor,  the  
crippled,  the  blind,  and  the  lame.’  The  servant  said,  ‘Sir,    
your  orders  have  been  carried  out  and  there  is  still  room.’   
The master replied, ‘Go out onto the highways and along the 
hedgerows  and  make  them  come  in;  I  want  my  house  to  be  
full.  I  tell  you  not  one  of  those  who  were  invited  shall  taste   
my banquet.’  
 
 
  
61 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
The  wedding  feast  (or  ‘the  big  dinner-party’)  here  means 
‘Creation’.
 This is the Creation through His Son -  His projection 
as the Logos, the Expression of God,
 ‘through whom everything 
was made’. What is the Logos? Truth! ‘I am the Way. I am the 
Life. I am the Truth,’ He said. Creation is the noetic world, the 
psychic world and the material world. It was created for a pur-
pose.  That’s the  meaning  of  ‘feast’.  He  invited  people  to  the 
feast,  but  they  just  treated  the  feast,  Creation,  the  kingdom  of 
heaven,  life  in  the  material  and  the  other  two  worlds  as  some-
thing  to  play  with.  And  they  didn’t   accept  his  invitation.  This 
parable is specially directed at the Jews, God’s selected people. 
But those people had got stuck in their own way of living in the 
material  world.  In  St  Luke’s  version  of  the  parable,  each  one 
gave an excuse. ‘I’ve bought ten oxen and I have to go and look 
after them.’ That one’s saying, ‘I don’t
 care about your kingdom 
of heaven or the feast.
 
I
 
only care about what interests me. I don’t 
have
 time for your feast.’ Another said, ‘I’ve been married to a 
woman.
 I’ve got so many worries. I don’t  care about your feast.’ 
They were all giving excuses according to their material inter-
ests.  
What’s the  ‘invitation’  then?  To  live  properly  in  accor-
dance  with  the  joy  of  God.  Live  with  love  and  not  in  a  world   
of  separation.  And  what  did  the  Jews  do  to  their  prophets?  
They  killed  most  of  the  prophets,  those  servants  of  God.  But  
the feast - Creation -  goes on. It is going on.  
The  king  was  angry.  He  sent  his  troops,  the  Archangels    
in  charge  of  the  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect  (‘whatever  you  sow, 
so  shall  you  reap’),  to  punish  those  murderers.  The  Army  of 
God  is  the  Law  of  Goodness  in  Creation.  I  think  Jesus  put  it 
very well. 
  
62 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
So the king sent a message to his servants, that is to the an-
gels  and  Archangels,  ‘Bring  everyone  in  to  my  feast.  Go  out 
into the streets and roads;’ that means, ‘everywhere’ and ‘don’t 
confine yourself only to the Jewish nation. Go into the world, to 
all  nations.’ Didn’t Jesus  send  his  disciples  to  go  all  over  the 
world  and  call  people  to  the  kingdom  of  heaven?  The  Jews 
weren’t interested in Jesus’ message. They had their own mate-
rial  interests  and  traditions.  But  that’s  not  the  aim  of  life.  The 
aim of life is the kingdom of heaven within us and the kingdom 
of heaven everywhere.  
So guests began to arrive. But to take part in the feast you 
must have the right clothes on. That means ‘purity of the noetic 
and  psychic  bodies;  of  the  mind  and  the  emotions.’  Those  are 
the bodies who deserve to take part in the feast, to express love, 
according to the Will of God.
 When the ‘king’ came (that means 
the  Law  of  Judgement),  he  found  one  there  who  didn’t  have 
wedding clothes on. This was one of the offspring of Lucifer, or 
what you call the devil. ‘How did you get here?’ said the king, 
'It  is  not  your  place.  You  don’t have  the  right  clothes  for  my 
feast.’  He  ordered  his  servants,  the  Archangels,  to  cast  them 
into ‘darkness’, which means ignorance, where there is ‘wailing 
and grinding of teeth’. What does this mean? Into incarnation in 
material  life.  Don’t   we  find  that  sort  of  despair  in  the  material 
world?  It’s  not  only  the  so-called  devil  who  had  to  be  cast  out 
into  the  darkness,  but  also  those  devilish  humans,  who  have  to 
reincarnate to pay their debt. Jesus speaks
 of ‘wailing and grind-
ing  of  teeth’,  rather  than  saying  ‘despair’.  Others  may  call  it 
‘hell’.  The  hell  is  man  on  the  material  plane  as  well  as  on  the 
psychic and lower noetic planes. The material plane has its hells 
too. And paradises. And the feast. And the kingdom  of  heaven.  
  
63 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Fig Tree 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE FIG-TREE  Matt. 24:32-35  
 
Learn  a  lesson  from  the  fig-tree.  When  its  tender  shoots  
appear  and  are  breaking  into  leaf  you  know  that  summer  is  
near. In the same way, when you see all these things, you may 
know that the end is near, at the very door. I tell you this: the 
present generation will live to see it all. Heaven and earth will 
pass away: my words will never pass away. 
 
  
64 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
This  is  an  expression  of  the  Law.  Fig  trees  drop  their 
leaves  in  the  winter,  so  when  you  see  the  new  leaves  coming, 
you know that summer is not far away. That’s the pre-destined 
Law,  the  Law  of  Growing  to  which  we  all  have  to  conform. 
You  have  to follow  events;  each  phenomenon  happens  at  the 
right time for it. This is the Law of Destiny. But this has noth-
ing  to  do  with  Hindu  karma.  Destiny  and  pre-destined  events 
mean  that  the  cycle  of  growth  will  occur,  whether  you  want  it  
to or not. There has to be birth - the new leaves - and there has 
to  be  growth  and  passing  over.  Eventually  the  leaves  fall   
down,  when  winter  approaches.  That  is  when  old  age  comes. 
The  present  generation  cannot  escape  anything  of  this  inevita-
ble  cycle.  Nobody  can  say  that  there  will  not  be  an  event  we 
call ‘death’. Everything is subject to this cycle of birth, growth 
and  death,  or  change,  but  not  Jesus'  words.  They  are  not  sub-
ject to this Law. His message is eternal.  
But,  if  I'm  not  mistaken,  ‘pre-destined’  does  not  mean   
that  our  ability  to  express  ourselves  in  this  or  that  way  is  re-
moved from us. ‘Summer’  means life to be expressed. What is 
pre-destined  is  simply  the  cycle  of  events,  birth,  growing    ev-
ery  hour,  every  day,  every  year  and  passing  over.  But  life  – 
that’s our own.  
 
  
65 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Trusty Servant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE TRUSTY SERVANT  Matt. 24: 45-51  
 
Hold  yourselves  ready,  therefore,  because  the  Son  of  
Man  will  come  at  the  time  you  least  expect  him.  Who  is  the  
trusty  servant,  the  sensible  man  charged  by  his  master  to  
manage his  household  staff  and  issue  their  rations  at  the  
proper  time?  Happy  that  servant  who  is  found  at  his  task  
when  his  master  comes!  I  tell  you  this:  he  will  be  put  in  
charge of all his master’s property. But if he is a bad servant 
and  says  to  himself,  ‘The master  is  a  long  time  coming,’  and 
begins to bully the other servants and to eat and drink with his 
drunken  friends,  then  the  master  will  arrive  on  a  day  that  
servant  does  not  expect,  at  a  time  he  does  not  know,  and  will  
cut  him  in  pieces.  Thus  he  will  find  his  place  among  the  hy-
pocrites, where there is wailing and grinding of teeth. 
 
  
66 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  is  a  most  encouraging  parable.  He  gave  his  servant  - 
each  human  being  coming  to  the  material  plane  to  serve  His 
Law -  He  gave  him  His  property.  What  is  that  property?  It  is 
Mind  as  matter,  Mind  as  emotion  and  Mind  as  reason  with 
which  to  use  the  other  two.  Now,  what  does  the  bad  servant  
do?  He  fights  his  fellow  men,  kills  them,  steals  from  them.  
This is what is happening now on the planet.  
But  the  Law  and  the  Lord  are  observing  what  is  being 
done.  Sooner  or  later  each  of  these  bad  servants  will  pass  over 
and  see  the  result.  He  won’t   stay  on  the  material  plane,  living 
his  non-essential  life  forever.  And  when  there  is  an  account  he 
will  be  cast  away  to  where  there  is  ‘wailing  and  grinding  of 
teeth’  -    incarnation  again  on  the  material  plane  -  until  he    
learns his lessons.  
But what is promising is that the man who is faithful with 
what  his  master  gives  him  - the  material  body  and  the  other 
bodies  and  all  God’s  other  gifts  - he  will  be  trusted  with  ev-
erything. ‘All  his  master’s  property’  can  only  mean  the  uni-
verses,  the  whole  of  Creation!  This  parable  is  an  extension  of 
the  Parable  of  the  Talents.  The  trusty  servant  makes  good  use  
of his life and his body, using Mind.   
67 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Wise and Foolish Virgins 
 
 
 
 
 
THE WISE AND FOOLISH VIRGINS  Matt. 25:1-13 
 
When that day comes, the kingdom of heaven will be like 
this. There were ten girls, who took their lamps and went out 
to  meet  the  bridegroom.  Five  of  them  were  foolish  and  five  
prudent; when the foolish ones took their lamps, they took no 
oil  with  them,  but  the  others  took  flasks  of  oil  with  their  
lamps.  As  the  bridegroom  was  late  in  coming,  they  all  dozed  
off  to  sleep.  But  at  midnight  a  cry  was  heard:  ‘Here  is  the  
bridegroom! Come out to meet him.’ With that all the girls got 
up  and  trimmed  their  lamps.  The  foolish  said  to  the  prudent,  
‘Our lamps are going out; give us some of your oil.’ ‘No,’ they 
said;  ‘there  will  never  be  enough  for  us  both.  You  had  better  
go to the shop and buy some for yourselves.’ While they were 
away  the  bridegroom  arrived;  those  who  were  ready  went  in  
with him to the wedding; and the door was shut. And then the 
other five came back. ‘Sir, Sir,’ they cried, ‘open the door for 
us.’  But  he  answered,  ‘I  declare,  I  do  not  know  you.’  Keep  
awake then; for you never know the day or the hour.   
  
68 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
Each  group  of  five  girls  with  their  five  lamps  represents 
the  present-day  personality  with  its  five  senses.  One  lot  uses 
their  five  senses  with  reason;  that’s the  ‘oil’.  It  gives  light.    
And  the  others?  They  don’t  care  about  what  they  see  or  they 
taste,  what  they  eat  or  what  they  do.  They  don’t   take  any   no-
tice  of  what  their  senses  tell  them.  So  what  happens  to  those 
who  neglect  or  misuse  their  Divine  gifts,  their  five  senses? 
Some  are  using  them  wisely,  some  in  a  foolish  way.  The  wise 
have  light;  right  thought,  right  emotions.  These  thoughts  and 
emotions are the light shining.  
Who  are  they  waiting  for?  The ‘coming  of  the  bride 
groom’  is  the  awakening  of  the  Soul-Ego  as  God.  Nobody 
knows  the  hour.  Sooner  or  later  that  will  come,  in  the  passing 
over, or the second, or even the third death, as we call it. 
Suppose you have a personality now who is making very, 
very  bad  use  of  the  five  senses.  How  will  that  personality  ad-
vance  to  realize  the  coming  of  the  Lord?  And  who  is  the    
Lord?  Who  is  the  bridegroom?  The  Soul-Ego,  the  realization
   
of God-being in Theosis. One day the present-day  personali-
ty will  gaze  at  this  event  without  being  ready,  not  having  any 
‘oil’ in its ‘lamps’. So how can that personality know the Bride-
groom,  or  acknowledge  the  Soul-Ego  as  God  within  us  when 
nobody  knows  when  it  will  happen?  Remember,  the  ‘oil’  is 
reason;  reason  as  thought;  reason  in  emotions;  and  reason  in 
dealing  with  the  material  plane,  using  the  five  senses  wisely. 
That is what gives light. 
 
  
69 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Talents 
 
THE TALENTS  Matt. 25:14-30  
 
The kingdom of heaven is like a man going abroad, who 
called  his  servants  and  put  his  capital  in  their  hands;  to  one      
he  gave  five  bags  of  gold,  to  another  two,  to  another  one,      
each  according  to  his  capacity.  Then  he  left  the  country.         
The  man  who  had  the  five  bags  went  at  once  and  employed  
them  in  business,  and  made  a  profit  of  five  bags,  and  the       
man  who  had  the  two  bags  made  two.  But  the  man  who  had  
been  given  one  bag  of  gold  went  off  and  dug  a  hole  in  the  
ground,  and  hid  his  master’s  money.  A  long  time  afterwards  
their  master  returned,  and  proceeded  to  settle  accounts  with  
them.  The  man  who  had  been  given  the  five  bags  of  gold     
came  and  produced  the  five  he  had  made:  ‘Master,’  he  said,  
‘you  left  five  bags  with  me;  look,  I  have  made  five  more.’   
‘Well  done,  my  good  and  trusty  servant!’  said  the  master.    
‘You  have  proved  trustworthy  in  a  small  way;  I  will  now  put  
you   in   charge   of   something   big.   Come   and   share   your   
master’s delight.’ The man with two bags then came and said:     
‘Master,  you  left  two  bags  with  me;  look,  I  have  made  two  
more.’  ‘Well  done,  my  good  and  trusty  servant!’  said  the  
master.  ‘You  have  proved  trustworthy  in  a  small  way;  I  will  
now  put  you  in  charge  of  something  big.  Come  and  share     
your  master’s  delight.’  Then  the  man  who  had  been  given      
one  bag  came  and  said,  ‘Master,  I  know  you  to  be  a  hard      
man:  you  reap  where  you  have  not  sown,  you  gather  where     
you  have  not  scattered;  so  I  was  afraid,  and  I  went  and  hid     
your  gold  in  the  ground.  Here  it  is  - you  have  what  belongs       
to  you.’  ‘You  lazy  rascal!’  said  the  master.  ‘You  knew  that         
I  reap  where  I  have  not  sown,  and  gather  where  I  have  not  
scattered?  Then you ought  to have  put my money on deposit,  
  
70 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
and on my return I should have got it back with interest. Take 
the bag of gold from him and give it to the one with ten bags. 
For  the  man  who  has  will  always  be  given  more,  till  he  has  
enough  and  to  spare;  and  the  man  who  has  not  will  for-feit 
even what he has. Fling the useless servant out into the dark, 
the place of wailing and grinding of teeth!’   
   
71 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
In  the  Greek  and  the  older  English  version,  the  ‘bags  of  
gold’  were  known  as ‘talents’  -   the  talent  was  a  large  Roman  
measure  of  silver.  Never  mind.  The  five  ‘bags  of  gold’  are     
the  material  body,  the  etheric  double  of  the  material  body,  the  
psychic body with its etheric double and the noetic body - five 
in  all.  The  noetic  body  does  not  have  an  etheric  double  as    
such.  Mind  is  Mind  and  we  cannot  distinguish  Mind  as  an  
etheric  double  of  the  noetic  (mind)  body.  It  is  simply  Mind.  
Mind   is   concrete   or   abstract,   concrete   or   formless   super-
substance. Can you call that an etheric double?  
The  first  man  made  these  five  into  ten.  That  means  de-
veloping  them  in  their  nature  in  higher  planes  beyond  the  uni-
verses.  We  know  of  seven  heavens,  but  can  only  experience  
four  of  them  and  half  of  the  fifth,  in  what  we  call  the  noetic  
world.  
‘Master’s delight’.  What  is  the  ‘master’s delight’?  There   
is  a  difference,  now,  between  the  master’s delight  or  joy,  and  
our  joy.  Our  joy  is  in  obtaining  this  or  that  and  having  what     
we  call  self-satisfaction.  But  what  is  our  master’s joy?  The  
master’s joy  is  creating  universes.  We  have  to  learn  what  our  
master’s delight or joy really is.  
To the next man he gave two talents; that means a materi-
al body and certain emotions - a psychic body. He had worked 
on  them  during  his  life  and  when  the  master  came  he  said  to  
him,  ‘Sir,  you  have  given  me  two  talents;  here  are  four.’  That 
means,  you  have  given  me  a  material  body  and  an  emotional  
body,  and  I  have  also  made  a  mind  body,  by  working  with   
these  two  - the  material  body  and  emotional  body.  I  made  a  
complete noetic body - not only the lower mind body, but even 
a higher mind body as well.  
72 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Now,  let  us  look  carefully  at  the  fellow  who  got  the  two  
talents  and  made  them  four.  That  is  of  especial  interest  for  us.  
Given  a  material  body  and  an  emotional  body,  we  develop  the  
two  bodies  into  mind,  thought.  So  we  make  a  mind body  and     
a causal body (let us call it that), a higher mental body. 
What  did  the  master  say  to  that  fellow?  ‘Well  done,  you  
faithful  worker.  You  have  been  faithful  in  little  things  and  I’ll 
entrust  you  with  more.’  Master  of  more!  Now  it  says  in  St  
Luke’s  version  of  the  parable  (Luke  19:  20),  that  the  one  who  
doubled  his  talents,  was  made  the  governor  of  so  many  cities.  
Now  what  is  the  difference  between  a  talent  and  a  city?  The   
one who made the two talents four, he made him master of four 
cities.  Don’t  imagine  Christ  is  talking  nonsense,  or  exag-
gerating things. No. We have been given a material body and a 
psychic  body  and  we  build  our  mind  body,  and  our  causal   
body, or reason.  
This  lifts  us  up  - where?  From  subconsciousness  and    
even    consciousness    to   our   self-consciousness    and    Self- 
Superconsciousness.   That   means   Self-Realization,   knowing    
that  we  are  gods.  What  did  the  master  say  to  that  servant?  
‘Enter  into  the  joy  of  your  master.’  He  didn’t say,  ‘Feel  your  
joy,’  a  human  joy.  He  said  the  ‘joy  of  our  master’.  This  is  the  
point  we  should  observe.  What  is  the  joy  of  our  master  - of    
the Infinite Beingness?  Creation!  That is the joy of our master.  
The  ‘one  bag  of  gold’  is  the  material  body.  The  master  
gave  to  the  last  fellow  one  talent.  It  says  in  the  parable  that  
when  the  time  came  to  get  an  account,  the  master  asked  the    
one  to  whom  he  gave  the  one  talent,  ‘What  have  you  done    
with  that  talent?’  He  answered,  ‘Look  here,  I  have  hidden  it  in  
the earth, because I knew you were coming.  You  gave me one  
 
73 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
talent.   Here!   Have  it  back.’  And  the  lord  said,  ‘No.  You  
should  have  put  it  somewhere  to  get  a  profit  out  of  it.  Back  
again  to  the  prison,’  (that  means  reincarnation)  ‘to  learn  your  
lesson.’ I have given you a body and you just return to mother-
earth  a  body  and  nothing  more  than  that,  and  you  remain  ex-
actly what you were without any ‘profit’. ‘Take him out of the 
body  I  gave  him,’  says  the  master,  the  lord,  ‘He  has  just   hid-
den it in the earth, in matter; made nothing of it.’ So, take him 
out  of  his  material  body  and  do  what  with  him?  Reincarnate  
him  in  the  dark,  the  material  world.  Darkness  is  ignorance,  is     
it not? This is one of the warning parables.  
To  us  the  Parable  of  the  Talents  is  very,  very  clear.  But  
this  is  a  parable  for  which  even  dignitaries  of  the  church,  of  
both  Roman  Catholic  and  Greek  Orthodox  churches,  cannot  
give  an  explanation.  I  have  spoken  with  eminent  men,  even  
Cardinals. But we can give an explanation.  
So  the  Infinite  Beingness  is  entrusting  his  faithful  ser-
vants  with,  yes,  joy,  His  own  joy.  Everyone  should  reach  his  
own  conclusions  about  that.  This  is  a  parable  which  reveals  
much  of  the  truth  about  Creation  and  the  place  of  a  man  with  
his  bodies  in  God’s  Creation.  What  is  Creation?  Some  of  the  
answer  can  be  understood  from  the  Parable  of    the  Prodigal  
Son.  
74 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
75 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Sheep and the Goats 
 
THE SHEEP AND THE GOATS  Matt. 25:31-46  
 
When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the an-
gels  with  him,  he  will  sit  in  state  on  his  throne,  with  all  the  
nations  gathered  before  him.  He  will  separate  men  into  two  
groups,  as  a  shepherd  separates  the  sheep  from  the  goats,    
and  he  will  place  the  sheep  on  his  right  hand  and  the  goats   
on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right hand, 
‘You  have  my  Father’s blessing;  come,  enter  and  possess      
the kingdom that has been ready for you since the world was 
made.  For  when  I  was  hungry,  you  gave  me  food;  when  I    
was  thirsty,  you  gave  me  drink;  when  I  was  a  stranger  you  
took  me  into  your  home,  when  naked  you  clothed  me;  when     
I  was  ill  you  came  to  my  help,  when  in  prison  you  visited    
me.’  Then  the  righteous  will  reply,  ‘Lord,  when  was  it  that    
we  saw  you  hungry and  fed  you,  or  thirsty  and  gave  you   
drink,  a  stranger  and  took  you  home,  or  naked  and  clothed  
you?  When  did  we  see  you  ill  or  in  prison,  and  come  to  visit  
you?’ And the king will answer, ‘I tell you this: anything you 
did  for  one  of  these  my  brothers  here,  however,  humble,  you  
did  for  me.’  Then  he  will  say  to  those  on  his  left  hand,  ‘The  
curse is upon you; go from my sight to the eternal fire that is 
ready  for  the  devil  and  his  angels.  For  when  I  was  hungry   
you  gave  me  nothing  to  eat,  when  thirsty  nothing  to  drink;  
when  I  was  a  stranger  you  gave  me  no  home,  when  naked   
you  did  not  clothe  me;  when  I  was  ill  and  in  prison  you  did  
not  come  to  my  help.’  And  they  too  will  reply,  ‘Lord,  when  
was  it  that  we  saw  you  hungry  or  thirsty  or  a  stranger  or  
naked  or  ill  or  in  prison  and  did  nothing  for  you?’  And  he   
will answer,  ‘I tell you this:  anything you did not do for one 
 
76 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
of  these,  however  humble,  you  did  not  do  for  me.’ And  they 
will  go  away  to  eternal  punishment,  but  the  righteous  will  
enter eternal life. 
 
 
 
  
77 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Now,  what  is  it  that  we  believe?  That  Christ,  Jesus  the  
Christ,  is  God,  the  Logos,  or  Absolute  Beingness  in  express-
ion. And it is Jesus who is telling this parable. Yohanan says of 
Christ  at  the  beginning  of  his  Gospel  that  He  is  the  light     
which  lights  every  man  that  comes  into  the  world.  But  the  
Christ  is  not  just  a  person  -   Joshua  or  Jesus.  It  is  a  Principle,   
the Principle of Life, giving us Self-awareness.  
At  the  moment  we  pass  over  (into  the  psychic  world),  we  
see  the  truth  and  the  reality.  We  see  the  Lord,  the  Master.     
That  is  when  the  good  have  what  we  call    
-   feeling  one  with  Christ.  He  says ‘All  of  you  are  me!’  That’s 
what  we  call  ‘at-one-ment’  with  the  Logos.  When  you  reach  
that  stage,  you  still  have  your  Ego,  but  you  are  as  He  is.  And  
He’s you.  That  means  union.  So  the  righteous  realize  that  
whatever  they  have  done  to  anyone  else,  they  have  done  it  to  
Christ.  
The  other  ones  were  not  cursed  by  Christ,  by  the  Logos.  
The  were  already  under  the  curse  of  separation.  What  they   
have not done to their brothers, they have not done to the king. 
Then He sends them to the fire.  
Now, this is external fire. That means matter. Each atom is 
built  of  fire,  isn’t  it?  Matter  is  external  fire,  because  fire  in  
reality   is   not   something   harmful.   Christ   separates   internal      
from  external  fire.  Inner  fire  is  Mind  and,  as  we  have  said,  
matter  itself  is  solid  Mind.  The  external  fire  has  been  prepared  
for ‘the  devil  and  his  followers.’  That  means  those  who  are  
under  the  Law  of  Separation  and  who  feel  they  are  different  
from  everybody  else.  So  the  Logos  didn’t  curse  them;  they   
were already under the curse - the Law of Separation.  
In this parable,  Jesus  is telling us that we are all each-  
78 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
other.  Of  course,   this  is  how  the  Archangels  experience    at-
one-ness,  one  with  all  and  all  with  one.  But  human  beings  do  
not  feel  it  because  we  are  in  the  world  of  separation.  This  is   
one  of  the  best  parables.  Although  we  are  separate  Egos  and  
each  of  us  has  our  I-ness,  this  parable  tells  us  that  we  are  He.  
We  are Life.  As  long  as  you  don’t  realize  that,  you  don’t      
have   at-one-ment   with   Christ.   When   you   do   understand,       
you'll  see  that  whatever  you  do  to  others,  you  do  to  yourself   
and to Him.  
79 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Growing Seed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE GROWING SEED  Mark 4:26-29  
 
The kingdom of God is like this. A man scatters seed on 
the land; he goes to bed at night and gets up in the morning, 
the  seed  sprouts  and  grows  -   how,  he  does  not  know.  The  
ground produces a crop by itself, first the blade, then the ear, 
then  the  full-grown  corn  in  the  ear;  but  as  soon  as  the  crop    
is  ripe,  he  sets  to  work  with  the  sickle,  because  harvest-time 
has come.  
80 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
This  is  like  the  Parable  of  the  Fig-Tree.  The  kingdom  of  
heaven  on  earth  is  changing  and  ripening,  whether  we  want  it  
to  or  not.  We  are  under  the  Divine  Plan.  That  means  pregnan-
cy,  birth,  growing,  growing,  growing,  whether  we  understand    
it  or  not,  or  are  fast  asleep,  we  are  growing.  We  are  under  the  
Law  of  Life.  So  one  day  there  is  fruit  from  the  seed  that  has  
been sown. And what is that? Mastery of Mind.  
This  parable  is  about  passing  over  or  ‘death’.  It’s about 
realizing  the  cycle  of  possibilities  for  each  human  being.  It  is  
something  which  will  happen  and  cannot  be  avoided.  It  de-
scribes  the  work  of  the  Lord  Himself  and  of  the  Archangels  of  
the elements in producing the phenomena of life.  
The  parable  is  also  about  cause  and  effect,  or  karma.  ‘A 
man scatters his seed on the land.’ He does things: good things 
and bad things, but he isn’t always aware of the consequences. 
When  it  is  time  for  him  to  understand  and  reap  the  harvest,  he  
sees the results. This is when he understands the Law of Cause 
and  Effect.  The  parable  concerns  the  mastery  of  Mind.  The  
Law  of  Cause  and  Effect  is  the  basis  of  the  Law  of  Life.  So,  
what’s the  Law  of  Life?  What  are  you  living  in  the  material  
world for? Isn’t  it just to master Mind?  
This  parable,  then,  works  at  two  levels.  Mastery  of  Mind  
increases  with  each  incarnation  (each  ‘harvest’).  Full  mastery  
of Mind  is  achieved  when  our  cycle  of  incarnations  is  com-
plete.  
81 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Two Debtors 
 
THE TWO DEBTORS  Luke 7: 39-50  
 
One  of  the  Pharisees  invited  him  to  dinner;  he  went  to  
the  Pharisee’s  house  and  took  his  place  at  table.  A  woman  
who  was  living  an  immoral  life  in  the  town  had  learned  that  
Jesus  was  dining  at  the  Pharisee’s  house  and  had  brought   
oil  of  myrrh  in  a  small  flask.  She  took  her  place  behind  him,  
by  his  feet,  weeping.  His  feet  were  wetted  with  her  tears  and  
she  wiped  them  with  her  hair,  kissing  them  and  anointing  
them  with  the  myrrh.  When  his  host  the  Pharisee  saw  this,   
he  said  to  himself,  ‘If  this  fellow  were  a  real  prophet,  he  
would  know  who  this  woman  is  that  touches  him,  and  what  
sort  of  woman  she  is,  a  sinner.’  Jesus  took  him  up  and  said,  
‘Simon,  I  have  something  to  say  to  you.’  ‘Speak  on,  Master,’  
said he. ‘Two men were in debt to a money-lender: one owed 
him five hundred silver pieces, the other fifty. As neither had 
anything  to  pay  with  he  let  them  both  off.  Now,  which  will  
love  him  most?’  Simon  replied,  ‘I  should  think  the  one  that  
was  let  off  most.’  ‘You  are  right,’  said  Jesus.  Then  turning    
to  the  woman,  he  said  to  Simon,  ‘You  see  this  woman?  I  
came  to  your  house:  you  provided  no  water  for  my  feet;  but  
this  woman  has  made  my  feet  wet  with  her  tears  and  wiped  
them  with  her  hair.  You  gave  me  no  kiss;  but  she  has  been  
kissing  my  feet  ever  since  I  came  in.  You  did  not  anoint  my  
head  with  oil;  but  she  has  anointed  my  feet  with  myrrh.  And  
so,  I  tell  you,  her  great  love  proves  that  her  many  sins have 
been  forgiven;  where  little  has  been  forgiven,  little  love  is  
shown.’  Then  he  said  to  her,  ‘Your  sins  are  forgiven.’  The  
other  guests  began  to  ask  themselves,  ‘Who  is  this,  that  he  
can  forgive  sins?’  But  he  said  to  the  woman,  ‘Your  faith  has  
saved you; go in peace.’  
82 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Now,   if   you   remember,   in   a   previous   parable,   Jesus  
speaks  of  the  reward  people  are  having  for  different  hours  of  
work -   the  Parable  of  the  Workers  in  the  Vineyard.  Some  
worked  so  many  hours,  and  others  fewer  hours  and  yet  others  
fewer hours still, and he gave the same to all of them. The first 
ones  complained  and  said,  ‘We  thought  he’d  give  us  more.’  In 
the forgiveness of sins, though, you don’t usually make a com-
plaint  because  you’re  forgiven,  even  though  you  only  asked  at  
the  last  moment!  Once  you  have  asked  with  all  your  heart,  
which  means  real  repentance,  real  change  of  mind  and  behav-
iour,  you’ve  repaid  your  debt.  If  you’re  forgiven  for  some  
transgression  earlier  than  one  who  ‘owes  more’ (which  means  
unwilling to  understand  his  lesson),  what’s  there  to  complain  
about?  What’s  to  be  forgiven  is  the  debt. When  it’s  forgiven  is  
not our business.  
You owe that much, so much. That means: the lesson you 
have  to  learn.  He  asks,  who  would  love  the  master  more?  The  
one who is forgiven more, who is more indebted. The two par-
ables  are  the  same  from  two  different  points  of  view.  He  is  
saying  that  it  is  not  the  amount  which  should  be  taken  into  
consideration,  but  simply  to  learn  the  lesson.  And  what  is  the  
lesson?  We  have  transgressed  against  a  Law,  so  that  state  of  
things  must  not  last  for  long.  There  must  be  balance  and  har-
mony.  This  is  what  counts,  to  bring  back  harmony.  We  learn  
our  lesson  when  we  realize  we  are  indebted  and  are  willing  to  
pay.  And  when  we  are  forgiven  it  is  Absolute  Beingness  who  
decides  how  much  he  will  free  us  from  owing.  That’s  the  Law  
of  Mercy,  which  is  so  mysterious  and  which  we  really  don’t 
understand.  
Let me give you another example. Say you are the tenant       
  
83 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
of  a  vast  - a  very  big  field  and  you  sow  weeds  in  the  field  in  
stead  of  wheat.  And  next  door  to  you  there  is  a  man  with  a   
very  little  field,  who  sows  the  same  weeds.  You  see  them  all  
growing at the same rate - in the big field and in the little field. 
And  the  owner  of  the  land  hears  about  it  and  he  comes  and  
says,  ‘Wait!  What  are  you  doing?  What  you  have  sown  is  not  
good  quality  seed.  See  what  you  have  done!’  So  the  owner   
tells you both, ‘All right, I want these fields cleared. I  entrust-
ed the big field to you and the little field to you. Now start up-
rooting  your  weeds.’    Of   course  the  man  with  the  little  field 
will  uproot  the  weeds  at  the  same  rate  as  you  with  your  big  
field.  So the same amount of weeds will be  uprooted by each 
of  you.    Now  the  owner,  seeing  the  quantity  of  weeds  still  to   
be  uprooted  in  your  very,    very  big  field,  comes  and  brings  
some  of  his  servants  to  help  you,  because  you’ve  got  fifteen  
times  as  many  weeds  as  the  man  with  the  little  field.  In  the   
end,  both  fields  are  cleared  and  all  right  to  sow  good  seed  in.  
And  if  the  man  with  the  little  field  complains  and  says,  ‘Hey!  
Look  here!  Those  servants  you  sent  to  help  him,  why  didn’t  
they  help  me  too?’  The  owner  will  say,  ‘What’s  that  to  you?  
Didn’t  he  uproot  just  the  same  amount  of  weeds  as  you  did?  
That  means  he  got  the  same  lesson  you  did  -   that  you  should  
not grow weeds.’ 
That’s  all.  That’s  how  I  see  Divine  Mercy.   In  one    para-
ble  He  says  it  to  us  in  terms  of  reward,  and  now  in  this  one  in  
the form of forgiveness of transgressions.  
From  the  human  point  of  view,  you  may  just  complain,  
but  from  the  Divine  point  of  view  it  is  another  matter.  In  the  
Law  of  ‘Whatever  you  sow,  so  shall  you  reap,’    there  is   also 
the Law of Divine Mercy. I see it around me all the time. So,  
 
84 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
what  really  counts  is  not  the  amount  of  the  debt,  but  just  the  
recognition of having a debt to pay.  
Now,  I  discussed  with  a  clergyman  the  question  of  con-
fession.  And  I  told  this  fellow  that  two  bandits  were  crucified  
with  Jesus.  One  of  these  criminals,  we  might  call  him,  started  
just  playing  with  Jesus,  saying;  ‘You  say  you’re  the  son  of  
God’  (which  means  he  knew  what  Christ  was  teaching).  ‘So  
why don’t you come down from the cross to save yourself and 
save  us  too?’  He  didn’t  understand  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  
or the Law. The other fellow, who maybe had attended some of 
Jesus’  sermons,   had   a  fight  going    on  in  him.   A  fight    be-
tween  good  and  evil.  He  felt  the  stings  of  conscience.  ‘What  
have  I  done?’  He  hadn’t  been  able  to  give  it  up,  out  of  habit  
and because of the way he was living. But all the time he real-
ized  within  himself  that  he  was  committing  what  we  call  a  
crime, a sin, a transgression, whatever you like.  
Yet  we  find  Jesus  crucified  with  these  two  criminals,  
these  two  robbers.  One  of  them  didn’t  understand  his  crimes.  
He  just  wanted  someone  strong  enough  to  save  him.  He  relied  
on  the  power  of  simple  strength.   The  other  one  did   under-
stand  the  situation.  He  told  the  first  robber,  ‘What  are  you  
saying?  You  and  I  deserve  what  we’re  suffering  now.’  Which  
shows he knew. ‘But why should this innocent man suffer?’  
You  will  ask,  ‘How  do  you  know  he  attended  the    ser-
mons  of  Jesus?’  He  knew  what  Jesus  was  teaching  - the  king-
dom  of  heaven.  It  wasn’t  just  at  that  moment  that  Jesus  taught  
him  that.  What  did  he  say?  ‘remember  me  when  you  come    
into  your  kingdom.’  He  knew  for  a  fact  that  he  had  to  pay  for  
his  crimes.  They  were  his.  But  he  repented.  And  what  did    Je-
sus say to him? ‘truly, I tell you, today you shall be with me 
 
85 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
in  Paradise.’  Was  this  a  favour?  No.  He  had  earned  it.  So,  no  
criminal  can  say    ‘Oh!   you  have  committed   so  many    mur-
ders,  come  on!  count  them.  So  many  -   and  I  have  committed  
less than that’ Murder is murder.  
This  is  what  I  call  the  Mercy  of  God.  Do  you  remember  
when  Jesus  told  the  rich  young  man  to  sell  everything  he  had 
and  give  it  away?  He  said  then  about  the  Mercy  of  God,    ‘It’s  
as  difficult  for  a  rich  man  to  enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven  as   
for  a  camel  to  pass  through  the  eye  of  a  needle.’  And  when  
they  were  surprised,  Jesus  said,  ‘What  is  impossible  humanly,  
is  possible  for  God’  (Mark  10:27).  Which  means  that  we  
shouldn’t  judge  with  our  human  intelligence  and  understand  
ing.  Because  we  don’t  know  what,  in  reality,  the  Mercy  of   
God  is.  When  I  make  that  prayer,  before  my  lessons,  I  say: 
‘God  of  Love,  Life  and  Mercy.’  That  very  moment,  I  feel  
within  me  something  very,  very  strong.  I  understand  Love.  I  
understand  Life.  But  Mercy?  What’s Mercy?  Love  without  
limits? Yes, it must mean that.  
86 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
87 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Good Samaritan 
 
THE GOOD SAMARITAN  Luke 10:25-37  
 
On  one  occasion  a  lawyer  came  forward  and  put  this   
test  question  to  him:  ‘Master,  what  must  I  do  to  inherit  eter-
nal  life?’  Jesus  said,  ‘What  is  written  in  the  Law?  What  is  
your  reading  of  it?’  He  replied,  ‘Love  the  Lord  your  God   
with  all  your  heart,  with  all your  soul,  with  all  your  strength  
and  with  all  your  mind;  and  your  neighbour  as  yourself.’  
‘That  is  the  right  answer,’  said  Jesus;  ‘do  that  and  you  will  
live.’ 
But  he  wanted  to  vindicate  himself,  so  he  said  to  Jesus,  
‘And  who  is  my  neighbour?’  Jesus  replied,  ‘A  man  was  on  
his way from Jerusalem down to Jericho when he fell in with 
robbers,  who  stripped  him,  beat  him,  and  went  off  leaving  
him  half  dead.  It  so  happened  that  a  priest  was  going  down   
by  the  same  road;  but  when  he  saw  him,  he  went  past  on  the  
other  side.  So  too  a  Levite  came  to  the  place,  and  when  he  
saw  him  went  past  on  the  other  side.  But  a  Samaritan  who  
was  making  the  journey  came  upon  him,  and  when  he  saw  
him   was   moved   to   pity.   He   went   up   and   bandaged   his  
wounds,  bathing  them  with  oil  and  wine.  Then  he  lifted  him  
up on to his own beast, brought him to an inn and looked af-
ter  him  there.  Next  day  he  produced  two  silver  pieces  and  
gave  them  to  the  innkeeper,  and  said,  “Look  after  him;  and   
if  you  spend  any  more,  I  will  repay  you  on  my  way  back.”  
Which of these three was neighbour to the man who fell into 
the  hands  of  the  robbers?’  He  answered,  ‘The  one  who  
showed him kindness.’ Jesus said, ‘Go and do as he did.’ 
 
88 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Now  we  know  that  the  Jews,  in  Jesus’  time,  were  divided  
into  twelve  tribes.  The  Samaritans  were  outcasts.  No  one  
would  give  them  any  consideration,  even  though  they  were  
Jews.  If  someone  was  called  a  Samaritan,  it  meant  something  
very,  very  bad.  When  Jesus  went  to  the  well,  where  the  Sa-
maritan  woman  found  him  and  He  asked  her  to  give  Him    
some  water,  she  said,  ‘Hey!  You’re  a  Jew  and  you’re  asking     
a  Samaritan  to  give  you  water?’  That  clearly  shows  what  the  
situation  was  at  the  time.  The  Jews  thought  of  the  Samaritans  
as outcasts.  
Now,  in  this  parable,  Jesus  is  giving  a  strong  blow  and  
great  lesson.  A  priest,  who  is  supposed  to  be  a  man  of  God,  
passed  the  place  and  saw  the  man  wounded  by  the  bandits.   
The  priest  took  no  notice  of  him  -  he  even  crossed  the  road  to  
keep  his  distance  - and  went  away.  He  didn’t  have  love  and 
compassion  towards  his  fellow  man,  though  he  was  claiming   
to  worship  God.  That’s  the  greatest  blow.  The  Levite,  sup-
posedly  another  man  of  God,  did  the  same.  No  expression  of  
love.  They  were  too  fixed  in  their  egoism  and  their  tribal  be-
liefs.  The  Samaritan,  the  outcast,  came  along.  He  didn’t  say,  
‘Oh!  that  wounded  man  had  better  be  a  Samaritan,  or  I  won’t  
help  him.’  He  knew  that  he  belonged  to  a  class  that  despised  
the  Samaritans,  yet  he  didn’t  see  him  like  that.  He  didn’t  say,  
‘Oh!  You  are  not  a  Samaritan.  You  are  one  of  those  people  
who  insult  us  and  chase  us  away.’  No  he  said:  ‘You  are  in   
need  now,  nearly  dying.  I  don’t  care  who  you  are.’  And  he  
gave  him  some  of  his  ‘oil  and  wine’  (that  represents  ‘care’  
here),  bathed  his  wounds,  caressed  him  with  the  love  of  his  
heart.  And  even  that  was  not  enough.  Somebody  had  to  look  
after him, so he took him to an inn, where they had what was 
 
89 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
needed to look after a wounded man. He gave them money and 
said, ‘I  will  come  back  to  see  how  he  is.’  That  meant  that  his  
care was not just to that point; not just giving them some money 
and forgetting the whole thing. ‘If you need more, I will give it 
to  you.’  That  shows  that  he  would  come  back  to  make  sure  - 
more love. By putting the Samaritan into this par-able, who was 
a  sinner  to  the  rest  of  the  Jews,  He  gave  a  very,  very  strong  
lesson  to  the  Pharisees  and  the  Sadducees.  What  He  wants  to  
say here is ‘What counts is love - no matter by whom it's given 
or to whom it’s given.’  
90 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
91 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Friend in Need 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE FRIEND IN NEED  Luke 11:5-8  
 
Suppose  one  of  you  has  a  friend  who  comes  to  him  in  
the  middle  of  the  night  and  says,  ‘My  friend,  lend  me  three  
loaves,  for  a  friend  of  mine  on  a  journey  has  turned  up  at     
my  house,  and  I  have  nothing  to  offer  him;’   and  he  replies  
from  inside,  ‘Do  not  bother  me.  The  door  is  shut  for  the  
night;  my  children  and  I  have  gone  to  bed;  and  I  cannot  get  
up  and  give  you  what  you  want.’  I  tell  you  that  even  if  he    
will  not  provide  for  him  out  of  friendship,  the  very  shame-
lessness of the request will make him get up and give him all 
he  asks.  And  I  say  to  you,  ask,  and  you  will   receive;   seek, 
and  you  will  find;  knock,  and  the  door  will  be  opened.  For  
everyone  who  asks  receives,  he who  seeks  finds,  and  to  him  
who  knocks,  the  door  will  be  opened.  Is  there  a  father    
among  you  who  will  offer  his  son  a  snake  when  he  asks  for  
fish,  or  a  scorpion  when  he  asks  for  an  egg?  If  you,  then,   
bad as you are, know how to give your children what is good 
for  them,  how  much  more  will  the  heavenly  Father  give  the  
Holy Spirit to those who ask him.  
92 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
This  is  quite  clear.  Seek  and  you  shall  find.  Ask  and  it   
will  be  given  to  you.  The  fellow,  the  friend  to  whom  he    ap-
plied at the last moment - that’s God. No matter what time it is, 
if   you   come   from   your   journey   and   need   rest,   ask   God.     
Maybe Absolute Beingness is busy with Its creation, or ‘asleep 
with  his  children’    -     that   means   a    time   when   the    Arch-
angels  are  less  active,  because  they  also  have  a  cycle  of  ‘day’ 
and  ‘night’,    activity  and  rest.   The  Absolute  Beingness may   
tell  you, ‘Now  is  not  the  right  time  to  ask  me  for  bread.’  But    
if  you  insist  and  insist,  the  Archangels  will  come  to  give  you  
your  bread,  just  to  keep  you  silent  and  not  disturb  the  peace     
of  the  ‘night’!  If  you  are  a  fellow,  who  is  rather  inconsiderate,  
we  might  say,  and  you  ask  and  ask  all  the  time,  then,  even  if 
Absolute Beingness is busy in Its universes and maybe it’s not 
the time you -   a present-day personality -   should ask for it, be-
cause  you  insist,  you  will  be  given  what  you  ask  for.  What  
shall  we  call  that?  Is  that  the  Mercy  of  God  too?  God’s  not  
going
 to get angry, because He can’t  get angry. He is  our  all-
loving  Father.  So  this  is  what  Jesus  means  when  He  says,    
‘Ask  and  it  shall  be  given  to  you.’  But  be  careful!  No  matter  
what  you  desire  - good,  right,  or  evil  -   it  will  be  fulfilled,  
sometime.  
We teach  what  we  know  as  being  the  reality,  by    observ-
ing and studying all things  around us.  We have already spok-
en  about  the  nature  of  elementals.  What  we  know  by  experi-
ence,  from  studying  and  observing,  is  that  once  an  elemental    
is  created,  it  will  never  be  disenergized  unless...  Let  us  just    
see what we mean by ‘unless’.  
If  it  is  not  disenergized,  it  will  definitely  fulfill  its  pur-
pose. That’s  definite. We don't know when it will fulfill its 
 
93 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
purpose,  but  it  will  fulfill  its  purpose.  Again  I  say,  if  in  the  
meantime  it  is  not  disenergized.  That’s  what  we  are  teaching   
in  our  circles.  We  teach  how  elementals  are  created,  projected  
and how they behave and how they are working.  
Now, the life of a human being on the planet in one incar-
nation  is  very,  very  short  and  that  fellow  is  creating  and  send  
ing  out  thousands  of  elementals.  What  happens  to  these  ele-
mentals?  When  they  are  alike  or  similar,  they  mix  together    
and they make a stronger elemental, so that in the end we have 
all  those  elementals  grouped  in  certain  groups.  Now,  we  said  
that  all  elementals  will  fulfill  the  purpose  for  which  they  were  
created,  if  we  give  them  time  to  do  their  work.  We  teach  that,   
in  sending  out  an  elemental  - a  strong  desire-elemental,  or  
wish-elemental -   all  the  time  we  think  about  it,  that  elemental  
goes  out  and  comes  back  to  its  creator,  because  we  bring  it  
back.  We  are  not  giving  it  time  to  work.  So  it  goes  out,     
comes  back  to  get  more  energy,  goes  out,  comes  back  for  still  
more  energy  and  having  ever  more  and  more  energy,  it  domi-
nates  us,  until  it  becomes  our  master,  our  sole  idea.  That’s    
how  we  get  very,  very  strong  fixed  ideas.  When  it  is  fulfilled,   
it  is  soon  disenergized.  You  have  a  desire.  It  is  fulfilled  and   
you  forget  about  it.  Then  you  have  another  one,  and  if  that’s  
fulfilled, you have again another one. There is no end to desir-
ing and wishing to have, to get.  
Nearly all desires are fulfilled and all of us know it, when 
we  give  them  time  to  work.  Giving  them  time  to  work  means  
that  we  have  another  desire,  or  something  else  occupies  our  
mind,  so  we  forget  about  the  first  desire  and  in  this  way  we  
give it time to work.  
Some say ‘Oh! This came to me. That desire’s fulfilled  
  
94 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
just  when  I  don’t  want  it  any  more.’  Or  they  don’t  want  it  as  
much  as  they  wanted  it  before.  The  other  day  some  people  
were  telling  me,  ‘Yes,  you  are  right!  Our  desires  are  fulfilled,  
and  it  is  when  we  don’t  want  them.’  No.  It’s  when  you  have  
given them time to work, to bring you what you wanted. This is 
because  people  do  not  want  to  learn  about  the  mechanism  of  
the  elementals,  of  these  emotional  thought-forms,  or  of  these  
reasoned thought-forms. 
Now,  what  about  those  desires  which  are  not  fulfilled?  
We  may  have  desires  which  our  present  place in  life  –  accord-
ing  to  the  burden  of  the  debts  of  the  past,  or  the  present  -   
makes  it  impossible  to  fulfill.  What  happens?  They  will  be  
fulfilled  in  another  incarnation.  But  as  I  said  earlier,  make    
sure  that  what  you  desire  and  what  you  want  to  have  will  not  
be the stepping-stones you will find on your way in another in-
carnation.  You  will  find  out  that  you  don’t  really  need  these  
things as much as you think you do now!  
Let us take some examples. Now, I said before ‘unless... .’ 
So,  all  elementals  no  matter  what  their  quality,  evil  or  good  
elementals,  tend  to  be  fulfilled.  We  teach  in  our  lessons  that  if  
we  repent  - change  our  minds  - before  their  fulfillment,  we  
disenergize  them.  If  we  are  wise    enough   to  disenergize cer-
tain  elementals,  or  ardent  desires,  we'll  find  out  later  that      
those  desires,  if  fulfilled,  would  have  damaged  us  more  than  
they would have benefitted us. That needs reasoning.  
So,  what  do  we  do?  We  have  to  create  and  send  out  new  
elementals  to  replace  them  and  annihilate  their power.  Now,  
how  do  we  disenergize  elementals?  Can  we  kill  those  elemen-
tals?  Elementals  can  never  be  killed.  They  continue  to  exist    
and some of them are revitalized by us. To be killed, never! 
 
95 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
But  they  can  be  disenergized.  We  can  disenergize  those  indi-
vidual  elementals  we  have  re-energized  and  send  them  to  the  
Cosmic Consciousness, to join their group.  
But  to  disenergize  an  elemental  you  must  spend  energy  
and force equal to their energy. So that’s a double loss; the en-
ergy  you  have  spent  to  build  them  and  then  the  energy  to  dis-
energize  them  and  create  another  elemental  - a  positive  one  
now -   to  disenergize  the  negative  elemental.  This  is  possible.  
We  can  disenergize  an  elemental  in  this  way,  by  sending  it  
away, before it has fulfilled the desire or the wish it was creat-
ed  for,  to  be  stored  in  the  Cosmic  Consciousness.  Of  course  
these are some of the lessons we are giving.  
Now,  having  this  process  regarding  elementals  in  mind,  
we  can  come  back  to  the  parable  or  to  the  sayings  of  Christ.  
When  Christ  cast  the  ‘devil’  -  the  elemental  - out  of  that  man  
who  was,  as  they  now  call  them,  epileptic,  He  asked  the  ele-
mental  ‘What’s your  name?’  It  said  ‘Legion’.  That  means  a  
group, a legion of elementals vibrating in the same way, tortur-
ing  that  man.  Science  now  calls  it  neuroses.  In  another  case,  
they  told  Christ,  ‘Sir,  we  brought  this  man,  but  your  disciples  
could not cast away that evil spirit.’ In that case, we see Christ 
rebuking  them,  calling  them  ‘a  faithless  generation.’  Later  on,  
when His disciples asked him why they could not cast the  dev-
il  out,  He  told  them  that  this  kind  of  elemental  cannot  be  cast  
out unless by fasting and prayer.  
The  prayer  which  Jesus  means  here  is  the  construction  of  
new, positive elementals to annihilate, or disenergize, the pow-
er  of  those  other  elementals,  and  to  send  them  off  to  the  Cos-
mic Consciousness. 
Really, the study of the elementals is the most important in  
  
96 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
our  life  on  this  planet.  We  are  teaching  it  and  it   should   in-
terest  everyone;  how  elementals  are  created,  their  nature,  their  
force  or  energy,  how  they  behave,  how  they  create  what  we  
call  personal  egoism  and  how  to  study  them,  by  observation,  
meditation  and  concentration,  and  the  ability  gradually  to  dis-
energize  some  of  them  at  a  time,  over  a  period,  until  we  be-
come the masters of our home.  
97 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Rich Farmer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE RICH FARMER  Luke 12:13-21  
 
A man in the crowd said to him, ‘Master, tell my brother 
to  divide  the  family  property  with  me.’  He  replied,  ‘My  good  
man,  who  set  me  over  you  to  judge  or  arbitrate?’  Then  he  
said  to  the  people,  ‘Beware!  Be  on  your  guard  against  greed  
of  every  kind,  for  even  when  a  man  has  more  than  enough,  
his wealth does not give him life.’ And he told them this par-
able:  
There  was  a  rich  man  whose  land  yielded  heavy  crops. 
He  debated  with  himself:  ‘What  am  I  to  do?  I  have  not  the  
space  to  store  all  my  produce.  This  is  what  I  will  do,’  said     
he;  ‘I  will  pull  down  my  storehouses  and  build  them  bigger.     
I  will  collect  in  them  all  my  corn  and  other  goods,  and  then  
say  to  myself,  “Man,  you  have  plenty  of  good  things,  laid  by,  
enough  for  many  years:  take  life  easy,  eat,  drink,  and  enjoy  
yourself.” But God said to him, ‘You fool, this very night you 
must  surrender  your  life;  you  have  made  your  money  -   who 
will  get  it  now?’  That  is  how  it  is  with  the  man  who  amasses  
wealth for himself and remains a pauper in the sight of God. 
 
98 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
That’s  just  the  lesson  we  are  giving  all  the  time.  I  have  
spoken of that very rich man I know, who doesn’t ever get any 
satisfaction in life. He’s seventy-eight -   my age! - and he’s still 
just  piling  up  and  piling  up.  What  for?  We  can’t  take  anything  
material  with  us  to  the  other  side.  If  it’s  in  another  form,  of  
course,  we  can  take  much  from  the  material  world;  love,  com-
passion, real giving to those who are in need - of what we can’t 
take over to the other side anyway. So this fellow in the parable 
was satisfied with all the material things, the crops of the earth, 
and  was  thinking  how  to  store  them  and  have  them  for  many,  
many  years.  But  who  decides  when  you  are  leaving  -   passing 
over? Jesus was persuading us to seek
 and store our riches in the 
kingdom of heaven and beyond. It’s no good only doing it here,
 
because we are leaving. We’re not going to stay here for long. So 
I think this is what He means. Piling up
 things on earth is vanity. 
And in the next verses He says: ‘take no thought for your Life,
 
what you will eat; nor for the body, what you will put on. The life 
is more than food and the body than clothes.’ Life? What does 
He mean ‘Life’? He doesn’t only mean life in the material body 
and  in  the  material  world,  because  he  speaks  about  riches  in  
heaven. He means ‘life here and life there’. What, after all, are 
we in
 need of if we don’t really live? It’s quite clear. He’s talking 
about life beyond the
 material world, as well as in it. Concern for 
what  you  eat  and  what  you  wear  is  not  yours,  it’s  God’s.  He
 
creates everything you need, the food to eat, the materials to man-
ufacture your clothes, so just collect those things and use them, 
but don’t make them your main concern. And apart from using 
what   God   has   created,   you   must   address   yourself   to   the   
question ‘What  is  life?’  You  must  ask  yourself  why  you  need  
these things to feed and clothe yourself. It is more important to 
concern   your   self   with   the   inner   meaning   than   with   the   
mechanics  
99 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Unfruitful Fig Tree 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE UNFRUITFUL FIG-TREE  Luke 13: 6-9  
 
A  man  had  a  fig-tree  growing  in  his  vineyard;  and  he  
came  looking  for  fruit  on  it,  but  found  none.  So  he  said  to   
his  vine-dresser,  ‘Look  here!  For  the  last  three  years  I  have  
come  looking  for  fruit  on  this  fig-tree  without  finding  any.  
Cut  it  down.  Why  should  it  go  on  using  up  the  soil?’  But  he  
replied, ‘Leave it, Sir, this one year while I dig around it and 
manure it.  And  if  it  bears  next  season,  well  and  good;  if  not,  
you shall have it down.’  
100 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  means  that  what  is  not  valuable  should  be  cut  out.  
But  what  does  ‘valuable’  mean? ‘We’ve  had  that  fig-tree  for  
three   years,’ said   the   master   (which   is   God,   Absolute 
Beingness), ‘not  giving  any  fruit.’  That  means  life’s  service,  
even  what  people  call  doing  evil.  ‘What’s  the  use  of  wasting  
good  land?’  says  the  master.  ‘If  it  doesn’t   give  any  fruit,  why  
should  we  keep  it  there?’  But  the  gardener  (which  is  Christ),  
who   cares   about   the   land,   says:   ‘Give   it   another   chance,   
please. Maybe I can make that fig-tree give fruit.’  
So  the  meaning  of  this  parable  is,  don’t despair  if  for   
some  years  - even  for  many  years  -   you  didn’t   ‘give  any  fruit’ 
(you  have  been  living  a  bad  life).  The  Lord  of  Giving,  the  
Logos, the Light of the World, the Giver of Self-Awareness, is 
waiting  to  see  if  with  one  more  ‘year’  (one  more  chance)  you  
will  give  fruit.  That  means  that  until  the  last  moment  there  is  
hope  of  giving  satisfaction.  There  is  always  hope  and  an  
opportunity to change for the better.  
101 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
When Invited to a Feast 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEN INVITED TO A FEAST  Luke 14:1-11  
 
One  Sabbath  he  went  to  have  a  meal  in  the  house  of  a  
leading   Pharisee   When   he   noticed   how   the   guests   were     
trying  to  secure  the  places  of  honour,  he  spoke  to  them  in  a  
parable:  When  you  are  asked  by  someone  to  a  wedding    
feast,  do  not  sit  down  in  the  place  of  honour.  It  may  be  that  
some   person   more   distinguished   than   yourself   has   been   
invited;  and  the  host  will  come  and  say  to  you,  ‘Give  this   
man  your  seat.’  Then  you  will  look  foolish  as  you  begin  to  
take  the  lowest  place.  No,  when  you  receive  an  invitation,  go  
and  sit  down  in  the  lowest  place,  so  that  when  your  host  
comes  he  will  say,  ‘Come  up  higher,  my  friend.’  Then  all  
your  fellow-guests  will  see  the  respect  in  which  you  are  held.  
For   everyone   who   exalts   himself   will   be   humbled;   and   
whoever humbles himself will be exalted.  
102 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  parable  refers  to  the  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect.  It’s 
just  to  tell  us  that  we  shouldn’t  overestimate  ourselves  and  
underestimate  others.  You  will  be  put  in  the  place  where  you  
have   a   right   to   sit.   Who   puts   you   there?   The   one   who     
prepares the feast and invites you to it. Who is that? God. God 
has  sent  you  to  the  material  plane,  and  everyone  will  do      
what  God  plans  for  them  to  do.  You  are  what  you  are,  and    
God  will  find  you  and  take  you  to  your  rightful  place.  If  you  
are using your thoughts and your emotions properly, you should 
be  honoured;  you  have  honoured  yourself.  So  even  if  you 
behave   with   modesty   on   the   material   plane,   not   pushing   
yourself  forward,  not  making  false  claims  about  yourself,  God  
knows who you really are.  
The  one  who  takes  the  wrong  seat  will  suffer.  Egoism  
attracts   its   own   punishment,   while   modesty   is   rewarded.    
Sooner   or   later,   everyone   will   get   the   seat   they   deserve.   
Everyone  is  trying  to  obtain  a  distinction  in  life.  Those  who     
do  it  by  studying  the  proper  use  of  the  thoughts,  the  emotions  
and  life  itself,  will  be  put  in  the  place  they  deserve  by  the   
Host. Those  who  try  to  deceive  others,  in  order  to  get  a  seat  
they  don’t  deserve,  will  be  forced  in  the  end  to  sit  in  the  seat  
they do deserve.       
103 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Cost of Discipleship 
 
 
 
 
 
THE COST OF DISCIPLESHIP  Luke 14:28-43 
 
If  anyone  comes  to  me  and  does  not  hate  his  father  and  
mother,  wife  and  children,  brothers  and  sisters,  even  his  own  
life,  he  cannot  be  a  disciple  of  mine.  No  one  who  does  not  
carry  his  cross  and  come  with  me  can  be  a  disciple  of  mine.  
Would  any  of  you  think  of  building  a  tower  without  first  
sitting down and calculating the cost, to see whether he could 
afford to finish it? Otherwise, if he has laid its foundation and 
then is not able to complete it, all the onlookers will laugh at 
him.  ‘There  is  the  man,’  they  will  say,  (who  started  to  build  
and  could  not  finish.’  Or  what  king  will  march  to  battle  
against  another  king,  without  first  sitting  down  to  consider  
whether with ten thousand men he can face an enemy coming 
to  meet  him  with  twenty  thousand?  If  he  cannot,  then,  long  
before  the  enemy  approaches,  he  sends  envoys,  and  asks  for  
terms.  So  also  none  of  you  can  be  a  disciple  of  mine  without  
taking leave of all his possessions. 
 
  
104 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Every  human  being  coming  into  the  world  from  the  time  
of  their  birth  is  already  carrying  a  ‘cross’.  It  is  a  cross  which  
that  person  brought  with  them  from  previous  incarnations.  I  
call  that  ‘cross’  the  Law.  The  Hindus  call  it  the  law  of  karma.   
We call it the Law of Destiny, or the Law of Cause and Effect. 
So,  each  one  of  us,  from  the  time  we  are  born,  is  already  
carrying a cross.  
Christ says ‘his cross’ (the cross of each one of us). Now, 
he  speaks  also  of  His  cross  as  Jesus  Christ.   What  is  the  cross  
of  Christ  in  comparison  with  the  cross  each  one  of  us  is  
carrying?  Jesus  Christ  doesn’t  say,  ‘He  who  wants  to  follow  
me, to follow my way, will carry my cross and follow me.’ He 
says, ‘carry his cross and follow me.’  
So,  each  of  us  having  a  cross,  the  Law  of  Destiny,  the  
Law  of  Cause  and  Effect,  should  look  at  the  cross  of  Christ   
and   follow   Christ,   because   only   by   following   Christ   in     
carrying   our   cross,   that   means   following   His   teachings   
regarding  events  in  life,  can  save  us,  save  the  person  who’s 
carrying  it.  If  a  person  is  already  carrying  his  cross  and  will   
not  follow  Him,  then  he  will  have  to  go  on  carrying  his  own  
cross  to  suffering,  and  more  suffering.  Christ  is  stating  a  great  
truth. Each one of us carries a cross.  
Now,  what  cross?  How  heavy?  This  depends  upon  our  
previous  life  and  behaviour.  Whatever  you  do,  you  have  to  
obey  that  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect;  we  cannot  go  against  our  
destiny.   That  is  what  discipleship  means.   Because  whether   
we  want  to  or  not,  we  have  to  carry  our  cross.  But,  when  we  
look  at  Christ  carrying  His  cross,  we  can  make  our  own  cross  
lighter.  In  another  place  in  the  Gospels,  Christ  says,  ‘Come  to  
me and I'll make your cross lighter’ (cf. Matt. 11:28-30). 
 
105 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
So we must take note of these things not just in one place, 
but  in  many,  many  places  and  get  the  real  meaning  out  of   
them.  
Now,  there’s  another  question.  Someone  will  ask  how  it  
was  that  the  most  innocent  of  all  human  beings,  the  God-Man, 
had  a  cross.  Has  a  cross?  What  is  the  nature  of  the  cross  of  
Christ?  Very,  very  heavy  indeed.  The  cross  of  Christ  was  not  
simply  the  wooden  cross  he  was  carrying  to  the  hill,  where  
they  crucified  His  body  on  that  piece  of  wood.  The  cross  of  
Christ  is  the  cross  of  the  world,  of  all  the  human  race.  This  is  
the true meaning.  
The  Catholic  Church  says  in  Latin,  ‘Agnus  Dei  qui  tollis  
peccata  mundi’  (O  Lamb  of  God,  that  takest  away  the  sins  of  
the   world).
 The Greek Orthodox also says the same, ‘‘Ο  
αϊρων τὰς ἀμαρτίας τ οῦ κόσμου.’  So  the  cross  of  Christ  is  the  
cross  of  the  human  race,  most  heavy  indeed.  When  we  speak   
of  the  cross  of  Christ  as  the  cross  which  Joshua-Jesus  was  
carrying  from  the  Praetorium,  the  Governor’s  palace,  to  the   
hill where his body was crucified, believe me it was very light. 
It was made of wood. That was not the cross of Christ. He did 
indeed  carry  that  wooden  cross  to  which  they  nailed  His  body,  
which  he  resurrected.  But  the  true  cross  of  Christ  exists  till  
now.   Jesus   Christ,   the   Light   which   lighteth   every   human    
being  coming  to  the  world,  just  by  the  very  nature  of  His 
Beingness  and  existence,  is  carrying  the  cross  of  all  of  us,  is  
carrying the cross of the world.  
So  it  is  right  that  we  should  listen  to  what  He  said.  Each  
one  of  us  has  a  cross,  heavy  or  not  heavy.  We’re  carrying  our  
cross   on   our   shoulders,   but   near   our   shoulders   are   the   
shoulders  of  Jesus,  of  the Christ, and it is He who is carrying  
106 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
our  cross.  Otherwise  we  should  not  be  able  to  bear  even  our  
own  cross,  by  the  way  we  are  living.  He  is  carrying  the  cross   
of humanity.  
This  parable  contains  practical  advice.  Consider  before-
hand  what  you  are  supposed  to  do.  Prepare  yourself  for  that  
before  you  start.  You  want  to  become  a  preacher  of  the  
kingdom  of  heaven?  Of  course,  you  see  others  doing  it  and   
you  say  to  yourself,’  Why  shouldn’t  I  go  and  become  a  
preacher  too?’  But  qualify  yourself  before  doing  it.  You  may  
find  that  you  can’t  do  it  after  all.  You  want  to  become  a  
disciple -   and  I  understand  you  - to  go  and  preach  and  cure  
people and do such things. Just wanting to do it is not enough. 
You must qualify yourself before starting.  
‘Taking  leave  of  all  your  possessions’  or  ‘giving  up  your  
possessions’ doesn’t  mean  just  throwing  them  away.  Dispose  
of  them  in  the  right  way.  You  can  keep  them  for  your  own    
use,  but  don’t  be  enchanted  by  them.  Hold  on  to  what  you  
need,  but  get  free  of  the  idea  of  possessiveness.  Jesus  didn’t 
mean  that  you  should  make  yourself  a  beggar  and  hold  out  
your  hand  for  alms,  or  that  you  should ‘hate’ all  your  family,  
because  He  wouldn’t  like  that.  He  is  just  saying  that  you  must  
detach  yourself  from  all  those  things.  These  words  have  been  
most  misunderstood,  I  know.  If  He  had  meant  that  we  should  
throw  everything  away,  why  would  He  have  said  ‘Ask  and  it  
shall  be  given  to  you’?   ‘Give  up’  doesn’t  mean  ‘Kick  away!’ 
‘Give  up’  means ‘don’t  be  a  slave  of’  that.  Why  does  he  tell    
us  in  the  Lord’s  Prayer  to  say’  Give  us  this  day  our  daily  
bread’?  Spiritual  or  material  bread.  It  doesn’t  matter.  Why      
not  some  material  bread  too?  Why  ask,  if  He  means  you  to   
give up everything? No!’ Give up’ means’ don’t be a slave of.  
 
107 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
What  do  we  see  in  life?  Making  money,  making  money. 
That means being a slave of these things you want to call your 
own.  That's  what  he  seems  to  say:  ‘Give  up  all  those  things.’  
An  Indian  yogi  once  said  to  me:  ‘Both  Christ  and  Buddha   
have  been  misunderstood.  Detachment,  as  you  say,  is  what  
they   approved.   But   “giving   up”   is   very   different   from 
“detachment”.’  
It  would  be  foolish  to  throw  everything  away,  to  wear   
just a cross round your neck and walk about naked. Because if 
you  give  everything  up,  kicking  everything  away  from  you,  
you  become  a  very,  very  poor  person.  Now  a  very  poor    
person  will  be  in  need  of  others.  It  means  that  such  a  person 
will  be  a  nuisance  to  others,  perhaps.  This  is  not  Jesus’  aim!   
He  didn’t   want  to  cause  trouble  to  others.  Money  will  provide 
people  with  things  they  need,  but  is  not  for  keeping  only  to 
yourself,  making  others  poorer  and  seeing  them  go  hungry.     
So  the  message  of  this  parable  is  ‘Don’t  be  enchanted  by  the 
things   and   relationships   of   this   material   world.’ Never 
overestimate,  or  overvalue  anything,  and  don’t underestimate   
or undervalue anything either. Each thing has its purpose.  
 
108 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
109 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Lost Coin 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE LOST COIN  Luke 15:8-10  
 
Or again, if a woman has ten silver pieces and loses one 
of  them,  does  she  not  light  the  lamp,  sweep  out  the  house,   
and  look  in  every  corner  till  she  has  found  it?  And  when  she  
has,  she  calls  her  friends  and  neighbours  together,  and  says,  
‘Rejoice  with  me!  I  have  found  the  piece  that  I  lost.’  In  the  
same  way,  I  tell  you,  there  is  joy  among  the  angels  of  God  
over one sinner who repents.    
  
110 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Jesus   says   in   this   parable:   ‘We   belong   to   Absolute   
Beingness.’  So  if  one  of  us  is  ‘lost’,  he  will  not  be  given  up.  
God  will  just  try  to  bring  him  back.  It  is  the  same  parable  as   
the  sheep  - this  fellow  who  lost  one  sheep  and  left  the  other  
ninety-nine  to  go  and  look  for  it  and  find  it  and  bring  it  back    
to  the  fold.  Now  we  have  the  same  story  with  coins.  In  the  
story  of  the  shepherd,  Jesus  spoke  of  Himself  as  Christ,  the  
Logos.   Now,   in   speaking   about   a   woman,   He   means   the   
present-day personality.  
The  statement  is  very  clear,  as  Christ  is  making  it.  This    
is  a  parable,  which  was  said  in  different  ways.  Here  a  woman,   
a  present-day  personality,  loses  something  belonging  to  her,  
her  own,  which  she  thinks  of  as  very,  very  valuable.  Having  
lost  it,  she  searches  to  find  it.  She  lights  a  lamp  to  see  into  all  
the  corners.  That  means  using  thought  and  reason  to  make  her  
search  complete.  She  rejoices  after  finding  it  and  calling  her  
friends  around  her,  tells  them  ‘I  found  that  thing  which  I  had  
lost,’ and  they  rejoice  too.  And  Christ  says  clearly,  that  there    
is joy among the angels in heaven for one who returns.  
So,  the  ‘woman’  is  only  an  example.  Now,  if  a  simple,  
ordinary,  everyday  woman,  who  loses  something  takes  such  
pains  to  find  it,  what  about  the  Infinite  Beingness?  What  will   
It do, seeing a being, a child of God, lost in ignorance?  
In  this  parable  the  ‘woman’  means  nothing  more  than  a  
woman  or  a  personality,  but  the  meaning  of  the  parable  is  that  
if something is lost the fellow owning it wants to have it back. 
In  speaking  of  that  woman,  Jesus  also  wanted  to  mention  that  
she  had  called  her  friends  to  rejoice  with  her  when  she  had  
found  what  she  had  lost.  When  He  spoke  of  a  woman  and  her  
neighbours,   He   was   telling   us   that   the   angels   and  the  
 
111 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
Archangels,  our  angels  in  Heaven,  are  the  neighbours.  Finding  
that   lost   coin,   she   rejoices   with   her   neighbours.   So,   the   
Heavenly  Man,  as  we  may  call  Him,  the  Logos,  finding  one  
who  returns,  rejoices  with  all  the  Archangels  of  heaven.  This  
parable is very, very clear.  
Now, apart from this parable, Christ gives another parable. 
He says ‘A man had a number of sheep, and he lost one. Will he 
not leave all the others in the herd and go, searching to find that 
lost lamb and bring it back home?’ So, the same thing repeated 
in other parables, tells us that we are not neglected. Never mind 
that we now find ourselves in a world of illusion, of shadow, of 
death, as Christ says, or considered to be lost. We are cared for 
by the Archangels and by the Logos Himself.  
 
112 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
113 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Prodigal Son 
 
THE PRODIGAL SON  Luke 15:11-32  
 
There  was  once  a  man  who  had  two  sons;  and  the  
younger  said  to  his  father,  ‘Father,  give  me  my  share  of  the  
property.’  So  he  divided  his  estate  between  them.  A  few  days  
later the younger son turned the whole of his share into cash 
and  left  home  for  a  distant  country,  where  he  squandered  it  
in  reckless  living.  He  had  spent  it  all,  when  a  severe  famine  
fell  upon  that  country  and  he  began  to  feel  the  pinch.  So  he  
went  and  attached  himself  to  one  of  the  local  landowners,  
who  sent  him  on  to  his  farm  to  mind  the  pigs.  He  would    
have  been  glad  to  fill  his  belly  with  the  pods  the  pigs  were  
eating;  and  no  one  gave  him  anything.  Then  he  came  to  his  
senses  and  said,  ‘How  many  of  my  father’s paid  servants   
have more food than they can eat, and here am I, starving to 
death!  I  will  set  off  and  go  to  my  father,  and  say  to  him,  
“Father,  I  have  sinned,  against  God  and  against  you;  I  am   
no  longer  fit  to  be  called  your  son;  treat  me  as  one  of  your  
paid  servants.”’    So  he  set  out  for  his  father’s house.  But  
while  he  was  still  a  long  way  off  his  father  saw  him,  and  his  
heart  went  out  to  him.  He  ran  to  meet  him,  flung  his  arms  
round  him  and  kissed  him.  The  son  said,  ‘Father,  I  have  
sinned, against God and against you; I am no longer fit to be 
called your son.’  But the father said to his servants, ‘Quick! 
fetch  a  robe,  my  best  one,  and  put  it  on  him;  put  a  ring  on   
his  finger  and  shoes  on  his  feet.  Bring  the  fatted  calf  and     
kill  it,  and  let  us  have  a  feast  to  celebrate  the  day.  For  this  
son  of  mine  was  dead  and  has  come  back  to  life;  he  was  lost  
and is found.’  And the festivities began. 
  
114 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
Now  the  elder  son  was  out  on  the  farm;  and  on  his  way 
back,  as  he  approached  the  house,  he  heard  music  and  
dancing.  He  called  one  of  the  servants  and  asked  what  this  
meant.  The  servant  told  him,  ‘Your  brother  has  come  home,  
and your father has killed the fatted calf because he has him 
back  safe  and  sound.’  But  he  was  angry  and  refused  to  go    
in.   His   father   came   out   and   pleaded   with   him;   but   he  
retorted,  ‘You  know  how  I  have  slaved  for  you  all  these   
years;  I  never  once  disobeyed  your  orders;  and  you  never  
gave  me  so  much  as  a  kid,  for  a  feast  with  my  friends.  But  
now  that  this  son  of  yours  turns  up,  after  running  through  
your  money  with  his  women,  you  kill  the  fatted  calf  for  him. 
‘My  boy,’    said  the  father,  ‘you  are  always  with  me,  and 
everything  I  have  is  yours.  How  could  we  help  celebrating  
this  happy  day?  Your  brother  here  was  dead  and  has  come  
back to life, was lost and is found.’   
115 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
For  me,  this  is  one  of  the  most  important  parables  -   The 
Prodigal  Son.  What  is  it  that  he  said  to  his  father? ‘Give  me   
my  share  of  the  property.’  What’s  that?  Mind  –  everything    
that  is  Mind,  including  matter.  That’s  his  ‘portion’,  his  ‘share   
of  the  property’.  Now  the ‘younger  son’  is  a  soul  passing  
through  the  Idea  of  Man,  the  Human  Idea,  in  other  words,  a  
human  being.  The  elder  son  is  an  Archangel.  He  also  has  his  
share  of  the  property,  which  means  that  Archangels  are  using  
Mind  too.  So  our  Brothers  who  stayed  with  the  Father  have  
their  ‘share’ -   which  is  Mind.  Now  the  ‘younger  son’ -   that’s 
‘human beings’ - wasted his share with loose women, ‘harlots’ 
as   the   Authorised   Version   puts   it.   That   means   ‘matter’   - 
material  elementals.  He  wasted  it  and  lived  a  wastrel’s  life,  as  
Jesus  describes  it,  until  the  Lords  of  Earth,  the  Lords  of  
Separation,  had  him  as  their  slave.  They  sent  him  out  to  look  
after  the  pigs.  What  are  those ‘pigs’?  The  elementals  he  has  
created.  And  he  was  content  to  eat  the  food  those  pigs  were  
eating.    That    refers    to    the    filthy    combination    of    low    
elementals,  which  pollute  mind  and  emotion.  These  are  the  
elementals which Jesus called ‘deaf and dumb spirits’.  
But  then  he  came  to  his  senses.    ‘What  is  this  I’m   
eating?’ he  said.  ‘What  are  all  those  thoughts  and  emotions   
that  I  have?  Do  they  satisfy  me?  I'm  eating  the  same  food  as  
the  pigs  are  eating.’  So  he  decided  to  leave  and  go  back  to  his  
Father.  
Now  this  is  another  very  important  point.  All  the  time  he  
was thinking those thoughts, his Father knew it. Then he started 
thinking how to behave towards his Father. ‘Am I worthy to be 
his son? Am I worthy to be God?’ Let me just go back and sell 
myself into his service as the lower spirits    
 
116 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
are   doing,   the   nature   spirits.   (They   are   the   angels,   not 
Archangels.)  But  when  he  had  taken  some  steps  towards  his 
Father,  the  Father  rushed  to  him  and  embraced  him.  So  the 
Father is waiting for his return.  
What  did  he  say,  the  Father?  He  told  the  Archangels  to 
dress  him,  in  the  best  clothes  he  had.  ‘You  are  my  son,’  He 
said,  ‘you’re  not  a  servant.  You’re  a  son!.’    What  is  meant  by    
a  ‘servant’?  The  elementals  of  the  Archangels,  the  angels.   
They  are  the ‘servants’.  He  gave  him  his  own  best  clothes.  He 
didn’t  deprive  the  Archangels  of  their  best  clothes.    And  he    
put a ring on his finger. Now an Archangel only gets a ring on 
his  finger  if  he  returns  as  a  Self-Realized  Being,  after  going 
through  the  human  experience.  I’ve  contacted  the  Archangels 
many  times  and  I  tried  to  make  them  understand  time,  what    
we  humans  know  as  past,  present  and  future.  ‘We  are  in  the 
Eternal  Now,’  they  reply.  They  understand  the  Eternal  Now,  
for  they’ve  always  existed  ‘now’,  they  exist  ‘now’  and  they 
always   will   exist   ‘now’.   So   they   don’t   understand   past,     
present  and  future.  Their  world,  in  what  they  consider  the 
Eternal  Now,  is  always  the  same  - in building  bodies.  What 
interests  them  is  their  work  and  the  Truth,  expressing  their 
nature as they are, without understanding time.  
The  ring  on  his  finger  is  giving  the  younger  son  the 
knowledge  and  understanding  of  eternity.  What’s  eternity? 
Movement  without  beginning  and  without  end.  Now,  Infinite 
Beingness  is  eternal  motion.   Suppose  somebody  moves  on       
a ring, they will move eternally without having a beginning and 
an  end.  This  is  the  sense  of  eternity.  A  human  being  moving   
on  the  ring  can  understand  the  nature  of  past,  present  and 
future.  But   for   a  being   at     the  centre  of  the ring,  and  the  
 
117 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
movement, as the Archangels are, there is no past, present, and 
future, only the Eternal Now.’  
In the Parable of the Prodigal Son, it is stated clearly, that 
when the prodigal son returned home, first the father sacrificed 
the  well-fed  animal,  that  means  the  material  body;  flesh  and  
bones  and  blood  cannot  inherit  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  That’s 
clear.  Then  it  says  that  the  father  gave  him  the  best  dress  he  
had  as  a  prince,  the  same  dress  that  the  Archangel  his  brother  
had.  There  is  no  distinction  between  them  in  that.  But  when   
the  prodigal  son  was  given  a  ring  on  his  finger,  his  Father   
made him different from the Archangels in heaven.  
So  the  ‘elder  brother’  (which  means  the  ‘Principalities’, 
the   ‘Archons’,   which   are   orders   of   the   Archangels)   is   
complaining,  ‘You  never  gave  me  something  to  sacrifice.’  But 
the  Archangel  never  had  a  material  body  to  sacrifice.  As  we  
said,  the  ‘fatted  calf  means  the  material  body.  His  Father  told  
him,  ‘You  are  working  as  a  lord  of  the  elements  for  humans  
and  for  animals,  but  they  are  not  yours.  So  you  have  nothing    
to  kill.  But  he,  my  prodigal  son,  has  dressed  himself  with  
matter.’  Sacrificing,  killing,  a  ‘fatted  calf  means  killing  the  
involvement  with  matter.  The  elder  brother,  the  Archangel,   
had  never  enslaved  himself  to  matter,  so  he  had  never  needed  
even  a ‘baby  goat’  to  be  sacrificed  to  set  him  free.  Jesus  said  
that  flesh  and  blood  cannot  inherit  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  
They  are  out  of  place  there.  ‘So  why  do  you  complain?’  the 
Father  asked.  ‘Everything  I  have,  are  they  not  also  yours?      
You haven’t  been deprived of anything that is yours.’  
In this parable, we see that the prodigal son made bad use 
of  his  ‘share’.  The  other  brother  had  his  own  share,  the  same  
share.  That  means  ‘use of Mind’.   But  the  Archangel  never  
118 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
used   Mind   in   the   way   humans   are   using   it,   projecting   
elementals  we  call  evil,  or  ‘deaf  and  dumb  spirits’.  That  way  
human  beings  learn  lessons  leading  eventually  to  their  return   
to  Absolute  Beingness,  the  ‘Father’,  with  the  knowledge  and  
understanding to be accepted as a child of God. 
 
119 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Unjust Steward 
 
THE UNJUST STEWARD  Luke 16:1-13  
 
There   was   a   rich   man   who   had   a   bailiff   and   he      
received   complaints   that   this   man   was   squandering   his   
property.  So  he  sent  for  him,  and  said,  ‘What  is  this  that  I  
hear?  Produce  your  accounts,  for  you  cannot  be  manager  
here  any  longer.’  The  bailiff  said  to  himself,  ‘What  am  I  to   
do  now  that  my  employer  is  dismissing  me?  I  am  not  strong  
enough  to  dig,  and  too  proud  to  beg.  I  know  what  I  must  do,  
to  make  sure  that,  when  I  have  to  leave,  there  will  be  people  
to  give  me  house  and  home.’  He  summoned  his  master’s  
debtors  one  by  one.  To  the  first  he  said,  ‘How  much  do  you  
owe  my  master?’  He  replied,  ‘A  thousand  gallons  of  olive  
oil.’  He  said,  ‘Here  is  your  account.  Sit  down  and  make  it   
five   hundred;   and   be   quick   about   it.’   Then   he   said   to   
another,  ‘And  you,  how  much  do  you  owe?’  He  said,  ‘A  
thousand   bushels   of   wheat,’   and   was   told,   ‘Take   your  
account   and   make   it   eight   hundred.’   And   the   master   
applauded the dishonest bailiff for acting so astutely. For the 
worldly  are  more  astute  than  the  other-worldly  in  dealing  
with their own kind. So I say to you, use your worldly wealth 
to  win  friends  for  yourselves,  so  that  when  money  is  a  thing  
of the past you may be received into an eternal home. 
The  man  who  can  be  trusted  in  little  things  can  be  
trusted  also  in  great;  and  the  man  who  is  dishonest  in  little  
things  is  dishonest  also  in  great  things.  If  then  you  have  not  
proved  trustworthy  with  the  wealth  of  this  world,  who  will  
trust  you  with  the  wealth  that  is  real?  And  if  you  have    
proved  untrustworthy  with  what  belongs  to  another,  who  will  
give you what is your own?   
120 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
No  servant  can  be  the  slave  of  two  masters;  for  either    
he  will  hate  the  first  and  love  the  second,  or  he  will  be  
devoted  to  the  first  and  think  nothing  of  the  second.  You  
cannot serve God and Money.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
121 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Now, what is the wealth of God which we as stewards are 
wasting?   It   is   Mind.   It   is   his   ‘property’,   which   He   has   
entrusted  to  us  to  make  good  use  of.  We  abuse  it  all  the  time, 
creating  bad  elementals,  which  some  call  ‘evil’.  God  knows  it. 
He is  the  ‘master’  who  has  these ‘riches’ and  we  are  His 
stewards,  or  ‘bailiffs’  as  it  says  here.  Well,  who  accused  the 
steward  of  abusing  the  master’s  riches?  The  Archangels.  They 
are  the  ones  who  notice  - the  Archangels  of  the  elements  in  
you.  When  you  make  bad  use  all  the  time  of  Mind  as  matter,   
as  emotion  and  as  thought,  in  the  creation  of  the  wrong 
elementals, that's an abuse, isn’t it?  
In  the  face  of  such  an  accusation,  you  have  to  give  an 
account.  Definitely!  And  to  whom?    To  the  Lord  of  those 
riches,  to  Absolute  Beingness,  as  Logos.   It  is  quite  clear  that 
‘he  who  is  faithful  in  little  is  faithful  in  much.’ It’s  no  good 
saying  ‘I'm  only  stealing  a  little,  not  very  much.’ It’s  all  the 
same  whatever  you  steal.  It's  not  the  quantity;  it’s  the  dispo-
sition that counts.  
Now,  the  great  difficulty  in  this  parable  is  that  Jesus  says 
that  the  ‘master  applauded  the  dishonest  bailiff.   Why  did  he   
do  that?  I  think  it  means  that  Absolute  Beingness  says,  ‘Never 
mind,  never  mind.   You  haven't  been  faithful  to the  work  of   
the Archangels - to your integration into higher planes - which 
is  what  you  were  supposed  to  be  doing.  You  have  served  the 
Lord  of  Separation  and  his  Archangel  and  their  brother  angels 
instead.  That  was  what  you  were  serving.  All  right!  Make 
friends  with  them,  then,    and  go  on  working  in  the  lower  
planes,  if  that’s  what  you  want.  But  do  it  honestly.  Be  honest 
with them and faithful to them.’  
Jesus is telling people that they should be honest in what-   
122 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
ever  they’re  doing.  If  they  are  not  ready  for  Divine  work  and 
prefer  to  do  material  work,  at  least  be  honest  about  that.   No 
one   is   forcing   you   to   work   in   the   company   of   the   holy 
Archangels,  or  to  join  an  Archangelic  Order.  If  your  joy  is  the 
material world and that’s where you want to go on living, then 
use  your  time  there  astutely,  so  that  you  make  a  friend  of  the 
material  plane  and  its  joys.   If  you  feel  that  living  in  the 
material   plane,   with   a   material   body,   perhaps   being   a 
philanthropist  doing  good  work,  is  what  you  want  to  do,   then 
be  honest  to  the  laws  of  the  material  plane  and  it  will  accept 
you.  
‘If  you  don't  want  to  come  with  me,’  says  the  Logos,  ‘at 
least  try  to  be  accepted  by  the  lower  orders  of  work.   Nobody   
is forcing you to go higher.’   
123 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Rich Man and Lazarus 
 
THE RICH MAN AND LAZARUS  Luke 16:19-31  
 
There  was  once  a  rich  man,  who  dressed  in  purple  and  
the  finest  linen,  and  feasted  in  great  magnificence  every  day.  
At  his  gate,  covered  with  sores,  lay  a  poor  man  named  
Lazarus,   who  would  have  been  glad  to  satisfy  his  hunger  
with  the  scraps  from  the  rich  man’s  table.   Even  the  dogs  
used  to  come  and  lick  his  sores.  One  day  the  poor  man  died  
and was carried away by the angels to be with Abraham. The 
rich  man  also  died  and  was  buried,  and  in  Hades,  where  he  
was  in  torment,  he  looked  up;  and  there,  far  away,  was  
Abraham   with   Lazarus   close   beside   him.   ‘Abraham,   my   
father,’  he  called  out,  ‘take  pity  on  me!  Send  Lazarus  to  dip  
the  tip  of  his  finger  in  water,  to  cool  my  tongue,  for  I  am  in  
agony  in  this  fire.’  But  Abraham  said,  ‘Remember,  my  child,  
that  all  the  good  things  fell  to  you  while  you  were  alive,  and  
all  the  bad  to  Lazarus;   now  he  has  his  consolation  here  and  
it  is  you  who  are  in  agony.   But  that  is  not  all:  there  is  a   
great  chasm  fixed  between  us;  no  one  from  our  side  who  
wants  to  reach  you  can  cross  it,  and  none  may  pass  from   
your  side  to  us.’   ‘Then,  father,’  he  replied,   ‘will  you  send  
him to my father’s house, where I have five brothers, to warn 
them,   so  that  they  too  may  not  come  to  this  place  of  
torment?’  But  Abraham  said,  ‘They  have  Moses  and  the  
prophets;  let  them  listen  to  them.’  ‘No,  father  Abraham,’  he  
replied,  ‘but  if  someone  from  the  dead  visits  them,  they  will  
repent.’  Abraham  answered,  ‘If  they  do  not  listen  to  Moses  
and  the  prophets  they  will  pay  no  heed  even  if  someone  
should rise from the dead.’  
124 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
This  is  a  story  of  what  can  happen  in  the  psychic  world. 
Lazarus,   it  seems,   was  paying  off  his  ‘debt’  when  he  was  in 
the  material  world.  But  when  he  had  done  so  and  left  the 
material  plane,  he  had  earned  the  right  to  what  we  may  call  a 
‘paradise’.  Just  because  he  was  poor  and  in  distress  in  the 
material  world,  it  doesn’t  mean  to  say  that  he  was  not  using 
Mind  creatively.  If  you  don't  have  much  of  Mind  in  its  lowest 
form   as   matter,   it   doesn’t   mean   that   you   don't   have   it 
emotionally  and  mentally.    You  do!    It  was  Lazarus,  by  his  
own  conduct,  who  earned  his  right  to  a  paradise.  He  was 
probably  praying  a  lot,  ‘Have  mercy  on  me,  God.  Have  mercy 
on me.’  
Now,   the  rich  man  had  everything  to  enjoy  on  the  
material  plane,  but  he  didn’t  care  about  compassion  and  love. 
That  poor  man,  Lazarus,  was  sitting  just  outside  his  door, 
feeling  hungry,  longing  to  be  fed  with  the  scraps  from  the  rich 
man’s  table,    but  the  rich  man  didn’t  care.   He  only  knew  him  
as ‘that  beggar  who  sits  outside  my  door’.  He  made  himself 
hard,  by  not  seeing  the  truth.  The  truth  is  that  we  are  all 
children  of  God,  as  inner  Beings,  Souls  or  Spirits.  When  we 
pass  over,  where  we  no  longer  have  the  conditions  of  material 
life, we begin to realize what is what.  
Yes!   Passing   over   opens   the   vision   - the   vision   as 
understanding.   That  was  when  the  rich  man  saw  Lazarus  in   
the  distance  and  realized  he  was  a  son  of  Abraham,  that  they 
both  were.   He  recognized  the  despised  beggar  as  a  son  of   
God.   But  their  condition  in  the  psychic  world  was  as  a  result  
of  the  Law  of  Cause  and  Effect.  The  rich  man  was  there,  in 
Hades,  till  he  understood,  which  is  the  meaning  of  ‘paying  his 
debt’.   The  ‘  fire’,  and  the  ‘torment’,  means   the   stings   of   
 
125 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
conscience.  The ‘water’  which  he  begged  for  means  truth  and  
when  he  asked  for  it  to  be  put  on  his  ‘tongue’,    that  meant  in  
his   understanding.   But   it   couldn’t   be   done.    Of   course,  
Abraham  or  Lazarus  could  have  gone  to  where  the  rich  man  
was,  but  in  the  state  he  was  then  in,  it  wouldn't  have  been  any  
help  to  him.  He  had  to  realize  and  understand  the  Truth  for  
himself.  The  stings  of  conscience  (the  ‘flames  of  hell’)  were  
what  he  had  himself  chosen  to  teach  him  the  Truth.   Some-
times  you  have  stings  of  conscience  in  the  material  world  and  
if  you  make  good  use  of  them,   then  you’ll  avoid  having  to  
have  them  on  the  other  side.  But  if  you  don't  have  them  here,  
then you’ll have them there. Until you understand the Truth. 
Of course, it doesn’t mean that every rich man that passes 
over will find himself in the flames of hell! 
The  invisible  helpers  in  the  psychic  world,  those  who  are  
very  advanced,  can  visit  any  hell  or  paradise,  to  be  of  some 
help.  They  do  not  experience  any  gap  or  chasm  in  going  from  
the  earth  state  to  the  other  state.   But  they  know  there’s  a  
terrible  gap  between  hells  and  paradises.  You  can’t  just  take  
someone out of his hell and move him into a higher sub-plane, 
unless  you  have  first  persuaded  that  person  to  accept  being  
moved.   You   have   to   use   comparison.   Show   that   person   
something  better,  but  even  then  he  may  not  accept  it.  It’s  not  
easy  to  take  someone  away  from  old  habits.  Only  the  one  who  
deserves it can move himself from one sub-plane to another.  
This  parable  is  teaching  us  that  we  must  make  good  use   
of  Mind  and  do  our  best  to  see  the  Truth  while  we  are  in  the  
material world - or face the consequences!  
126 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
127 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Unjust Judge and the Persistent Widow 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE UNJUST JUDGE AND THE  
PERSISTENT WIDOW  Luke 18:1-8   
 
He  spoke  to  them  in  a  parable  to  show  that  they  should  
keep  on  praying  and  never  lose  heart:  ‘There  was  once  a  
judge  who  cared  nothing  for  God  or  man,  and  in  the  same  
town  there  was  a  widow  who  constantly  came  before  him  
demanding  justice  against  her  opponent.  For  a  long  time  he  
refused;  but  in  the  end  he  said  to  himself,  “True,  I  care  
nothing  for  God  or  man;   but  this  widow  is  so  great  a  
nuisance  that  I  will  see  her  righted  before  she  wears  me  out  
with  her  persistence.”’  The  Lord  said,  ‘You  hear  what  the  
unjust  judge  says;   and  will  not  God  vindicate  his  chosen,   
who  cry  out  to  him  day  and  night,   while  he  listens  patiently   
to  them?  I  tell  you,  he  will  vindicate  them  soon  enough.  But  
when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?’ 
 
128 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
Now,   who   is   this   lady,   this ‘persistent   widow’?   The   
present-day  personality.  And  who  is  the  ‘unjust  judge’?  The  
Law  of  Order  in  the  material  world.  Jesus  is  not  speaking  of  
God,   of   course,   of   the   justice   of   God.   The   present-day 
personality  is  asking  and  asking  and  asking   -     so  much  that  
even  the  unjust  judge  is  upset  and  decides  that  he’s  had    
enough  of  this  disturbance  and  will  do  what  she  asks.  ‘So,  if  
even  this  unjust  judge  will  do  it,  don't  you  think  your  Father,  
who  loves  you,  will  do  what  you  ask  Him  to  do?’  The  law  in  
the  world  of  separation  is  different  from  the  Divine  Law.   
That’s  the  integration  of  Mercy  and  Love.  Here  we  have  the  
Law  of  Cause  and  Effect.    If  you  desire  this  or  that  as  a   
present-day  personality,  and  go  on  asking,  sooner  or  later  you  
will  get  it,  as  I've  told  you  before.   What  did  I  say?   Every   
wish  and  desire,  reasonable  or  unreasonable,  will  be  fulfilled.  
That  is  the  law  we  have  from  the  unjust  judge.  If  that’s  what  
you  get  on  the  material  plane  and  the  psychic  plane,  surely    
you  can  expect  the  same  or  much  better  treatment  from  your  
heavenly  Father,  who  loves  you?  I  think  Jesus  told  this  story  
just to make people have confidence in the Lord.  
The  last  sentence  of  this  parable  (‘But  when  the  Son  of  
Man  comes,  will  be  find  faith  on  earth?’)    is  strange  and  
doesn't  seem  to  fit  in.  Of  course  it  does  not.  There  was  
something  in  between,  which  - I  don't  know  for  what  reason  - 
was taken out by some writer. It is not the only instance in the 
New  Testament,  in  the  Greek  and  in  other  texts.  There  is  no  
connection   between   the   parable   and   this   other   saying   of      
Christ.    They   have   taken   away   something.   It   must   be    
something  most  important.  Why  they  have  taken  it  out,  only  
God knows!  
129 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Pharisee and the Publican 
 
 
 
 
 
THE PHARISEE AND THE PUBLICAN  Luke 18: 9-14  
 
And  here  is  another  parable  that  he  told.   It  was  aimed   
at  those  who  were  sure  of  their  own  goodness  and  looked  
down on everyone else.  
Two  men  went  up  to  the  temple  to  pray,  one  a  Pharisee  
and  the  other  a  tax-gatherer.  The  Pharisee  stood  up  and  
prayed  thus:   ‘I  thank  thee,   O  God,    that  I  am  not  like  the  
rest  of  men,  greedy,  dishonest,  adulterous;    or,  for  that  
matter,   like  this  tax-gatherer.   I  fast  twice  a  week;   I  pay   
tithes  on  all  that  I  get.’ But  the  other  kept  his  distance  and  
would  not  even  raise  his  eyes  to  heaven,  but  beat  upon  his  
breast,  saying,  ‘O  God,  have  mercy  on  me,  sinner  that  I  am.’ 
It was this man, I tell you, and not the other, who went home 
acquitted of his sins. For everyone who exalts himself will be 
humbled; and whosoever humbles himself will be exalted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Note:  This  is  the  traditional  name  for  the  parable,  based  on  the  
translation of ‘tax-gatherer’ as ‘publican’ in the King James Version.)  
  
130 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
This  is  another  parable  about  egoism,  telling  people  not   
to  be  proud  of  themselves.    It’s  like  the  one  about  going  to  a  
feast  and  sitting  in  the  high-up  places.    The  Pharisee  thinks  
he’s very good and is proud of all the ‘right’ things he does. ‘I 
am  righteous,’  he  says,    ‘I  am  just.  I  do  that  and  that.   So,  I  
have  no  need  of  You,  God!’  He’s  very  satisfied  with  himself,  
because he considers himself as better than others.  
The  other  man  is  a  tax-collector.  These  were  men  who  
were  hated  by  their  own  people,  who  were  often  greedy  and  
who  made  money  out  of  their  compatriots,  working  for  the  
occupying  forces.  The  Jews  called  them  ‘sinners’,  which  was  
why  the  Pharisee  despised  him.  But  this  tax-collector  knew  
what    he    was    doing   and   understood   his   faults,   his   
transgression.  So  he  says,    ‘Forgive  me!   I  am  a  tax-collector.    
I  do  that  and  that    and  maybe  sometimes  I  overdo  it.    I’m  
sorry.’   And   only   in   that   way   does   he   come   to   feel   real   
satisfaction  and  to  be  forgiven.   He’s  not  arrogant,   you  see,  
he’s  not  self-satisfied.  He  has  realized  what  he  is  doing  wrong  
and  is  calling  on  God  to  have  mercy  on  him.   Jesus  is  telling   
the  Pharisees  and  all  the  others  who  despise  their  fellow   
human  beings  that  they'd  better  be  careful  and  not  be  so  sure  
about  their  own  goodness  and  status.  They  must  learn  to  be  
humble.  Only  then  can  they  be  forgiven  and  raised  up  to  their  
proper place.  
131 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Marriage at Cana 
 
 
 
 
THE MARRIAGE AT CANA  John 2:1-11  
 
On  the  third  day  there  was  a  wedding  at  Cana-in- 
Galilee.  The  mother  of  Jesus  was  there,  and  Jesus  and  his  
disciples  were  guests  also.  The  wine  gave  out,  so  Jesus’  
mother  said  to  him,  ‘They  have  no  wine  left.’  He  answered,  
‘Your  concern,  mother,  is  not  mine.  My  hour  has  not  yet  
come.’  His  mother  said  to  the  servants,  ‘Do  whatever  he  tells  
you.’  There  were  six  stone  water-jars  standing  near,  of  the  
kind  used  for  Jewish  rites  of  purification;  each  held  from  
twenty  to  thirty  gallons  (lit:   two  or  three  measures).  Jesus  
said  to  the  servants,  ‘Fill  the  jars  with  water,’  and  they  filled 
them  to  the  brim.  ‘Now  draw  some  off,’   he  ordered,   ‘and  
take  it  to  the  steward  of  the  feast’;  and  they  did  so.  The  
steward  tasted  the  water  now  turned  into  wine,   not  knowing  
its  source;  though  the  servants  who  had  drawn  the  water  
knew.  He  hailed  the  bridegroom  and  said,  ‘Everyone  serves  
the  best  wine  first,  and  waits  until  the  guests  have  drunk  
freely  before  serving  the  poorer  sort;  but  you  have  kept  the  
best wine till now.’  
132 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
This  is  not  really  a  parable,  it  describes  an  event.   But  it  
has the   value   of   a   parable.   The ‘water’ is   the   formless   
supersubstance  Mind.  Clean  water  is  Divine  and  good.  By  
turning  it  into  wine,  you  don’t  make  it  something  better,  but  it  
becomes  something  which  can  be  used  to  better  effect  by  
human  beings.  So  what  is  the  ‘wine’?  It  is  reason.  It  is  the  
transforming  of  Mind  supersubstance  into  reasoning  and  right-
thinking.  What  was  the  setting  for  this  act  of  Jesus?  The 
‘wedding-feast’,    at  which  many  people  are  present,   so  that  
they  can  all  drink  of  the  ‘wine’:  Mind  made  reason.  The  Lord  
took   pure   ‘water’,   Mind,   and   turned   it   into   ‘wine’,   right   
thought, reason, for human beings to use.  
When  Jesus  told  his  mother  that    ‘her  concern  was  not  
his’, He was saying that it was not for Him to tell people to fill 
themselves  with  the  formless  supersubstance  of  Mind.    That 
was  something  they  must  do  for  themselves.  The  full  meaning  
of  ‘My  hour  is   not  yet  come’  is  difficult,  but  in  a good 
meditation,   you  can  get  it.   In  the  story  of  the  event,   there  is  
the  meaning  that  Jesus’  ‘hour’,  His  task,  was  to  turn  the  water  
into  wine  when  the  pots  had  been  filled.  The  servants  drew  
some  of  the  water  off,  without  realizing  what  had  happened.  
Only  when  the  guests  tasted  that  ‘water’  did  they  understand  
that  it  had  become ‘wine’.    That  means  that  when  the  people  
use  the  supersubstance  Mind  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  
of  Jesus,  they  will  taste  the  perfect  ‘wine’ of  reason,   better  
than any that has gone before.   
133 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
The Good Shepherd 
 
THE GOOD SHEPHERD  John 10:1-16  
 
In  truth  I  tell  you,  in  very  truth,  the  man  who  does  not  
enter  the  sheepfold  by  the  door,  but  climbs  in  some  other    
way,  is  nothing  but  a  thief  or  a  robber.  The  man  who  enters   
by the door is the shepherd in charge of the sheep. The door-
keeper  admits  him,  and  the  sheep  hear  his  voice;  he  calls  his  
own  sheep  by  name,  and  leads  them  out.  When  he  has  
brought  them  all  out,  he  goes  ahead  and  the  sheep  follow,  
because they know his voice. They will not follow a stranger; 
they  will  run  away  from  him,  because  they  do  not  recognize  
the voice of strangers.  
This was a parable that Jesus told them, but they did not 
understand what he meant by it.  
So Jesus spoke again. In truth, in very truth I tell you, I 
am  the  door  of  the  sheepfold.  The  sheep  paid  no  heed  to      
any  who  came  before  me,  for  these  were  all  thieves  and  
robbers.  I  am  the  door;  anyone  who  comes  into  the  field  
through  me  shall  be  safe.  He  shall  go  in  and  out  and  find  
pasturage.  
The  thief  comes  only  to  steal,  to  kill,  to  destroy;  I  have  
come  that  men  may  have  life,  and  may  have  it  in  all  its  
fullness.  I  am  the  good  shepherd;  the  good  shepherd  lays  
down  his  life  for  the  sheep.  The  hireling,  when  he  sees  the  
wolf  coming,  abandons  the  sheep  and  runs  away,  because  he  
is  no  shepherd  and  the  sheep  are  not  his.  Then  the  wolf  
harries  the  flock  and  scatters  the  sheep.  The  man  runs  away  
because he is a hireling and cares nothing for the sheep.  
I am the good shepherd; I know my sheep and my sheep  
134 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
 
 
know  me  - as  the  Father  knows  me  and  I  know  the  Father  - 
and  I  lay  down  my  life  for  the  sheep.  But  there  are  other  
sheep of mine, not belonging to this fold, whom I must bring 
in;  and  they  too  will  listen  to  my  voice.  There  will  then  be   
one flock and one shepherd.  
135 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
When  He  speaks  about  the ‘other  sheep  which  are  not  of 
this  fold’  this  is  promising.  He  means  all  the  world,  apart     
from the Jews.  
Now,  He  speaks  here  about  false  prophets.  There  were  
good  prophets,  of  course,  in  Israel,  speaking  on  behalf  of  God  
through  the  Holy  Spirit.  But  false  prophets  also  came  who  
misled  the  people,  not  caring  about  them,  but  only  about  
accomplishing  their  own  egoistic  ambitions  as  leaders  in  war,  
leaders  in  attacking  the  other  tribes  and  other  nations.  Many  
false  leaders  arose  in  Israel.  He  says  here,  ‘these  are  the    
wolves  jumping  in  at  the  windows,  not  coming  through  the  
door,’  that  means  coming  properly  through  the  voice  of  God,  
through  the  Will  of  God.  He  calls  himself  the  ‘door’,  the  gate.  
As  he  says,  the  fellow  who  comes  in  some  other  way  howls   
like  a  wolf  and  of  course  the  sheep  will  not  follow  him.      But 
the  sheep  hear  the  voice  of  the  shepherd.  They  recognise  the  
good  prophet  to  be  a  shepherd.  They  follow  him,  to  take  them  
to  the  pasture,  as  it  says  here.  So,  he  shows  here  that  to  be  
followed one  should  use  a  voice  which  is  known  to  the  others,  
with  the  words  of  kindness  and  love.  They  will  follow  such  a  
man.  That’s what  He  meant.  They  know  his  voice.  And  of  
course,  the  gentiles  and  the  others,  after  the  crucifixion  of  
Christ,  when  the  Apostles went  to  preach  the  Gospel,  some  of  
those  hearing  about  love,  compassion  and  mercy,  recognised  
that  voice  of  love,  though  they  were  strangers  to  the  teachings  
of  Christ.  He  had  been  crucified  in  the  mean-time.  They  
followed   them,   because   they   heard   the   voice   of   a   good   
shepherd. Call him Peter, call him Paul, call him Jesus, call him 
any name you like.  
So      the    Apostles,      after      the    crucifixion,    speaking,  
 
  
136 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
preaching,  presented the  church  as  the  Good  Shepherd  using  
the   voice  of  God,  which  would  be  recognized  by  the  sheep,   
and  followed  by  them.  Of  course,  if  the  shepherd  were  to    
speak  about  love  to  the  ‘wolves’  they  would  just  howl  and  run  
away,  or  attack.  But  the  sheep  will  follow  such  a  voice.   
Leaders  of  other  faiths  who  are  preaching the  word  of  God,   
also  speak  about  love,  compassion  and  mercy.  Jesus  says,  ‘I 
have  a  lot  of  these  sheepfolds.’  He  meant  the  other  tribes,  the  
other nations, whose teachers speak his own words -   the words 
of  love  and  compassion.  But  those  who  do  not  speak  of  love  
and  compassion  are  the  ‘wolves’.  How  many  leaders  have   
come   to   all   nations,   not   only   to   the   Jews,   speaking,      
influencing  them  for  a  time,  towards  war,  towards  killing?  
Hitler,  for  example.  But  the  ‘sheep’  could  not  follow  Hitler.  
Only the other ‘wolves’ could follow him.  
This is not so much a parable, as a statement; parable and 
statement.  Now,  what  is  Jesus?  What  is  Christ?  St  John  the  
Evangelist,  the  beloved  one,  who  knew  best  about  everything,  
describing  the  Logos,  in  the  first  few  phrases  at  the  beginning  
of  his  Gospel,  says ‘the  Logos  is  the  light  which  lighteth     
every human being coming to the world’ -   every human being. 
Every  human  being  is  a  sheep  in  His  fold.  Now,  what  is  this 
‘light   which   lighteth   every   human   being   coming   to   the      
world’?  Reason  and  self-awareness.  So  every  human  being  
expresses   a   self-consciousness,   self-awareness,   and   he   can   
slowly,  slowly  learn  to  use  the  Mind  as  reason.  Jesus  said    
there  are  other  ‘sheep’  -   that  means  human  beings  - who  are  
His,  but  not  of  this  fold,  who  are  not  called  Christians;  they  
belong  to  other  religions,  other  beliefs.  Yet  they  are  His.  That  
means  they  express  a self-consciousness. In the course of time 
 
137 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
they  will  use  reason.  All  those  too  will  hear  His  voice,  hear  
reason,  and  follow  Him  in  the  end.  And  all  will  come  to  the   
fold   and   become   ‘one   fold   and   one   shepherd’.   So   every       
human  being  expresses  the  Logos  as  his  self-consciousness   
and  reason.  No  matter  that  now  he  may  belong  to  other  
denominations  and  religious  beliefs  or  systems,  sooner  or  later  
he  will  use  his  reason  and  will  hear  the  teaching  of  Christ,  
which  is  what?  Love  towards  all.  A  Doctor  of  Philosophy    
came  to  me,  who  was a  Buddhist.  He  had  read  the  Bible  and  
studied  the  New  Testament  - maybe  far  better  than  many  
Christians  have  done.  The  only  thing  he  disagreed  with,  he    
told  me,  was  when  Jesus  said  ‘No  man  cometh  to  the  Father    
but  by  me.’  Did  that  mean  that  unless  the Buddhists,  the   
Hindus,  the  Moslems  and  the  aborigine  animists  embraced  
Christianity,  they  could  not  approach  God?  I  told  him  that  
everyone,  every  human  being,  is  already  a  ‘Christian’  in  the  
sense  that  they  have  within  them  the  'light  that  lighteth  every 
man  that  cometh  into  the  world’.  Everyone  expressing  his   
Christ    Nature    is    a    ‘Christian’,    so    Buddhists    may    be     
‘Christians’,  Moslems  may  be  ‘Christians’  and  even  idolaters  
may  be  ‘Christians’,  if  they  are  expressing  a  form  of  self-
awareness.  Many  of  those calling  themselves  Christians  may  
not  in  reality  be  so.  It  is  the  characteristics  of  a  person  which  
count  and  not  the  labels.  What’s  Christianity?  What’s  the  
teaching  of  Christ?  Acknowledging  the  Absolute  Beingness   
and  loving  It.  Loving  with  all  your  heart,  your  soul  and  your  
power.   And   Jesus   continues,   ‘Love   your   neighbour   as    
yourself.’  So  it’s  love;  nothing  but  love.  Every  man,  sooner  or  
later,  who  is  using  Mind  as  reason  will  reach  this  point  -  that 
life  is  love.  One  must  love.  And  those  who  hear  the  teaching   
of love will come to the fold. That’s  what Christ means.  
 
138 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

The Parables 
Stylianos Atteshlis 
 
 
So,  though  people  may  not  call  themselves  Christians   
now,  they  still  belong  to  the  fold  of  the  Good  Shepherd,  who  
teaches love to all. 
  
139 
© Copyright Panayiota Atteshlis Theotoki 

 
 
 
 
 
 